issued or pending for TRPV2 antagonists WO2019054891 - Instituto de Medicina 
Molecular (PT), Hydrogel Particles, Compositions, and Methods- WO US 
US20170333304A1 - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (USA), and Theranostic 
nanoprobes for overcoming cancer multidrug resistance and methods- WO US 
WO2016134232A1 - Massachusetts Institute Of Technology (USA), all outside the 
submitted work. Irina Filip reports payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers' bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from 
Avicenna Medical and Clinical Research Institute. Claudiu Herteliu reports 
grants or contracts from Romanian National Authority for scientific research and 
innovation, CNDS-UEFISCDI, project number PN-III-P4-ID-PCCF-2016-0084, research 
grant (October, 2018, to September, 2022), understanding and modelling 
time–space patterns of psychology-related inequalities and polarisation, and 
project number PN-III-P2-2.1-SOL-2020-2-0351, research grant (June, 2021, to 
October, 2021), approaches within public health management in the context of 
COVID-19 pandemic, and from the Ministry of Labour and Social Justice Romania, 
project number 30/PSCD/2018, research grant (September, 2018 to June, 2019), 
agenda for skills Romania 2020–25, all outside the submitted work. Sheikh 
Mohammed Shariful Islam reports grants or contracts from National Health and 
Medical Research Council (NHMRC) and National Heart Foundation of Australia 
Fellowships, outside the submitted work. Jacek Jerzy Jozwiak reports payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers' bureaus, manuscript writing, or 
educational events from Teva, Amgen, Synexus, Boehringer Ingelheim, ALAB 
Laboratories, and Zentiva, all outside the submitted work. Nicholas J Kassebaum 
reports support for the present manuscript from the Bill & Melinda Gates 
Foundation as grant funding for the GBD. Kewal Krishan reports non-financial 
support from UGC Centre of Advanced Study, CAS II, Department of Anthropology, 
Panjab University, Chandigarh, India, outside the submitted work. Morteza 
Mahmoudi reports payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers' 
bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events for his published books, 
plenary lectures, and licensed patent to Seer; leadership or fiduciary role in 
other board, society, committee or advocacy group, paid or unpaid with the 
Academic Parity Movement, a non-profit organisation dedicated to addressing 
academic discrimination, violence, and incivility, as a cofounder, all outside 
the submitted work. Shuhei Nomura reports support for the present manuscript 
from Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan 
(MEXT) as grant funding. Adrian Pana reports grants or contracts from Romanian 
National Authority for Scientific Research and Innovation, CNDS-UEFISCDI, 
project number PN-III-P4-ID-PCCF-2016-0084, research grant (October, 2018, to 
September, 2022), understanding and modelling time-space patterns of 
psychology-related inequalities and polarisation, and project number 
PN-III-P2-2.1-SOL-2020-2-0351, research grant (June, 2021, to October, 2021), 
approaches within public health management in the context of COVID-19 pandemic, 
all outside the submitted work. Seithikurippu R Pandi-Perumal reports payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers' bureaus, manuscript writing, or 
educational events for the volumes he edited; leadership or fiduciary role in 
other board, society, committee, or advocacy group, paid or unpaid, with 
Somnogen Canada, Toronto, Canada, as the President and Chief Executive Officer, 
all outside the submitted work. Thomas Pilgrim reports grants or contracts from 
Biotronik, Boston Scientific, and Edwards Lifesciences; payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers' bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational 
events from Biotronik, Boston Scientific, and HighLifeSAS; and being proctor for 
Medtronic and Boston Scientific, all outside the submitted work. Maarten J 
Postma reports grants or contacts from Merck, Sharp & Dohme, GlaxoSmithKline, 
Pfizer, Boehringer Ingelheim, Novavax, Bayer, Bristol Myers Squibb, AstraZeneca, 
Sanofi, IQVIA, BioMerieux, WHO, EU, Seqirus, FIND, Antilope, DIKTI, LPDP, and 
Budi; consulting fees from Merck, Sharp & Dohme, GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Novavax, Quintiles, Bristol Myers Squibb, AstraZeneca, 
Sanofi, Novartis, Pharmerit, IQVIA, and Seqirus; participation on a data safety 
monitoring board or advisory board to Asc Academics as adviser; stock or stock 
options in Health-Ecore and PAG, all outside the submitted work. Amir Radfar 
reports payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers' bureaus, 
manuscript writing, or educational events from Avicenna Medical and Clinical 
Research Institute. Jasvinder A Singh reports consulting fees from 
Crealta/Horizon, Medisys, Fidia, Two labs, Adept Field Solutions, Clinical Care 
options, Clearview health-care partners, Putnam associates, Focus forward, 
Navigant consulting, Spherix, MedIQ, UBM, Trio Health, Medscape, WebMD, and 
Practice Point communications, and the National Institutes of Health and the 
American College of Rheumatology; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers' bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from 
Simply Speaking; support for attending meetings and travel from OMERACT, an 
international organisation that develops measures for clinical trials and 
receives arm's length funding from 12 pharmaceutical companies, when travelling 
biannually to OMERACT meetings; leadership or fiduciary role in other board, 
society, committee, or advocacy group, paid or unpaid, with OMERACT as a member 
of the steering committee, with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
Arthritis Advisory Committee, with the Veterans Affairs Rheumatology Field 
Advisory Committee as a member, and with the UAB Cochrane Musculoskeletal Group 
Satellite Center on Network Meta-analysis as a director and editor; stock or 
stock options in TPT Global Tech, Vaxart pharmaceuticals, Charlotte's Web 
Holdings, and previously owned stock options in Amarin, Viking, and Moderna 
pharmaceuticals, all outside the submitted work. Mark A Stokes reports payment 
or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers' bureaus, manuscript writing, 
or educational events at the Autism Teaching Institute (Victoria, Australia); 
unpaid participation on a data safety monitoring board or advisory board with 
the Deakin University Human Research Ethics Committee; leadership or fiduciary 
role in other board, society, committee, or advocacy group, paid or unpaid, with 
the Australasian Society for Autism Research as a past president, with the 
Australasian Society for Autism Research as a board member, with Kidsafe 
(Victoria, Australia) as vice president, with Mindful as a member of the 
research advisory board, and with Autism Teaching Institute as chair of the 
research advisory board; stock or stock options in Cochlear and Medical 
Developments, all outside the submitted work. Stefan Stortecky reports grants or 
contracts to their institute from Edwards Lifesciences, Medtronic, Boston 
Scientific, and Abbott; consulting fees from BTG and Teleflex; payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers' bureaus, manuscript writing, or 
educational events from BTG and Boston Scientific; support for attending 
meetings and/or travel from BTG, all outside the submitted work. Carolyn B Swope 
reports support for the present manuscript from Delos Living as a former 
employee; and consulting fees from Delos Living, outside the submitted work. 
Riaz Uddin reports grants or contracts from Alfred Deakin Postdoctoral Research 
Fellowship, Deakin University, Australia; support for attending meetings and/or 
travel from Deakin University Institute for Physical Activity and Nutrition, all 
outside the submitted work.


546. Exp Gerontol. 2021 Oct 15;154:111519. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2021.111519. Epub
 2021 Aug 17.

Prolonged caloric restriction ameliorates age-related atrophy in slow and fast 
muscle fibers of rat soleus muscle.

Mizunoe Y(1), Kobayashi M(2), Saito H(2), Goto A(2), Migitaka R(2), Miura K(2), 
Okita N(3), Sudo Y(2), Tagawa R(2), Yoshida M(2), Umemori A(2), Nakagawa Y(4), 
Shimano H(5), Higami Y(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine (Endocrinology and Metabolism), Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Pathology & Metabolic Disease, Faculty of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tokyo University of Science, Chiba, Japan.
(3)Division of Pathological Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Sanyo-Onoda City University, Sanyo-onoda, Yamaguchi, Japan.
(4)Division of Complex Biosystem Research, Department of Research and 
Development, Institute of Natural Medicine, University of Toyama, Toyama, Japan; 
International Institute for Integrative Sleep Medicine (WPI-IIIS), University of 
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine (Endocrinology and Metabolism), Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan; International Institute for 
Integrative Sleep Medicine (WPI-IIIS), University of Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; 
Life Science Center for Survival Dynamics, Tsukuba Advanced Research Alliance 
(TARA), University of Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan; Japan Agency for Medical Research 
and Development-Core Research for Evolutional Science and Technology 
(AMED-CREST), Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Laboratory of Molecular Pathology & Metabolic Disease, Faculty of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tokyo University of Science, Chiba, Japan. Electronic 
address: higami@rs.tus.ac.jp.

Aging causes loss of skeletal muscle mass and function, which is called 
sarcopenia. While sarcopenia impairs the quality of life of older adults and is 
a major factor in long-term hospitalization, its detailed pathogenic mechanism 
and preventive measures remain to be identified. Caloric restriction (CR) 
suppresses age-related physiological and pathological changes in many species 
and prolongs the average and healthy life expectancy. It has recently been 
reported that CR suppresses the onset of sarcopenia; however, few studies have 
analyzed the effects of long-term CR on age-related skeletal muscle atrophy. 
Thus, we investigated the aging and CR effects on soleus (SOL) muscles of 9-, 
24-, and 29-month-old ad libitum-fed rats (9AL, 24AL, and 29AL, respectively) 
and of 29-month-old CR (29CR) rats. The total muscle cross sectional area (mCSA) 
of the entire SOL muscle significantly decreased in the 29AL rats, but not in 
the 24AL rats, compared with the 9AL rats. SOL muscle of the 29AL rats exhibited 
marked muscle fiber atrophy and increases in the number of muscle fibers with a 
central nucleus, in fibrosis, and in adipocyte infiltration. Additionally, 
although the decrease in the single muscle fiber cross-sectional area (fCSA) and 
the muscle fibers' number occurred in both slow-type and fast-type muscle 
fibers, the degree of atrophy was more remarkable in the fast-type fibers. 
However, CR suppressed the muscle fiber atrophy observed in the 29AL rats' SOL 
muscle by preserving the mCSA and the number of muscle fibers that declined with 
aging, and by decreasing the number of muscle fibers with a central nucleus, 
fibrosis and denervated muscle fibers. Overall, these results revealed that 
advanced aging separately reduces the number and fCSA of each muscle fiber type, 
but long-term CR can ameliorate this age-related sarcopenic muscle atrophy.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2021.111519
PMID: 34416335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Med Decis Making. 2022 May;42(4):450-460. doi: 10.1177/0272989X211037921.
Epub  2021 Aug 20.

Personalization of Medical Treatment Decisions: Simplifying Complex Models while 
Maintaining Patient Health Outcomes.

Weyant C(1), Brandeau ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Management Science and Engineering, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Personalizing medical treatments based on patient-specific risks and 
preferences can improve patient health. However, models to support personalized 
treatment decisions are often complex and difficult to interpret, limiting their 
clinical application.
METHODS: We present a new method, using machine learning to create meta-models, 
for simplifying complex models for personalizing medical treatment decisions. We 
consider simple interpretable models, interpretable ensemble models, and 
noninterpretable ensemble models. We use variable selection with a penalty for 
patient-specific risks and/or preferences that are difficult, risky, or costly 
to obtain. We interpret the meta-models to the extent permitted by their model 
architectures. We illustrate our method by applying it to simplify a previously 
developed model for personalized selection of antipsychotic drugs for patients 
with schizophrenia.
RESULTS: The best simplified interpretable, interpretable ensemble, and 
noninterpretable ensemble models contained at most half the number of 
patient-specific risks and preferences compared with the original model. The 
simplified models achieved 60.5% (95% credible interval [crI]: 55.2-65.4), 60.8% 
(95% crI: 55.5-65.7), and 83.8% (95% crI: 80.8-86.6), respectively, of the net 
health benefit of the original model (quality-adjusted life-years gained). 
Important variables in all models were similar and made intuitive sense. 
Computation time for the meta-models was orders of magnitude less than for the 
original model.
LIMITATIONS: The simplified models share the limitations of the original model 
(e.g., potential biases).
CONCLUSIONS: Our meta-modeling method is disease- and model- agnostic and can be 
used to simplify complex models for personalization, allowing for variable 
selection in addition to improved model interpretability and computational 
performance. Simplified models may be more likely to be adopted in clinical 
settings and can help improve equity in patient outcomes.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X211037921
PMCID: PMC8858337
PMID: 34416832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2021 Oct;44(8):1243-1248. doi: 10.1016/j.jfo.2021.04.003.
Epub  2021 Aug 18.

[Oral chemotherapy (sonigegib) of extensive basal cell carcinoma, about 4 
cases].

[Article in French]

Colné J(1), Angioi-Duprez K(2), Granelle F(3), Maalouf T(2).

Author information:
(1)Département d'ophtalmologie, CHRU Nancy, 25, rue Lionnois, 54000 Nancy, 
France. Electronic address: julie_colne@hotmail.com.
(2)Département d'ophtalmologie, CHRU Nancy, 25, rue Lionnois, 54000 Nancy, 
France.
(3)Département de dermatologie, CHRU Nancy, 25, rue Lionnois, 54000 Nancy, 
France.

Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most frequent cutaneous carcinoma. Its 
incidence is constantly increasing, primarily due to sun exposure during the two 
first decades of life. The lower lid and medial canthus are the most common 
locations. In the majority of cases, surgery with sufficient margins is the 
first-line treatment. In the case of inoperable tumors (extensive lesions, poor 
general health, high surgical morbidity, unacceptable cosmetic sequelae), oral 
chemotherapy can be suggested. We report the follow-up of 4 patients with 
advanced non-metastatic basal cell carcinoma (BCC) treated with oral 
chemotherapy (sonigegib). All patients were female with a mean age of 80years. 
The first patient had an infiltrative BCC of the right lower lid with orbital 
invasion, the second a nodular BCC of the right inferior lid with massive 
cutaneous and orbital invasion extending to the controlateral medial canthal 
angle, the third an advanced infiltrative BCC invading both orbits and nasal 
cavities, and the fourth, an infiltrative BCC with extension to the ipsilateral 
skin of the face. The diagnosis of BCC was confirmed by multiple biopsies in our 
four patients prior to starting chemotherapy. Because of the locally advanced 
lesions, surgery was contraindicated in all cases, chemotherapy was undertaken 
(sonidegib 200mg daily), and ophthalmological and dermatological examinations 
were performed every 3months. In all 4 patients, the outcome was very favorable, 
with one clear regression in tumor size and infiltration and 3 partial 
regressions. Many side effects were noted, including nausea, muscle cramping, 
dysgeusia resulting in significant weight loss, and malnutrition in the elderly 
patients. The treatment had to be discontinued after 11months in the patient 
with total macroscopic regression because of major side effects. The treatment 
is still underway for the other patients and will be continued as long as a 
clinical benefit is observed. The treatment will be discontinued if intolerable 
side effects develop. Oral chemotherapy (sonidegib) is an effective alternative 
treatment when surgery cannot be realized, especially in the case of extensive 
infiltrative non-metastatic BCC.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfo.2021.04.003
PMID: 34417062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Semergen. 2021 Oct;47(7):472-481. doi: 10.1016/j.semerg.2021.06.008. Epub
2021  Aug 18.

[Update on Duchenne muscular dystrophy].

[Article in Spanish]

Leiva-Cepas F(1), Montaño Martínez A(2), López-López I(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ciencias Morfológicas, Sección de Histología, Facultad de 
Medicina y Enfermería, Universidad de Córdoba, Córdoba, España; Unidad de 
Gestión Clínica de Anatomía Patológica, Hospital Universitario Reina Sofía, 
Córdoba, España; Grupo de Investigación en Regeneración Muscular (REGMUS), 
Código PAIDI: CTS-285, Córdoba, España; Grupo GC-12 de Investigación 
Epidemiológica en Atención Primaria, Instituto Maimónides de Investigación 
Biomédica de Córdoba, Córdoba, España. Electronic address: 
fleivacepas@gmail.com.
(2)Hospital de Montilla, Empresa Pública Hospital Alto Guadalquivir, Montilla, 
Córdoba, España.
(3)Servicio de Nefrología. Hospital Universitario Reina Sofía, Córdoba, España.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy, DMD*(ICD-9-C: 359.1; ICD-10-ES: G71.01, ORPHA: 
98896) is a dystrophic type, autosomal recessive myopathy linked to the X 
chromosome, low incidence 1/3300, with full penetrance and multi-organ 
involvement (neuro-muscular, respiratory, digestive and metabolic). It has great 
clinical variability. Symptoms begin in pediatric age (mobility limitation and 
early respiratory complications). Respiratory complications reduce the life 
expectancy of those affected. There is no treatment that modifies its evolution, 
although corticosteroids and new gene therapies are increasing the half-life of 
this disease. The role of the Primary Care Physician (PCP) is decisive in the 
monitoring and control of the complications of DMD, either coordinating the 
different specialties involved in it.

Copyright © 2021 Sociedad Española de Médicos de Atención Primaria (SEMERGEN). 
Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semerg.2021.06.008
PMID: 34417099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. J Neurosci. 2021 Sep 29;41(39):8134-8149. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1930-20.2021.  Epub 2021 Aug 20.

Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC) Inactivation Increases Neuronal Network 
Activity by Enhancing Ca(2+) Influx via L-Type Ca(2+) Channels.

Hisatsune C(1), Shimada T(2), Miyamoto A(3), Lee A(4), Yamagata K(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Synaptic Plasticity, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical 
Science, Tokyo, 156-8506, Japan hisatsune-ch@igakuken.or.jp 
yamagata-kn@igakuken.or.jp.
(2)Laboratory of Synaptic Plasticity, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical 
Science, Tokyo, 156-8506, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Single-Molecule Cell Biology, Kyoto University Graduate School 
of Biostudies, Kyoto, 606-8501, Japan.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, University of Texas-Austin, Austin, Texas 
78712-0805.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Takada Nishishiro Hospital, Niigata, 943-0834, 
Japan.

Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a multisystem developmental disorder 
characterized by hamartomas in various organs, such as the brain, lungs, and 
kidneys. Epilepsy, along with autism and intellectual disability, is one of the 
neurologic impairments associated with TSC that has an intimate relationship 
with developmental outcomes and quality of life. Sustained activation of the 
mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) via TSC1 or TSC2 mutations is known to be 
involved in the onset of epilepsy in TSC. However, the mechanism by which mTOR 
causes seizures remains unknown. In this study, we showed that, human induced 
pluripotent stem cell-derived TSC2-deficient (TSC2-/-) neurons exhibited 
elevated neuronal activity with highly synchronized Ca2+ spikes. Notably, 
TSC2-/- neurons presented enhanced Ca2+ influx via L-type Ca2+ channels (LTCCs), 
which contributed to the abnormal neurite extension and sustained activation of 
cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), a critical mediator of synaptic 
plasticity. Expression of Cav1.3, a subtype of LTCCs, was increased in TSC2-/- 
neurons, but long-term rapamycin treatment suppressed this increase and reversed 
the altered neuronal activity and neurite extensions. Thus, we identified Cav1.3 
LTCC as a critical downstream component of TSC-mTOR signaling that would trigger 
enhanced neuronal network activity of TSC2-/- neurons. We suggest that LTCCs 
could be potential novel targets for the treatment of epilepsy in 
TSC.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT There is a close relationship between elevated 
mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) activity and epilepsy in tuberous sclerosis 
complex (TSC). However, the underlying mechanism by which mTOR causes epilepsy 
remains unknown. In this study, using human TSC2-/- neurons, we identified 
elevated Ca2+ influx via L-type Ca2+ channels as a critical downstream component 
of TSC-mTOR signaling and a potential cause of both elevated neuronal activity 
and neurite extension in TSC2-/- neurons. Our findings demonstrate a previously 
unrecognized connection between sustained mTOR activation and elevated Ca2+ 
signaling via L-type Ca2+ channels in human TSC neurons, which could cause 
epilepsy in TSC.

Copyright © 2021 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1930-20.2021
PMCID: PMC8482857
PMID: 34417327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Eur J Health Econ. 2022 Mar;23(2):277-299. doi: 10.1007/s10198-021-01364-3.
Epub  2021 Aug 21.

Willingness to pay for a quality-adjusted life year: a systematic review with 
meta-regression.

Kouakou CRC(1)(2), Poder TG(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, School of Business, University of Sherbrooke, 
Sherbrooke, Canada.
(2)Centre de recherche de l'Institut universitaire en santé mentale de Montréal, 
CIUSSS de l'Est de l'Île de Montréal, Montreal, Canada.
(3)Centre de recherche de l'Institut universitaire en santé mentale de Montréal, 
CIUSSS de l'Est de l'Île de Montréal, Montreal, Canada. 
thomas.poder@umontreal.ca.
(4)Department of Management, Evaluation and Health Policy, School of Public 
Health, University of Montreal, Montreal, Canada. thomas.poder@umontreal.ca.

The use of a threshold for cost-utility studies is of major importance to health 
authorities for making the best allocation decisions for limited resources. 
Regarding the increasing number of studies worldwide that seek to establish a 
value for a quality-adjusted life year (QALY), it is necessary to review these 
studies to provide a global insight into the literature. A systematic review on 
willingness to pay (WTP) studies focusing on QALY was conducted in eight 
databases up to June 26, 2020. From a total of 9991 entries, 39 studies were 
selected, and 511 observations were extracted for the meta-analysis using the 
ordinary least squares method. The results showed a predicted mean empirical 
value of $52,619.39 (95% CI 49,952.59; 55,286.19) per QALY in US dollars for 
2018. A 1% increase in income led to an increase of 0.6% in the WTP value, while 
a 1-year increase in respondent age led to a decrease of 3.3% in the WTP value. 
Sex, education level and employment status had significant effects on WTP. 
Compared to face-to-face interviews, surveys conducted by the internet or 
telephone were more likely to have a significantly higher value of WTP per QALY, 
while out-of-pocket payment tended to lower the value. The prediction made for 
the province of Quebec, Canada, provided a QALY value of approximately USD 
$98,450 (CAD $127,985), which is about 2.3 times its gross domestic product 
(GDP) per capita in 2018. This study is consistent with the extant literature 
and will be useful for countries that do not yet have a preference-based survey 
for the value of a QALY.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-021-01364-3
PMID: 34417905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Adv Ther. 2021 Oct;38(10):5116-5126. doi: 10.1007/s12325-021-01889-2. Epub
2021  Aug 21.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Anlotinib as Third- or Further-Line Treatment for 
Relapsed Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC) in China.

Gong J(1)(2), Wan Q(3), Shang J(1), Qian X(1), Su D(1), Sun Z(4), Liu G(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The Affiliated Changzhou No. 2 People's Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, Changzhou, China.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Qingpu Branch of Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of Radiotherapy, The Affiliated Changzhou No. 2 People's Hospital 
of Nanjing Medical University, Changzhou, China. jungler@sina.cn.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, The Affiliated Changzhou No. 2 People's Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, Changzhou, China. liugj66@163.com.

INTRODUCTION: The survival of patients with relapsed small cell lung cancer 
(SCLC) has achieved little progress in the last several decades. ALTER1202 
confirmed the efficacy and safety of anlotinib as a third- or further-line 
option for relapsed SCLC. This study aimed to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
anlotinib compared with placebo as third- or further-line treatment for advanced 
SCLC in China.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to simulate the process of advanced SCLC 
and estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of anlotinib versus 
placebo. The health outcomes and utilities were derived from the ALTER1202 
(NCT03059797) and published sources, respectively. Total costs were calculated 
from the perspective of Chinese society. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses (PSA) were conducted to explore the model uncertainties.
RESULTS: Anlotinib was estimated to result in an additional 0.12 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) at an incremental cost of $2131.32, 
resulting in an ICER of $17,741.94/QALY. The ICER did not exceed the 
willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of $30,833 per QALY, which was three times 
the gross domestic product (GDP) per capita of China in 2019. One-way 
sensitivity analysis showed that the cost of anlotinib exerted the maximum 
influence on the result of the model, followed by the utility of 
progression-free survival (PFS) state in the anlotinib group and median overall 
survival (mOS) in the anlotinib group. In PSA, the probability of anlotinib 
being cost-effective was 26.6% and 78.5% when the WTP threshold was one and 
three times the GDP per capita, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Anlotinib is likely to be a cost-effective option compared with 
placebo for patients with relapsed SCLC who experience failure of at least two 
lines of chemotherapy in China.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Healthcare Ltd., part 
of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-021-01889-2
PMCID: PMC8379562
PMID: 34417989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2021 Nov;225(5):550.e1-550.e10. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajog.2021.08.014. Epub 2021 Aug 18.

Role of antibiotic resistance in urinary tract infection management: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Wang R(1), LaSala C(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery, Department of 
Women's Health, Hartford Hospital, Hartford, CT. Electronic address: 
Rui.Wang@hhchealth.org.
(2)Division of Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery, Department of 
Women's Health, Hartford Hospital, Hartford, CT.

BACKGROUND: Urinary tract infections and recurrent urinary tract infections pose 
substantial burdens on patients and healthcare systems. Testing and treatment 
strategies are increasingly important in the age of antibiotic resistance and 
stewardship.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the cost effectiveness of urinary tract 
infection testing and treatment strategies with a focus on antibiotic 
resistance.
STUDY DESIGN: We designed a decision tree to model the following 4 strategies 
for managing urinary tract infections: (1) empirical antibiotics first, followed 
by culture-directed antibiotics if symptoms persist; (2) urine culture first, 
followed by culture-directed antibiotics; (3) urine culture at the same time as 
empirical antibiotics, followed by culture-directed antibiotics, if symptoms 
persist; and (4) symptomatic treatment first, followed by culture-directed 
antibiotics, if symptoms persist. To model both patient- and society-level 
concerns, we built 3 versions of this model with different outcome measures: 
quality-adjusted life-years, symptom-free days, and antibiotic courses given. 
Societal cost of antibiotic resistance was modeled for each course of 
antibiotics given. The probability of urinary tract infection and the level of 
antibiotic resistance were modeled from 0% to 100%. We also extended the model 
to account for patients requiring catheterization for urine specimen collection.
RESULTS: In our model, the antibiotic resistance rate was based either on the 
local antibiotic resistance patterns for patients presenting with sporadic 
urinary tract infections or on rate of resistance from prior urine cultures for 
patients with recurrent urinary tract infections. With the base case assumption 
of 20% antibiotic resistance, urine culture at the same time as empirical 
antibiotics was the most cost-effective strategy and maximized symptom-free 
days. However, empirical antibiotics was the most cost-effective strategy when 
antibiotic resistance was below 6%, whereas symptomatic treatment was the most 
cost-effective strategy when antibiotic resistance was above 80%. To minimize 
antibiotic use, symptomatic treatment first was always the best strategy 
followed by urine culture first. Sensitivity analyses with other input 
parameters did not affect the cost-effectiveness results. When we extended the 
model to include an office visit for catheterized urine specimens, empirical 
antibiotics became the most cost-effective option.
CONCLUSION: We developed models for urinary tract infection management 
strategies that can be interpreted for patients initially presenting with 
urinary tract infections or those with recurrent urinary tract infections. Our 
results suggest that, in most cases, urine culture at the same time as empirical 
antibiotics is the most cost-effective strategy and maximizes symptom-free days. 
Empirical antibiotics first should only be considered if the expected antibiotic 
resistance is very low. If antibiotic resistance is expected to be very high, 
symptomatic treatment is the best strategy and minimizes antibiotic use.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2021.08.014
PMID: 34418350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Contraception. 2022 Jan;105:42-45. doi: 10.1016/j.contraception.2021.08.009.
 Epub 2021 Aug 18.

Contraceptive use and preferences among females with sickle cell disease.

Roe AH(1), Lang B(2), McAllister A(2), Gaitors MC(3), Smith-Whitley K(4), 
Schreiber CA(5), Sayani F(6).

Author information:
(1)Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
PA, United States; Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hospital of the 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States. Electronic address: 
andrea.roe@uphs.upenn.edu.
(2)Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
PA, United States.
(3)Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
PA, United States; Corporal Michael J. Crescenz VA Medical Center, Philadelphia, 
PA, United States.
(4)Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
PA, United States; Division of Hematology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, PA, United States.
(5)Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
PA, United States; Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hospital of the 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States.
(6)Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
PA, United States; Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, 
Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States.

OBJECTIVES: Females with sickle cell disease now have a life expectancy that 
extends well into and beyond their reproductive years. Pregnancy and childbirth 
are accompanied by high morbidity and mortality in this population, rendering 
contraception a critical part of their health care.
STUDY DESIGN: We approached adult female patients of the Hospital of the 
University of Pennsylvania hematology clinic who were of reproductive age (ages 
18-45) and carried a diagnosis of sickle cell disease. We evaluated 
contraceptive method uptake and method characteristic preferences, as well as 
other reproductive history, and compared contraceptive uptake rates to that from 
female respondent data from the National Survey of Family Growth (2017-2019).
RESULTS: Of 95 eligible patients, we completed surveys with 48 participants 
(response rate of 51%). Over half (n = 27, 56%) of participants were not 
currently using any form of contraception-double the rate of the general United 
States population (25%). The most common contraceptives currently used were the 
depot medroxyprogesterone (DMPA) injection (n = 6, 13%) and the progestin 
intrauterine device (IUD) (n = 6, 13%). DMPA uptake was significantly higher, 
and permanent contraceptive and oral contraceptive pill uptake significantly 
lower, among these participants with sickle cell disease compared to the general 
United States population. Participants' preferred contraceptive characteristics 
included effectiveness (n = 39, 81%), control over when to use the contraceptive 
(n = 39, 81%), and lack of side effects (n = 38, 79%).
CONCLUSIONS: Contraceptive uptake was significantly lower and method mix 
different among females with sickle cell disease compared to the general United 
States population. Further research is needed on contraceptive safety, 
non-contraceptive benefits, and contraceptive decision-making for females with 
sickle cell disease.
IMPLICATIONS: This study sheds light on the contraceptive choices and 
preferences of females with sickle cell disease, who are at disproportionate 
risk for pregnancy complications. In order to maximize the reproductive health 
of females with sickle cell disease, we must consider how their disease 
interacts with contraception and better understand how they approach 
contraceptive decision-making.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.contraception.2021.08.009
PMID: 34418379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Gastrointest Endosc. 2022 Feb;95(2):225-235.e20. doi:
10.1016/j.gie.2021.08.008.  Epub 2021 Aug 19.

Cost-effectiveness of risk-stratified endoscopic screening for esophageal cancer 
in high-risk areas of China: a modeling study.

Xia R(1), Li H(2), Shi J(2), Liu W(1), Cao M(2), Sun D(2), He S(2), Yu Y(2), Li 
N(2), Lei L(3), Zhuang G(4), Chen W(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Xi'an 
Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an, China.
(2)Office of Cancer Screening, National Cancer Center/National Clinical Research 
Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Cancer Prevention and Control, Shenzhen Center for Chronic 
Disease Control, Shenzhen, China. Electronic address: lin.leilana@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Xi'an 
Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an, China. Electronic address: 
zhuanggh@mail.xjtu.edu.cn.
(5)Office of Cancer Screening, National Cancer Center/National Clinical Research 
Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China. Electronic address: 
chenwq@cicams.ac.cn.

Comment in
    Gastrointest Endosc. 2022 Feb;95(2):236-238.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Risk-stratified endoscopic screening (RSES) has been 
suggested to improve screening efficiency. We aimed to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of RSES and identify the optimal risk-score thresholds for 
once in a lifetime esophageal cancer (EC) screening in high-risk areas of China.
METHODS: From a healthcare system perspective, a Markov model was constructed to 
compare the cost-effectiveness of 13 RSES strategies (under different score 
thresholds for EC risk), universal endoscopic screening strategy, and no 
screening. Six cohorts of 100,000 participants with different screening ages 
(40-65 years) were followed up to age 77 years. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), that is, incremental costs per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained, was the primary outcome.
RESULTS: Compared with no screening, as the score threshold was lowered, 
additionally gained QALYs increased, with 49 to 172 QALYs and 329 to 1147 QALYs 
gained from screening performed at 40 and 65 years, respectively. RSES in all 
age scenarios had ICERs less than the gross domestic product (GDP) per capita, 
and 11 RSES strategies with score thresholds of 3 to 13 had lower ICERs than 
universal endoscopic screening. At a willingness-to-pay threshold of the GDP per 
capita (U.S.$10,276/QALY), RSES at score thresholds of 8 or 9 and universal 
endoscopic screening were the most cost-effective strategies at ages <55 and ≥55 
years, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: RSES is cost-effective, and score thresholds of 8 or 9 should be 
considered for screening ages <55 years. For individuals aged ≥55 years, 
universal endoscopic screening is the optimal strategy.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2021.08.008
PMID: 34418461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. BMC Cancer. 2021 Aug 21;21(1):944. doi: 10.1186/s12885-021-08638-2.

Optimizing oropharyngeal cancer management by using proton beam therapy: trends 
of cost-effectiveness.

Li G(1), Xia YF(2)(3), Huang YX(4), Okat D(5), Qiu B(2)(3), Doyen J(6)(7), 
Bondiau PY(6)(7), Benezery K(6)(7), Gao J(8), Qian CN(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Affiliated Cancer Hospital & Institute of 
Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510095, P. R. China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China and Collaborative Innovation 
Center for Cancer Medicine, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, 651 Dongfeng 
East Road, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510060, P. R. China.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510060, P. R. China.
(4)Department of Health Management, Public Health Institute of Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510000, P. R. China.
(5)Department of Finance, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, 
Kowloon, Hong Kong, P. R. China.
(6)Department of Radiation Oncology, Antoine Lacassagne Cancer Center, 
University of Nice-Sophia, 06189, Nice, France.
(7)Mediterranean Institute of Proton Therapy, Antoine Lacassagne Cancer Center, 
University of Nice-Sophia, 06200, Nice, France.
(8)Department of Radiation Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of University 
of Science and Technology of China, Division of Life Sciences and Medicine, 
University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui, 230031, P. R. 
China.
(9)State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China and Collaborative Innovation 
Center for Cancer Medicine, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, 651 Dongfeng 
East Road, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510060, P. R. China. qianchn@sysucc.org.cn.
(10)Department of Radiation Oncology, Guangzhou Concord Cancer Center, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510045, P. R. China. qianchn@sysucc.org.cn.

BACKGROUND: Proton beam therapy (PBT) is a new-emerging cancer treatment in 
China but its treatment costs are high and not yet covered by Chinese public 
medical insurance. The advanced form of PBT, intensity-modulated proton 
radiation therapy (IMPT), has been confirmed to reduce normal tissue 
complication probability (NTCP) as compared to conventional intensity-modulated 
photon-radiation therapy (IMRT) in patients with oropharyngeal cancer (OPC). 
Herein, we evaluated the cost-effectiveness and applicability of IMPT versus 
IMRT for OPC patients in China, aiming at guiding the proper use of PBT.
METHODS: A 7-state Markov model was designed for analysis. Base-case evaluation 
was performed on a 56-year-old (median age of OPC in China) patient under the 
assumption that IMPT could provide a 25% NTCP-reduction in long-term symptomatic 
dysphagia and xerostomia. Model robustness was examined using probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis, cohort analysis, and tornado diagram. One-way sensitivity 
analyses were conducted to identify the cost-effective scenarios. IMPT was 
considered as cost-effective if the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
was below the societal willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold.
RESULTS: Compared with IMRT, IMPT provided an extra 0.205 quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) at an additional cost of 34,926.6 US dollars ($), and had an 
ICER of $170,082.4/ QALY for the base case. At the current WTP of China ($33,558 
/ QALY) and a current IMPT treatment costs of $50,000, IMPT should provide a 
minimum NTCP-reduction of 47.5, 50.8, 55.6, 63.3 and 77.2% to be considered 
cost-effective for patient age levels of 10, 20, 30, 40 and 50-year-old, 
respectively. For patients at the median age level, reducing the current IMPT 
costs ($50,000) to a $30,000 level would make the minimum NTCP-reduction 
threshold for "cost-effective" decrease from 91.4 to 44.6%, at the current WTP 
of China (from 69.0 to 33.5%, at a WTP of $50,000 / QALY; and from 39.7 to 
19.1%, at a WTP of $100,000 / QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-effective scenarios of PBT exist in Chinese OPC patients at 
the current WTP of China. Considering a potential upcoming increase in PBT use 
in China, such cost-effective scenarios may further expand if a decrease of 
proton treatment costs occurs or an increase of WTP level.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-021-08638-2
PMCID: PMC8380358
PMID: 34419008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


557. Int J Biol Macromol. 2021 Oct 31;189:84-90. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2021.08.118.  Epub 2021 Aug 20.

Enhancing safety and quality of shrimp by nanoparticles of sodium alginate-based 
edible coating containing grapefruit seed extract.

Baek JH(1), Lee SY(1), Oh SW(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food and Nutrition, Kookmin University, 77, Jeongneung-ro, 
Seongbuk-gu, Seoul 02707, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Food and Nutrition, Kookmin University, 77, Jeongneung-ro, 
Seongbuk-gu, Seoul 02707, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
swoh@kookmin.ac.kr.

Edible coatings are safe and effective in extending the shelf life of foods. In 
this study, a nanoparticle-based edible coating solution was prepared, 
containing alginate as a coating agent and grapefruit seed extract as an 
antibacterial agent to improve the safety and quality of shrimp during storage. 
Shrimp coated with this formulation were maintained at 4°C for 8 days, and 
periodically analyzed for changes in sensory, chemical [total volatile basic 
nitrogen (TVB-N) and pH] and microbial parameters. The uncoated shrimp exceeded 
the microbiological limits at 7.87 log CFU/g on Day 4 of storage, whereas the 
nanoparticle-based coated shrimp did not exceed the limit by Day 8 of storage. 
In addition, uncoated shrimp tended to maintain their quality, while uncoated 
shrimp deteriorated due to increased TVB-N values, pH values, and off-flavors. 
Nanoparticles are easily dispersed in food to minimize flavor impact and enhance 
diffusion and bioactivity. We concluded that the nanoparticles coating extended 
the shelf life of shrimp by more than 5 days. Therefore, the use of 
nanoparticle-based coatings could be a new and effective way to maintain shrimp 
quality.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2021.08.118
PMID: 34419539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. J Electrocardiol. 2021 Sep-Oct;68:135-140. doi: 
10.1016/j.jelectrocard.2021.08.007. Epub 2021 Aug 12.

Rationale and design of the rigorous atrial analysis in advanced interatrial 
block (ARABIA) prospective study.

Martínez-Sellés M(1), Bruña V(2), Lacalzada-Almeida J(3), Díez-Villanueva P(4), 
Ruiz-Ortiz M(5), Alzola E(6), Arnau MÁ(7), Tobar J(8), Hernández JM(9), Bonet 
A(10), Castro V(11), Rubín JM(12), García-Martín A(13), Pérez-David E(14).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañón, 
Universidad Europea. Universidad Complutense, Madrid, Spain; Centro de 
Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Cardiovasculares (CIBER-CV), 
Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: mmselles@secardiologia.es.
(2)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Cardiovasculares 
(CIBER-CV), Madrid, Spain; Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Universitario, 12 
de Octubre, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Laboratorio de Imagen Cardíaca, Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital 
Universitario de Canarias, La Laguna, Tenerife, Spain.
(4)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Universitario de la Princesa, Madrid, 
Spain.
(5)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Universitario Reina Sofia, Córdoba, Spain.
(6)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Universitario de Cruces, Baracaldo, Bilbao, 
Spain.
(7)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Universitario y Politécnico la Fe, 
Valencia, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades 
Cardiovasculares (CIBER-CV), Madrid, Spain.
(8)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Clínico Universitario de Valladolid, Spain; 
Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Cardiovasculares 
(CIBER-CV), Madrid, Spain.
(9)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Clínico Universitario de Salamanca, Spain; 
Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Cardiovasculares 
(CIBER-CV), Madrid, Spain.
(10)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Universitario de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(11)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Universitario Puerta de Hierro, Madrid, 
Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Cardiovasculares 
(CIBER-CV), Madrid, Spain.
(12)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Universitario Central de Asturias, Oviedo, 
Spain.
(13)Servicio de Cardiología. Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal, Madrid, 
Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Cardiovasculares 
(CIBER-CV), Madrid, Spain.
(14)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Universitario de la Paz, Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Advanced interatrial block (IAB) is present in 10% of subjects ≥75 
years and is associated with the risk of clinical events.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Prospective multicenter study that will include subjects 
≥75 years without exclusion criteria (indication for anticoagulation, cardiac 
devices, severe valve disease, systolic dysfunction, moderate or severe 
cognitive impairment, poor echocardiographic window, non-sinus rhythm or partial 
IAB, stroke, and life expectancy <2 years). A total of 356 subjects, 178 
patients with advanced IAB (exposed) and 178 matched individuals with normal 
P-wave (non-exposed) will be included. Electrocardiogram and advanced 
transthoracic echocardiography will be performed. Two substudies will include 
magnetic resonance imaging: cardiac (86 subjects, 43 exposed, and 43 
non-exposed) and brain (86 subjects, 43 exposed, and 43 non-exposed). The 
follow-up will be 2 years. Our main objective is to determine the association of 
advanced IAB, P-wave duration, and atrial imaging parameters (I] atrial global 
longitudinal strain, II] maximal left atrial volume index, III] left atrial 
ejection fraction, IV] left atrial fibrosis - % total left atrial area V] inter- 
and intra-atrial asynchrony/dyssynchrony) with clinical events (atrial 
fibrillation, stroke, cognitive impairment, and mortality). The secondary 
objective is to assess the association of the P-wave duration with atrial 
imaging parameters and of both with cerebral microemboli in magnetic resonance 
imaging.
CONCLUSION: Our study will provide data regarding the association of advanced 
IAB, P-wave duration, and atrial imaging parameters with clinical events. We 
will also assess the association P-wave duration-atrial imaging 
parameters-cerebral microemboli.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jelectrocard.2021.08.007
PMID: 34419649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.


559. J Cardiovasc Med (Hagerstown). 2022 Mar 1;23(3):167-175. doi: 
10.2459/JCM.0000000000001233.

Marginal donors and organ shortness: concomitant surgical procedures during 
heart transplantation: a literature review.

Piperata A(1), Caraffa R(1), Bifulco O(1), Avesani M(1), Apostolo A(2), Gerosa 
G(1), Bottio T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac, Thoracic, Vascular, and Public Health Sciences, 
University of Padua, Padova.
(2)Cardiological Unit, Monzino Hospital, University of Milan, Milan, Italy.

Heart transplantation represents the gold standard for end-stage heart failure. 
However, due to the increasing demand and the shortage of available organs, 
donor supply remains the main limitation. Marginal donor hearts in high-risk 
candidates who do not meet standard listing criteria are the only alternative 
when life expectancy is limited, but their use is still debated. Surgical 
correction of detected coronary lesions or valvular heart defects allows further 
enlargement of the number of available organs. In this article, we offer a 
literature review on this topic and report two marginal donor hearts with 
angiography evidence of coronary stenosis and preserved ventricular function, 
which underwent concomitant myocardial revascularization during heart 
implantation.

Copyright © 2021 Italian Federation of Cardiology - I.F.C. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.2459/JCM.0000000000001233
PMID: 34420009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Glob Health Action. 2021 Jan 1;14(1):1959708. doi: 
10.1080/16549716.2021.1959708.

Burden of cardiovascular disease from 1990 to 2017 in Henan Province, China.

Zhao YF(1), Zhang T(2), Wang ZQ(1), Chen XR(3), Wang CX(4), Qi JL(5), Yang J(1), 
Wu J(6), Zhou MG(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Science, Education & International Cooperation, National Center 
for Chronic and Non-communicable Disease Control and Prevention, China CDC, 
Beijing, People's Republic of China.
(2)Epidemiology and Biostatistics Unit, School of Public Health, Dali 
University, Dali, People's Republic of China.
(3)Division of Cardiovascular Disease Control and Prevention, National Center 
for Chronic and Non-communicable Disease Control and Prevention, China CDC, 
Beijing, People's Republic of China.
(4)Division of Oral Health, National Center for Chronic and Non-communicable 
Disease Control and Prevention, China CDC, Beijing, People's Republic of China.
(5)Division of Vital Registry and Mortality Surveillance, National Center for 
Chronic and Non-communicable Disease Control and Prevention, China CDC, Beijing, 
People's Republic of China.
(6)National Center for Chronic and Non-communicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, China CDC, Beijing, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the leading causes of death in 
China. Little is known about the CVD burden and risk factors in Henan Province, 
China.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze the CVD burden and main risk factors between 1990 and 2017 
in the Henan Province in China.
METHODS: The methodological framework and analytical strategies adopted in the 
Global Burden of Disease Study 2017 were used.
RESULTS: (1) Age-standardized mortality rate attributed to CVDs increased from 
355.0 per 100,000 persons in 1990 to 364.1 per 100,000 persons in 2017 in Henan. 
(2) Age-standardized disability adjusted life years (DALYs) rate fell by 3.9% 
from 1990 to 2017. However, the number of DALYs attributed to CVDs increased by 
75.9% from 4.2 million person-years in 1990 to 7.3 million person-years in 2017. 
(3) The age-standardized years lived with disability (YLDs) rate increased by 
27.5% from 1990 to 2017. However, years of life lost (YLLs) rate decreased by 
6.7% from 1990 to 2017. The contribution of YLLs to the DALYs decreased from 
91.4% in 1990 to 89.2% in 2017. (4) Stroke (52.3%) and ischemic heart diseases 
(38.8%) accounted for 91.1% of total CVDs DALYs among adults in 2017. (5) 
Dietary factors such as high intake of sodium, alcohol use and low intake of 
fruits, high systolic blood pressure, and tobacco use were the top risk factors 
for CVDs, and the estimated population attributable fraction in 2017 was 69.4%, 
56.7% and 25.2%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The absolute burden of CVDs in Henan is still high, although 
age-standardized DALYs declined between 1990 and 2017. The prevention and 
control of stroke and ischemic heart diseases should focus on a few modifiable 
risk factors which mainly contributed to the burden of CVDs, such as dietary 
factors, high systolic blood pressure, and tobacco use.

DOI: 10.1080/16549716.2021.1959708
PMCID: PMC8386708
PMID: 34420496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).


561. JMIR Aging. 2021 Aug 19;4(3):e29031. doi: 10.2196/29031.

Using Living Labs to Explore Needs and Solutions for Older Adults With Dementia: 
Scoping Review.

Verloo H(1)(2), Lorette A(2), Rosselet Amoussou J(3), Gillès de Pélichy E(4), 
Matos Queirós A(5)(6), von Gunten A(7), Perruchoud E(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences HES-SO Valais and Department of Nursing Sciences, 
University of Applied Sciences and Arts Western Switzerland, Sion, Switzerland.
(2)Service of Old Age Psychiatry, Lausanne University Hospital, Prilly-Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(3)Psychiatry Library, Education and Research Department, Lausanne University 
Hospital and University of Lausanne, Prilly-Lausanne, Switzerland.
(4)Service of Old Age Psychiatry, Sector West, Prangins Hospital, Lausanne 
University Hospital, Prangins, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Health and Social Welfare, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(6)Institute of Biomedical Sciences Abel Salazar, University of Porto, Porto, 
Portugal.
(7)Head of the Service of Old Age Psychiatry, Lausanne University Hospital, 
Prilly-Lausanne, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Numerous living labs have established a new approach for studying 
the health, independent living, and well-being of older adults with dementia. 
Living labs interact with a broad set of stakeholders, including students, 
academic institutions, private companies, health care organizations, and patient 
representative bodies and even with other living labs. Hence, it is crucial to 
identify the types of cocreations that should be attempted and how they can be 
facilitated through living labs.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to scope publications that examine all types of 
living lab activities, exploring the needs and expectations of older adults with 
dementia and seeking solutions, whether they live in the community or long-term 
health care facilities (LTHFs).
METHODS: This scoping review was reported according to the PRISMA (Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses) recommendations for 
the extension of scoping reviews. We searched six bibliographic databases for 
publications up to March 2020, and a forward-backward citation chasing was 
performed. Additional searches were conducted using Google Scholar. The quality 
of the selected papers was assessed.
RESULTS: Of the 5609 articles identified, we read 58 (1.03%) articles and 
retained 12 (0.21%) articles for inclusion and final analysis. All 12 articles 
presented an innovative product, developed in 4 main living labs, to assist 
older adults with cognitive disorders or dementia living in the community or 
LTHFs. The objectives of these studies were to optimize health, quality of life, 
independent living, home care, and safety of older adults with cognitive 
disorders or dementia, as well as to support professional and family caregivers 
or reduce their burdens. The overall methodological quality of the studies 
ranged from poor to moderate.
CONCLUSIONS: This scoping review identified several living labs playing a 
pivotal role in research aimed at older adults with dementia living in the 
community or LTHFs. However, it also revealed that living labs should conduct 
more better-quality interventional research to prove the effectiveness of their 
technological products or service solutions.
