included in the National Tunisian Registry of Heart Failure study (NATURE-HF). 
Patients must visit the cardiology clinic 1, 3, and 12 months after study 
inclusion. This follow-up is provided by the investigator. All data are 
collected via the DACIMA Clinical Suite web interface.
RESULTS: At the end of the study, we will note the occurrence of cardiovascular 
death (sudden death, coronary artery disease, refractory HF, stroke), death from 
any cause (cardiovascular and noncardiovascular), and the occurrence of a 
rehospitalization episode for an HF relapse during the follow-up period. Based 
on these data, we will evaluate the demographic characteristics of the study 
patients, the characteristics of pathological antecedents, and symptomatic and 
clinical features of HF. In addition, we will report the paraclinical 
examination findings such as the laboratory standard parameters and brain 
natriuretic peptides, electrocardiogram or 24-hour Holter monitoring, 
echocardiography, and coronarography. We will also provide a description of the 
therapeutic environment and therapeutic changes that occur during the 1-year 
follow-up of patients, adverse events following medical treatment and 
intervention during the 3- and 12-month follow-up, the evaluation of left 
ventricular ejection fraction during the 3- and 12-month follow-up, the overall 
rate of rehospitalization over the 1-year follow-up for an HF relapse, and the 
rate of rehospitalization during the first 3 months after inclusion into the 
study.
CONCLUSIONS: The NATURE-HF study will fill a significant gap in the dynamic 
landscape of HF care and research. It will provide unique and necessary data on 
the management and outcomes of patients with HF. This study will yield the 
largest contemporary longitudinal cohort of patients with HF in Tunisia.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03262675; 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03262675.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/12262.

©Leila Abid, Ikram Kammoun, Manel Ben Halima, Salma Charfeddine, Hedi Ben Slima, 
Meriem Drissa, Khadija Mzoughi, Dorra Mbarek, Leila Riahi, Saoussen Antit, Afef 
Ben Halima, Wejdene Ouechtati, Emna Allouche, Mehdi Mechri, Chedi Yousfi, Ali 
Khorchani, Omar Abid, Kais Sammoud, Khaled Ezzaouia, Imen Gtif, Sana Ouali, 
Feten Triki, Sonia Hamdi, Selim Boudiche, Marwa Chebbi, Mouna Hentati, Amani 
Farah, Habib Triki, Houda Ghardallou, Haythem Raddaoui, Sofien Zayed, Fares 
Azaiez, Fadwa Omri, Akram Zouari, Zine Ben Ali, Aymen Najjar, Houssem Thabet, 
Mouna Chaker, Samar Mohamed, Marwa Chouaieb, Abdelhamid Ben Jemaa, Haythem 
Tangour, Yassmine Kammoun, Mahmoud Bouhlel, Seifeddine Azaiez, Rim Letaief, 
Salah Maskhi, Aymen Amri, Hela Naanaa, Raoudha Othmani, Iheb Chahbani, Houcine 
Zargouni, Syrine Abid, Mokdad Ayari, Ines ben Ameur, Ali Gasmi, Nejeh ben 
Halima, Habib Haouala, Essia Boughzela, Lilia Zakhama, Soraya ben Youssef, Wided 
Nasraoui, Mohamed Rachid Boujnah, Nadia Barakett, Sondes Kraiem, Habiba Drissa, 
Ali Ben Khalfallah, Habib Gamra, Salem Kachboura, Leila Bezdah, Hedi Baccar, 
Sami Milouchi, Wissem Sdiri, Skander Ben Omrane, Salem Abdesselem, Alifa Kanoun, 
Karima Hezbri, Faiez Zannad, Alexandre Mebazaa, Samir Kammoun, Mohamed Sami 
Mourali, Faouzi Addad. Originally published in JMIR Research Protocols 
(https://www.researchprotocols.org), 27.10.2021.

DOI: 10.2196/12262
PMCID: PMC8581756
PMID: 34704958

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


446. Orthopade. 2021 Dec;50(12):979-986. doi: 10.1007/s00132-021-04179-5. Epub
2021  Oct 27.

[Revision TKA due to instability: diagnostics, treatment options and outcomes].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Faschingbauer M(1), Reichel H(2).

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Universitätsklinik Ulm, RKU, Oberer Eselsberg 45, 89081, Ulm, 
Deutschland. Martin.Faschingbauer@uni-ulm.de.
(2)Orthopädische Universitätsklinik Ulm, RKU, Oberer Eselsberg 45, 89081, Ulm, 
Deutschland.

BACKGROUND: Instability after primary TKA is a frequent reason for revision 
surgery. Other mechanisms of failure must be ruled out before an in-depth 
analysis of instability.
DIAGNOSTICS: Diagnostic tools for instability consist of medical history, 
clinical examination, and imaging. The clinical examination must focus primarily 
on the extent of the instability, the location of the instability and the levels 
of instability. Varus and valgus stress radiographs in the mediolateral plane in 
extension and flexion, as well as anteroposterior stress images (drawer) are 
mandatory. In addition, the underlying cause (or a combination of causes) must 
be defined. Possible causes include malalignment, component malposition 
(rotation), bony and ligamentous insufficiencies and implant-associated 
instabilities.
THERAPY: Once the mechanism of failure is understood in detail, various 
therapeutic options are available. Conservative therapy is only considered in 
patients where there is borderline instability, and the patient has adequate 
compensatory options in daily life. Some authors postulate the need for 3 months 
of conservative therapy in every case before possible surgery. Isolated inlay 
exchange is usually only a compromise and shows failure rates of up to 60%. 
Partial component exchange requires some preconditions and is technically 
demanding.
RESULTS: If the indication is correct, the results are consistently comparable 
with those after full component revision. In the case of full component 
revision, attention must be paid to the degree of constraint to achieve 
stability but also to avoiding over-treatment (too highly constrained TKA with 
an probability of loosening). In general, the results after revision surgery are 
worse in cases of instability than in cases of exchange surgery due to aseptic 
loosening or patellar abnormalities but better than in cases of infection or 
arthrofibrosis.

Publisher: ZUSAMMENFASSUNG: HINTERGRUND: Eine Instabilität nach primärer K‑TEP 
stellt einen häufigen Wechselgrund dar. Andere Versagensmechanismen müssen vor 
einer tiefgreifenden Analyse der Instabilität ausgeschlossen werden.
DIAGNOSTIK: Die Diagnostik besteht aus Anamnese, klinischer Untersuchung und 
Bildgebung. In der klinischen Untersuchung muss vor allem auf das Ausmaß der 
Instabilität, auf die Lokalisation und die Ebenen der Instabilität fokussiert 
werden. Die Bildgebung ergänzt bzw. erhärtet die klinischen Befunde. 
Obligatorisch sind Stressaufnahmen in mediolateraler Ebene in Extension und 
Flexion sowie anteroposteriore Stressaufnahmen (Schublade) ebenso in Extension 
und Flexion. Darüber hinaus muss die zugrundeliegende Ursache (bzw. eine 
Kombination der Ursachen) definiert werden. Mögliche Ursachen sind Malalignment, 
Malposition der Komponenten (Rotation), knöcherne und ligamentäre Insuffizienzen 
und implantatassoziierte Instabilitäten.
THERAPIE: Hat man den Versagensmechanismus im Detail verstanden, stehen 
verschiedene Therapieoptionen zur Verfügung. Die konservative Therapie kommt nur 
bei Patienten infrage, bei denen eine grenzwertige Instabilität vorliegt und der 
Patient im Alltag ausreichende kompensatorische Möglichkeiten besitzt. Manche 
Autoren postulieren bei jedem Fall die Notwendigkeit einer 3‑monatigen 
konservativen Therapie vor einer möglichen Operation. Der isolierte 
Inlay-Wechsel ist meist nur ein Kompromiss und zeigt Versagensraten von bis zu 
60 %. Der Teilkomponentenwechsel bedarf einiger Voraussetzungen und ist 
technisch anspruchsvoll.
ERGEBNISSE: Bei richtiger Indikationsstellung sind die Ergebnisse durchweg 
vergleichbar mit Ergebnissen nach Komplettwechsel. Wobei bei Komplettwechsel auf 
den notwendigen Kopplungsgrad zum Erreichen einer Stabilität, aber auch auf das 
Vermeiden eines „over-treatments“ (zu hoher Kopplungsgrad mit vergrößerter 
Lockerungswahrscheinlichkeit), geachtet werden muss. Grundsätzlich sind die 
Ergebnisse nach Wechseloperation bei Instabilität schlechter als bei 
Wechseloperationen aufgrund von aseptischer Lockerung oder patellarer 
Auffälligkeiten, jedoch besser als bei Infektionen oder Arthrofibrosen.

© 2021. Springer Medizin Verlag GmbH, ein Teil von Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-021-04179-5
PMID: 34705092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Biochemistry. 2021 Nov 9;60(44):3323-3336. doi: 10.1021/acs.biochem.1c00528.
 Epub 2021 Oct 27.

Conserved Trigger Loop Histidine of RNA Polymerase II Functions as a Positional 
Catalyst Primarily through Steric Effects.

Palo MZ(1), Zhu J(1), Mishanina TV(1), Landick R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin 53706, United States.
(2)Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin 53706, United States.

In all domains of life, multisubunit RNA polymerases (RNAPs) catalyze both the 
extension of mRNA transcripts by nucleotide addition and the hydrolysis of RNA, 
which enables proofreading by removal of misincorporated nucleotides. A highly 
conserved catalytic module within RNAPs called the trigger loop (TL) functions 
as the key controller of these activities. The TL is proposed to act as a 
positional catalyst of phosphoryl transfer and transcript cleavage via 
electrostatic and steric contacts with substrates in its folded helical form. 
The function of a near-universally conserved TL histidine that contacts NTP 
phosphates is of particular interest. Despite its exceptional conservation, 
substitutions of the TL His with Gln support efficient catalysis in bacterial 
and yeast RNAPs. Unlike bacterial TLs, which contain a nearby Arg, the TL His is 
the only acid-base catalyst candidate in the eukaryotic RNAPII TL. Nonetheless, 
replacement of the TL His with Leu is reported to support cell growth in yeast, 
suggesting that even hydrogen bonding and polarity at this position may be 
dispensable for efficient catalysis by RNAPII. To test how a TL His-to-Leu 
substitution affects the enzymatic functions of RNAPII, we compared its rates of 
nucleotide addition, pyrophosphorolysis, and RNA hydrolysis to those of the 
wild-type RNAPII enzyme. The His-to-Leu substitution slightly reduced rates of 
phosphoryl transfer with little if any effect on intrinsic transcript cleavage. 
These findings indicate that the highly conserved TL His is neither an obligate 
acid-base catalyst nor a polar contact for NTP phosphates but instead functions 
as a positional catalyst mainly through steric effects.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.biochem.1c00528
PMCID: PMC9066048
PMID: 34705427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


448. Annu Rev Public Health. 2022 Apr 5;43:99-116. doi: 
10.1146/annurev-publhealth-051920-123206. Epub 2021 Oct 27.

The Recent Rise of Suicide Mortality in the United States.

Martínez-Alés G(1)(2)(3), Jiang T(4), Keyes KM(1), Gradus JL(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia 
University, New York, NY, USA; email: gm2794@cumc.columbia.edu, 
kmk2104@columbia.edu.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, La Paz University Hospital, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Salud Mental (CIBERSAM), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Boston University, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA; email: tjiang1@bu.edu.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, Boston University, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA; email: jgradus@bu.edu.

Suicide is a major public health concern in the United States. Between 2000 and 
2018, US suicide rates increased by 35%, contributing to the stagnation and 
subsequent decrease in US life expectancy. During 2019, suicide declined 
modestly, mostly owing to slight reductions in suicides among Whites. Suicide 
rates, however, continued to increase or remained stable among all other 
racial/ethnic groups, and little is known about recent suicide trends among 
other vulnerable groups. This article (a) summarizes US suicide mortality trends 
over the twentieth and early twenty-first centuries, (b) reviews potential 
group-level causes of increased suicide risk among subpopulations characterized 
by markers of vulnerability to suicide, and (c) advocates for combining recent 
advances in population-based suicide prevention with a socially conscious 
perspective that captures the social, economic, and political contexts in which 
suicide risk unfolds over the life course of vulnerable individuals.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-publhealth-051920-123206
PMID: 34705474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2021 Nov 1;148(5):1135-1145. doi: 
10.1097/PRS.0000000000008440.

Cost-Effectiveness of Lower Extremity Nerve Decompression Surgery in the 
Prevention of Ulcers and Amputations: A Markov Analysis.

Rinkel WD(1), Franks B(1), Birnie E(1), Castro Cabezas M(1), Coert JH(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Plastic, Reconstructive, and Hand Surgery, Utrecht 
University Medical Center, University of Utrecht; Department of Data Science, 
Julius Clinical; Department of Genetics, University Medical Center Groningen, 
University of Groningen; and Department of Internal Medicine/Center for 
Diabetes, Endocrinology, and Vascular Medicine, Franciscus Gasthuis & Vlietland 
Hospital.

BACKGROUND: The costs and health effects associated with lower extremity 
complications in diabetes mellitus are an increasing burden to society. In 
selected patients, lower extremity nerve decompression is able to reduce 
symptoms of neuropathy and the concomitant risks of diabetic foot ulcers and 
amputations. To estimate the health and economic effects of this type of 
surgery, the cost-effectiveness of this intervention compared to current 
nonsurgical care was studied.
METHODS: To estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness of lower extremity nerve 
decompression over a 10-year period, a Markov model was developed to simulate 
the onset and progression of diabetic foot disease in patients with diabetes and 
neuropathy who underwent lower extremity nerve decompression surgery, compared 
to a group undergoing current nonsurgical care. Mean survival time, 
health-related quality of life, presence or risk of lower extremity 
complications, and in-hospital costs were the outcome measures assessed. Data 
from the Rotterdam Diabetic Foot Study were used as current care, complemented 
with information from international studies on the epidemiology of diabetic foot 
disease, resource use, and costs, to feed the model.
RESULTS: Lower extremity nerve decompression surgery resulted in improved life 
expectancy (88,369.5 life-years versus 86,513.6 life-years), gain of 
quality-adjusted life-years (67,652.5 versus 64,082.3), and reduced incidence of 
foot complications compared to current care (490 versus 1087). The incremental 
cost-effectiveness analysis was -€59,279.6 per quality-adjusted life-year 
gained, which is below the Dutch critical threshold of less than €80,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-year.
CONCLUSIONS: Decompression surgery of lower extremity nerves improves survival, 
reduces diabetic foot complications, and is cost saving and cost-effective 
compared with current care, suggesting considerable socioeconomic benefit for 
society.

Copyright © 2021 by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000008440
PMID: 34705790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. PLoS One. 2021 Oct 27;16(10):e0257796. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0257796. 
eCollection 2021.

Profile of Medicaid enrollees with sickle cell disease: A high need, high cost 
population.

Grady A(1), Fiori A(2), Patel D(2), Nysenbaum J(1).

Author information:
(1)Manatt Health Strategies, Washington, DC, United States of America.
(2)Manatt Health Strategies, New York, New York, United States of America.

Sickle cell disease is a progressively debilitating genetic condition that 
affects red blood cells and can result in a variety of serious medical 
complications, reduced life expectancy, and diminished quality of life. Medicaid 
nationwide covered 66 percent of sickle cell disease hospitalizations in 2004 
and 58 percent of emergency department visits for the disease between 1999 and 
2007. Using Medicaid data from four states with large populations that account 
for more than one-third of Medicaid program enrollment, we examined the 
characteristics of those with sickle cell disease. We found instances of 
mortality rates more than nine times the age-adjusted population average (in 
Texas, a mortality rate for Medicaid enrollees with SCD of 1.11 percent compared 
to 0.12 percent overall); rates of disability-related eligibility-which is 
associated with long-term Medicaid enrollment-of up to 69 percent; and half or 
more of affected enrollees having (all-cause) hospital stays, emergency 
department visits, and opioid prescription fills. With gene therapies on the 
horizon that will spur discussions of treatment coverage, costs, and outcomes 
for people with sickle cell disease, it is important for relevant stakeholders 
to understand the affected populations.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0257796
PMCID: PMC8550393
PMID: 34705847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: bluebird bio and Manatt Health Strategies, LLC 
provided funding for this work. This does not alter our adherence to all PLOS 
One policies on sharing data and materials.


451. PLoS One. 2021 Oct 27;16(10):e0259077. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0259077. 
eCollection 2021.

Global estimated Disability-Adjusted Life-Years (DALYs) of diarrheal diseases: A 
systematic analysis of data from 28 years of the global burden of disease study.

Karambizi NU(1)(2), McMahan CS(3), Blue CN(4), Temesvari LA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Clemson University, Clemson, South 
Carolina, United States of America.
(2)Eukaryotic Pathogens Innovations Center (EPIC), Clemson University, Clemson, 
South Carolina, United States of America.
(3)School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences, Clemson University, Clemson, 
South Carolina, United States of America.
(4)Department of Graphic Communications, Clemson University, Clemson, South 
Carolina, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Diarrheal disease (DD)-associated mortality has declined since 1990; 
however, the incidence of DD has experienced a less-pronounced decrease. Thus, 
it is important to track progress in managing DD by following loss of healthy 
years. A disability-adjusted life-year (DALY), which combines data on 
years-of-life lost (YLL) and years-lived with-disability (YLD), is a metric that 
can track such a burden.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Using all 28 years of data in the Global Burden of 
Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2017, we compared DD DALYs 
among different demographic subsets including sex, age, country, and World Bank 
(WB) income level. We also evaluated DD DALYs as a function of the 
socio-demographic index (SDI), a measure of a region's socio-demographic 
development. On a global level, DD DALYs have decreased by approximately 85.43% 
from 1990 to 2017. Incidence and prevalence have decreased by 1.53% and 4.45%, 
respectively. A dramatic decrease in DD DALYs were observed for WB low-income 
countries, but not for WB high-income constituents. The temporal decrease in DD 
DALY rates in WB low-income countries was likely driven by a decrease in YLL. 
Alternatively, temporal increases in both YLL and YLD may have contributed to 
the apparent lack of progress in WB high-income countries. Regardless of WB 
income classification, children under the age of five and the elderly were the 
most vulnerable to DD. In nearly every year from 1990 to 2017, DD DALYs for 
females were higher than those for males in WB high-income regions, but lower 
than those for males in WB low-income constituents. The reason for these 
differences is not known. We also observed that the rate of DD DALYs was highly 
correlated to SDI regardless of WB income classification.
CONCLUSIONS: To the best of our knowledge, this is the only temporal study of DD 
DALYs that encompasses all 28 years of data available from the GBD. Overall, our 
analyses show that temporal reductions in DD DALYs are not equivalent across 
regions, sexes and age groups. Therefore, careful attention to local and 
demography-specific risk factors will be necessary to tailor solutions in 
region- and demography-specific manners.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0259077
PMCID: PMC8550424
PMID: 34705878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


452. PLoS Pathog. 2021 Oct 27;17(10):e1010013. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1010013.
 eCollection 2021 Oct.

Novel regulators of PrPC biosynthesis revealed by genome-wide RNA interference.

Heinzer D(1), Avar M(1), Pease DP(1), Dhingra A(2), Yin JA(1), Schaper E(1), 
Doğançay B(1), Emmenegger M(1), Spinelli A(1), Maggi K(1), Chincisan A(1), Mead 
S(3), Hornemann S(1), Heutink P(2), Aguzzi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuropathology, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Tübingen, Germany.
(3)MRC Prion Unit at UCL, Institute of Prion Diseases, London, United Kingdom.

The cellular prion protein PrPC is necessary for prion replication, and its 
reduction greatly increases life expectancy in animal models of prion infection. 
Hence the factors controlling the levels of PrPC may represent therapeutic 
targets against human prion diseases. Here we performed an arrayed 
whole-transcriptome RNA interference screen to identify modulators of PrPC 
expression. We cultured human U251-MG glioblastoma cells in the presence of 
64'752 unique siRNAs targeting 21'584 annotated human genes, and measured PrPC 
using a one-pot fluorescence-resonance energy transfer immunoassay in 51'128 
individual microplate wells. This screen yielded 743 candidate regulators of 
PrPC. When downregulated, 563 of these candidates reduced and 180 enhanced PrPC 
expression. Recursive candidate attrition through multiple secondary screens 
yielded 54 novel regulators of PrPC, 9 of which were confirmed by CRISPR 
interference as robust regulators of PrPC biosynthesis and degradation. The 
phenotypes of 6 of the 9 candidates were inverted in response to transcriptional 
activation using CRISPRa. The RNA-binding post-transcriptional repressor 
Pumilio-1 was identified as a potent limiter of PrPC expression through the 
degradation of PRNP mRNA. Because of its hypothesis-free design, this 
comprehensive genetic-perturbation screen delivers an unbiased landscape of the 
genes regulating PrPC levels in cells, most of which were unanticipated, and 
some of which may be amenable to pharmacological targeting in the context of 
antiprion therapies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1010013
PMCID: PMC8575309
PMID: 34705895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


453. Biochimie. 2022 Feb;193:78-89. doi: 10.1016/j.biochi.2021.10.012. Epub 2021
Oct  24.

Pathogenic role of mitogen activated protein kinases in protozoan parasites.

Kaur P(1), Goyal N(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biochemistry and Structural Biology, CSIR-Central Drug Research 
Institute, Sector 10, Jankipuram Extension, Sitapur Road, Lucknow, 226031, Uttar 
Pradesh, India.
(2)Division of Biochemistry and Structural Biology, CSIR-Central Drug Research 
Institute, Sector 10, Jankipuram Extension, Sitapur Road, Lucknow, 226031, Uttar 
Pradesh, India. Electronic address: neenacdri@yahoo.com.

Protozoan parasites with complex life cycles have high mortality rates affecting 
billions of human lives. Available anti-parasitic drugs are inadequate due to 
variable efficacy, toxicity, poor patient compliance and drug-resistance. Hence, 
there is an urgent need for the development of safer and better 
chemotherapeutics. Mitogen Activated Protein Kinases (MAPKs) have drawn much 
attention as potential drug targets. This review summarizes unique structural 
and functional features of MAP kinases and their possible role in pathogenesis 
of obligate intracellular protozoan parasites namely, Leishmania, Trypanosoma, 
Plasmodium and Toxoplasma. It also provides an overview of available knowledge 
concerning the target proteins of parasite MAPKs and the need to understand and 
unravel unknown interaction network(s) of MAPK(s).

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biochi.2021.10.012
PMID: 34706251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest We have no 
conflict of interest to declare.


454. J Affect Disord. 2021 Dec 1;295:831-838. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2021.08.076.
Epub  2021 Aug 31.

Contributions of specific causes of death by age to the shorter life expectancy 
in depression: a register-based observational study from Denmark, Finland, 
Sweden and Italy.

Korhonen K(1), Moustgaard H(2), Tarkiainen L(2), Östergren O(3), Costa G(4), 
Urhoj SK(5), Martikainen P(6).

Author information:
(1)Population Research Unit, Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Helsinki, 
Helsinki, Finland, P.O. Box 18, 00014 Helsinki, Finland. Electronic address: 
kaarina.korhonen@helsinki.fi.
(2)Population Research Unit, Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Helsinki, 
Helsinki, Finland, P.O. Box 18, 00014 Helsinki, Finland; Helsinki Institute of 
Urban and Regional Studies (URBARIA), University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland, 
Yliopistonkatu 3, 00100 Helsinki, Finland.
(3)Department of Public Health Sciences, Stockholm University, Stockholm, 
Sweden, SE - 106 91 Stockholm, Sweden; Aging Research Center, Karolinska 
Institutet, Solna, Sweden, Tomtebodavägen 18a, SE-171 65 Solna, Sweden.
(4)Epidemiology Unit, Regional Health Service ASL TO3, Turin, Italy, Via 
Sabaudia 164, Grugliasco (TO), Italy.
(5)Section of Epidemiology, Department of Public Health, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark, Oster Farimagsgade 5, P.O. Box 2099, 1014 
København K, Denmark.
(6)Population Research Unit, Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Helsinki, 
Helsinki, Finland, P.O. Box 18, 00014 Helsinki, Finland; Department of Public 
Health Sciences, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden, SE - 106 91 Stockholm, 
Sweden; Laboratory of Population Health, Max Planck Institute for Demographic 
Research, Rostock, Germany, Konrad-Zuse-Str. 1, 18057 Rostock, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The reasons for the shorter life expectancy of people with 
depression may vary by age. We quantified the contributions of specific causes 
of death by age to the life-expectancy gap in four European countries.
METHODS: Using register-based cohort data, we calculated annual mortality rates 
in between 1993 and 2007 for psychiatric inpatients with depression identified 
from hospital-care registers in Denmark, Finland and Sweden, and between 2000 
and 2007 for antidepressant-treated outpatients identified from medication 
registers in Finland and Turin, Italy. We decomposed the life-expectancy gap at 
age 15 years by age and cause of death.
RESULTS: The life-expectancy gap was especially large for psychiatric inpatients 
(12.1 to 21.0 years) but substantial also for antidepressant-treated outpatients 
(6.3 to 14.2 years). Among psychiatric inpatients, the gap was largely 
attributable to unnatural deaths below age 55 years. The overall contribution 
was largest for suicide in Sweden (43 to 45%) and Finland (37 to 40%). In 
Denmark, 'other diseases' (25 to 34%) and alcohol-attributable causes (10 to 
18%) had especially large contributions. Among antidepressant-treated 
outpatients, largest contributions were observed for suicide (18% for men) and 
circulatory deaths (23% for women) in Finland, and cancer deaths in Turin (29 to 
36%). Natural deaths were concentrated at ages above 65 years.
LIMITATIONS: The indication of antidepressant prescription could not be 
ascertained from the medication registers.
CONCLUSIONS: Interventions should be directed to self-harm and substance use 
problems among younger psychiatric inpatients and antidepressant-treated young 
men. Rigorous monitoring and treatment of comorbid somatic conditions and 
disease risk factors may increase life expectancy for antidepressant-treated 
outpatients, especially women.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2021.08.076
PMID: 34706453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Stroke. 2022 Feb;53(2):488-496. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.121.034279. Epub 2021
Oct  28.

Long-Term Impact of Urgent Secondary Prevention After Transient Ischemic Attack 
and Minor Stroke: Ten-Year Follow-Up of the EXPRESS Study.

Luengo-Fernandez R(1), Li L(1), Silver L(1), Gutnikov S(1), Beddows NC(1), 
Rothwell PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Wolfson Centre for the Prevention of Stroke and Dementia, Nuffield Department 
of Clinical Neurosciences, John Radcliffe Hospital, University of Oxford, United 
Kingdom.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Urgent assessment aimed at reducing stroke risk after 
transient ischemic attack or minor stroke is cost-effective over the short-term. 
However, it is unclear if the short-term impact is lost on long-term follow-up, 
with recurrent events being delayed rather than prevented. By 10-year follow-up 
of the EXPRESS study (Early Use of Existing Preventive Strategies for Stroke), 
previously showing urgent assessment reduced 90-day stroke risk by 80%, we 
determined whether that early benefit was still evident long-term for stroke 
risk, disability, and costs.
METHODS: EXPRESS was a prospective population-based before (phase 1: April 
2002-September 2004; n=310) versus after (phase 2: October 2004-March 2007; 
n=281) study of the effect of early assessment and treatment of transient 
ischemic attack/minor stroke on early recurrent stroke risk, with an external 
control. This report assesses the effect on 10-year recurrent stroke risk, 
functional outcomes, quality-of-life, and costs.
RESULTS: A reduction in stroke risk in phase 2 was still evident at 10 years 
(55/23.3% versus 82/31.6%; hazard ratio=0.68 [95% CI, 0.48-0.95]; P=0.024), as 
was the impact on risk of disabling or fatal stroke (17/7.7% versus 32/13.1%; 
hazard ratio=0.54 [0.30-0.97]; P=0.036). These effects were due to maintenance 
of the early reduction in stroke risk, with neither additional benefit nor 
rebound catch-up after 90 days (post-90 days hazard ratio=0.88 [0.65-1.44], 
P=0.88; and hazard ratio=0.83 [0.42-1.65], P=0.59, respectively). 
Disability-free life expectancy was 0.59 (0.03-1.15; P=0.043) years higher in 
patients in phase 2, as was quality-adjusted life expectancy (0.49 [0.03-0.95]; 
P=0.036). Overall, 10-year costs were nonsignificantly higher in patients 
attending the phase 2 clinic ($1022 [-3865-5907]; P=0.66). The additional cost 
per quality-adjusted life year gained in phase 2 versus phase 1 was $2103, well 
below current cost-effectiveness thresholds.
CONCLUSIONS: Urgent assessment and treatment of patients with transient ischemic 
attack or minor stroke resulted in a long-term reduction in recurrent strokes 
and improved outcomes, with little atrophy of the early benefit over time, 
representing good value for money even with a 10-year time horizon. Our results 
suggest that other effective acute treatments in transient ischemic attack/minor 
stroke in the short-term will also have the potential to have long-term benefit.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.121.034279
PMCID: PMC8785519
PMID: 34706563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. BMC Public Health. 2021 Oct 27;21(1):1950. doi: 10.1186/s12889-021-11988-y.

Is it worth it? Cost-effectiveness analysis of a commercial physical activity 
app.

Rondina R(1), Hong M(2), Sarma S(2), Mitchell M(3).

Author information:
(1)Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. 
renante.rondina@rotman.utoronto.ca.
(2)Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Western University, London, ON, 
Canada.
(3)Faculty of Health Sciences, Western University, London, ON, Canada. 
marc.mitchell@uwo.ca.

BACKGROUND: Government interest in investing in commercial physical activity 
apps has increased with little evidence of their cost-effectiveness. This is the 
first study to our knowledge to examine the cost-effectiveness of a commercial 
physical activity app (Carrot Rewards) despite there being over 100,000 in the 
major app stores.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed to calculate the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of the app compared to a 
no-intervention reference scenario using a five-year time horizon. Primary data 
was collected between 2016 and 2017. Data synthesis, model creation, and 
statistical analyses were conducted between 2019 and 2020. An age-, sex-, and 
geography-dependent Markov model was developed assuming a public healthcare 
payer perspective. A closed cohort (n = 38,452) representing the population 
reached by Carrot Rewards in two Canadian provinces (British Columbia, 
Newfoundland & Labrador) at the time of a 12-month prospective study was used. 
Costs and effects were both discounted at 1.5% and expressed in 2015 Canadian 
dollars. Subgroup analyses were conducted to compare ICERs between provinces, 
sexes, age groups, and engagement levels.
RESULTS: Carrot Rewards had an ICER of $11,113 CAD per quality adjusted life 
year (QALY), well below a $50,000 CAD per QALY willingness-to-pay (WTP) 
threshold. Subgroup analyses revealed that the app had lower ICERs for British 
Columbians, females, highly engaged users, and adults aged 35-64 yrs., and was 
dominant for older adults (65 + yrs). Deterministic sensitivity analyses 
revealed that the ICER was most influenced by the relative risk of diabetes. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analyses revealed varying parameter estimates 
predominantly resulted in ICERs below the WTP threshold.
CONCLUSIONS: The Carrot Rewards app was cost-effective, and dominant for older 
adults. These results provide, for the first time, rigorous health economic 
evidence for a commercial physical activity app as part of public health 
programming.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-021-11988-y
PMCID: PMC8548862
PMID: 34706689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MM received consulting fees from Carrot Insights 
Inc., makers of the Carrot Rewards app, from 2015 to 2018 as well as travel 
re-imbursement in January and March 2019. MM had stock options in the company as 
well but these are now void since Carrot Insights Inc. went out of business in 
June 2019. RR was employed as a research intern by Carrot Insights Inc. from 
March 2018 to July 2018, and completed a Mitacs postdoctoral fellowship at the 
company from February 2019 to June 2019. MH and SS declare that they have no 
conflicts of interests.


457. Aust Health Rev. 2022 Feb;46(1):85-90. doi: 10.1071/AH21069.

Back2Work: a new model of early vocational rehabilitation for people with spinal 
cord injury.

McLennan V(1), Dorsett P(1), Bloom J(1), Goossen T(2), Porter F(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences and Social Work, Griffith University, Gold Coast, 
Qld 4222, Australia.
(2)Spinal Life Australia, Brisbane, Qld 4102, Australia.

Objective The aim of this article is to describe the development of a novel 
evidence-based model of early intervention vocational rehabilitation (EIVR) for 
people with spinal cord injury (SCI). Methods An extensive literature review and 
background study guided the collaboration of experienced practitioners and 
researchers in developing and evaluating the innovative Back2Work model of EIVR 
for people with SCI in Queensland, Australia. The program is undergoing 
longitudinal mixed-methods evaluation to the end of 2023. Results The model is 
central to the successful implementation of the EIVR program, delivered by 
rehabilitation counsellors in the Queensland Spinal Injuries Unit. Back2Work 
includes a strong focus on maintaining and nurturing the pre-injury occupational 
bond between injured workers and employers, and aims to create a positive 
expectation for return to work (RTW) and increase the rate and timeliness of RTW 
after SCI. Conclusions The Back2Work program has become an integrated component 
of the multidisciplinary rehabilitation team, with positive early results in RTW 
outcomes and additional benefits in participants' sense of well-being and hope. 
What is known about the topic? Vocational intervention after SCI has 
traditionally been delivered after hospital discharge and considered outside the 
scope of early intervention approaches. Emerging evidence suggests EIVR, 
commencing before hospital discharge, can encourage hope and a positive 
expectancy for employment after SCI, and is showing promising outcomes in 
supporting people's quality of life and vocational goals. What does this paper 
add? This article details the process and product of developing and evaluating a 
novel EIVR model for people with SCI. The model underpins the Back2Work EIVR 
program being trialled in the Queensland Spinal Injuries Unit, an example of 
this emerging field of practice within the primary rehabilitation setting. What 
are the implications for practitioners? The Back2Work program is based on an 
innovative and evidence-based model of EIVR for people with SCI. The 
collaborative and empirically driven process of developing, implementing and 
evaluating the model will be of interest to researchers and practitioners 
looking to advance practices in vocational rehabilitation after serious injury.

DOI: 10.1071/AH21069
PMID: 34706809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. BMJ Open. 2021 Oct 27;11(10):e053124. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-053124.

Palliative care for people who use substances during communicable disease 
epidemics and pandemics: a scoping review protocol.

Buchman DZ(1)(2)(3), Ding P(4), Lo S(4), Dosani N(5)(6), Fazelzad R(7), Furlan 
AD(8)(9)(10), Isenberg SR(11)(12), Spithoff S(13)(14), Tedesco A(6)(15), 
Zimmermann C(4)(9)(16)(17), Lau J(4)(14)(16).

Author information:
(1)Bioethics, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
daniel.buchman@utoronto.ca.
(2)Clinical Public Health, Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Joint Centre for Bioethics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Department of Supportive Care, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(5)Department of Medicine, Unity Health Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Inner City Health Associates, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Library and Information Services, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University 
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(8)Toronto Rehab, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(9)Department of Medicine, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(10)Institute for Work & Health, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(11)Bruyere Research Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(12)Department of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(13)Women's College Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(14)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(15)Sinai Health System, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(16)Division of Palliative Care, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(17)Division of Palliative Medicine, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: Communicable disease epidemics and pandemics magnify the health 
inequities experienced by marginalised populations. People who use substances 
suffer from high rates of morbidity and mortality and should be a priority to 
receive palliative care, yet they encounter many barriers to palliative care 
access. Given the pre-existing inequities to palliative care access for people 
with life-limiting illnesses who use substances, it is important to understand 
the impact of communicable disease epidemics and pandemics such as COVID-19 on 
this population.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We will conduct a scoping review and report according to 
the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension 
for Scoping Reviews reporting guidelines. We conducted a comprehensive 
literature search in seven bibliographical databases from the inception of each 
database to August 2020. We also performed a grey literature search to identify 
the publications not indexed in the bibliographical databases. All the searches 
will be rerun in April 2021 to retrieve recently published information because 
the COVID-19 pandemic is ongoing at the time of this writing. We will extract 
the quantitative data using a standardised data extraction form and summarise it 
using descriptive statistics. Additionally, we will conduct thematic qualitative 
analyses and present our findings as narrative summaries.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethics approval is not required for a scoping review. 
We will disseminate our findings to healthcare providers and policymakers 
through professional networks, digital communications through social media 
platforms, conference presentations and publication in a scientific journal.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-053124
PMCID: PMC8551744
PMID: 34706961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: AF receives an unrestricted 
educational grant to maintain the online opioid self-assessment programme from 
the Canadian Generic Pharmaceutical Association (CGPA). AF is the inventor of 
the App Opioid Manager, which is sold in iTunes. The app is owned by UHN, the 
hospital where AF works and AF does not receive any profits from the app sales. 
AF has a YouTube monetised channel and receives payment for advertisements on 
the channel. There are some videos related to opioids in her channel. All other 
authors report no competing interests.


459. Zhong Nan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2021 Sept 28;46(9):989-995. doi: 
10.11817/j.issn.1672-7347.2021.210336.

Cochlear implantation in prelingually deafened patients: Evaluation in hearing, 
speech ability, and quality of life.

[Article in Chinese, English; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Wu M(1)(2), Li H(3)(4), Li S(5), Wu W(5), Xie D(5), Lai R(5).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Nursing Teaching and Research Section, Second Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University, Changsha 410011. wumengbo@csu.edu.cn.
(2)Xiangya Nursing School, Central South University, Changsha 410013, China. 
wumengbo@csu.edu.cn.
(3)Clinical Nursing Teaching and Research Section, Second Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University, Changsha 410011. lhlihuan@csu.edu.cn.
(4)Xiangya Nursing School, Central South University, Changsha 410013, China. 
lhlihuan@csu.edu.cn.
(5)Clinical Nursing Teaching and Research Section, Second Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University, Changsha 410011.

OBJECTIVES: The main purpose of cochlear implantation for prelingual deafness is 
to restore the deaf children's auditory function, obtain normal speech 
development, learning and social ability, and improve the quality of life. 
Previous studies mostly focused on the improvement of simple hearing or speech 
ability. This study aims to evaluate the changes of hearing and speech ability 
and family life quality of patients after cochlear implantation, and to explore 
the effect of cochlear implantation on hearing and speech rehabilitation of 
patients.
METHODS: In February 2021, using the convenient sampling method, 171 patients 
who have completed cochlear implantation were selected from the database of 
cochlear implantation follow-up center of a class III Tertiary hospital in Hunan 
Province. Questionnaires were used to investigate the patients' parents, which 
were Categories of Auditory Performance (CAP), Speech/Spatial and Qualities of 
Hearing Scale-Parents' Version (SSQ-P), and Children using Hearing Implants 
Quality of Life (CuHI-QoL). T-test and analysis of variance were used to explore 
the postoperative auditory and speech ability of patients at different ages in 
different periods (<2.5-year group, 2.5-4.5-year group and >4.5-year group), and 
Pearson correlation analysis was used to explore the correlation. Multiple 
linear regression was used to explore the relationship between the dimension of 
patients' quality of life and the scores of scale for evaluating auditory 
ability (CAP, speech perception, spatial hearing, and other hearing 
characteristics).
RESULTS: The values of CAP and SSQ-P in the <2.5-year group were lower than 
those in the 2.5-4.5-year and >4.5-year groups (all P<0.05). Pearson correlation 
analysis showed that postoperative years and CuHI-QoL scores (parental 
expectations and patients' quality of life) were positively correlated with 
score of CAP, SSQ-P and its dimension, respectively (all P<0.05). The results of 
multiple linear regression analysis showed the CAP scores and speech perception 
were the influencing factors for the quality of life (R2=0.170, P<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Two and a half years after operation is the rapid growth period of 
patients' hearing and language ability, and the growth rate becomes slow after 
stabilization. With the extension of postoperative years, the patients' hearing 
and speech ability becomes stronger, and the quality of life is better.

Publisher: 目的: 
人工耳蜗植入的主要目的是恢复语前聋患儿听觉功能，使其获得正常的言语发育、学习和社交能力，改善其生活质量。以往的研究多集中于单纯听觉或言语能力的改善。本研究评估人工耳蜗植入术后患者听觉言语能力及生活质量的变化情况，探索人工耳蜗植入术对患者听觉言语康复效果的影响。方法: 
2021年2月采用便利抽样法，在湖南省某三级甲等医院人工耳蜗植入随访中心数据库中抽取171例人工耳蜗植入术后的患者为观察对象，采用听觉行为分级量表(Categories 
of Auditory Performance，CAP)、父母版言语空间特性问卷(Speech/Spatial and Qualities of Hearing 
Scale-Parents' Version，SSQ-P)、听力植入体使用儿童的家庭生活质量问卷(Children Using Hearing Implants 
Quality of 
Life，CuHI-QoL)对入选青少年患者家属进行调查。采用t检验与方差分析探讨不同年龄段(<2.5岁组、2.5~4.5岁组与>4.5岁年组)在术后不同时段(<2.5年组、2.5~4.5年组与>4.5年组)患者的听觉言语能力及家庭生活质量的变化情况；采用Pearson相关分析探讨其相关性；采用多元线性回归分析探讨患者生活质量与评价听觉能力的量表(CAP、言语感知、空间听力、其他听力特征)得分的关系。结果: 
术后<2.5年组的患者CAP和SSQ-P评分均低于2.5~4.5年组与>4.5年组(均P<0.05)。Pearson相关分析结果显示术后年限和CuHI-QoL评分(父母期望、生活质量)分别与CAP、SSQ-P及其维度评分呈正相关(均P<0.05)，多元线性回归分析结果示CAP评分和言语感知能力是生活质量的影响因素(R2=0.170，P<0.01)。结论: 
术后2.5年为患者听觉语言能力的增长期，稳定后增长速度变缓。随着术后年限的延长，患者的听觉言语能力逐渐增强，生活质量逐步提高。.

DOI: 10.11817/j.issn.1672-7347.2021.210336
PMID: 34707009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Exp Ther Med. 2021 Dec;22(6):1428. doi: 10.3892/etm.2021.10863. Epub 2021
Oct  11.

Uveal melanoma diagnosis and current treatment options (Review).

Branisteanu DC(1), Bogdanici CM(1), Branisteanu DE(2), Maranduca MA(3), Zemba 
M(4), Balta F(4), Branisteanu CI(5), Moraru AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, 'Grigore T. Popa' University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(2)Department of Dermatology, 'Grigore T. Popa' University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(3)Department of Physiology, 'Grigore T. Popa' University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, 'Carol Davila' University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, 050474 Bucharest, Romania.
(5)'Grigore T. Popa' University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 700115 Iasi, Romania.

Uveal melanoma is a rare condition accounting for only 5% of all primary 
melanoma cases. Still, it is the most frequently diagnosed primary intraocular 
malignant tumor in adults. Almost 90% of the tumors involve the choroid and only 
a small percentage affects the ciliary body or the iris. There is a consistent 
difference in incidence between different regions with individuals of northern 
European descent having a significantly higher risk as compared to Hispanics, 
Asians, and Blacks. Among the many risk factors, mutations in the G protein 
subunit alpha Q (GNAQ) or G protein subunit alpha 11 (GNA11) genes and different 
receptors are highly suggestive. While iris melanoma can easily be noticed by 
the patient itself or diagnosed at a routine slit-lamp evaluation, a consistent 
percentage of posterior uveal tumors are incidentally diagnosed at funduscopic 
evaluation as they can evolve silently for years, especially if located in the 
periphery. Uveal melanoma classifications rely on the tumor size (thickness and 
basal diameter) and also on intraocular and extraocular extension. The 
differential diagnosis with pseudomelanomas is carried out according to the 
tumor aspect and position. Iris melanoma has a better prognosis and a lower 
mortality rate as compared to choroidal melanoma that has a much higher rate of 
metastasis (50% of the patients) and a subsequent limited life expectancy from 6 
to 12 months. While conservative therapeutic options for the primary tumor, 
relying on different surgical excision techniques and/or irradiation therapies, 
offer good local tumor control, the treatment options for metastatic disease, 
although numerous, are still inadequate in preventing a fatal outcome.

Copyright: © Branisteanu et al.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2021.10863
PMCID: PMC8543295
PMID: 34707709

Conflict of interest statement: All the authors declare that they have no 
competing interests.


461. Ann Vasc Dis. 2021 Sep 25;14(3):236-243. doi: 10.3400/avd.oa.21-00045.

Influence of Microalbuminuria on Long-Term Survival and Cardiovascular or Limb 
Events in Peripheral Arterial Disease.

Nakashima K(1), Kumakura H(2), Funada R(2), Matsuo Y(2), Sakata K(1), Ichikawa 
A(3), Iwasaki T(2), Ichikawa S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Cardiovascular Hospital of Central 
Japan (Kitakanto Cardiovascular Hospital), Shibukawa, Gunma, Japan.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Cardiovascular Hospital of Central 
Japan (Kitakanto Cardiovascular Hospital), Shibukawa, Gunma, Japan.
(3)Department of Nephrology, Cardiovascular Hospital of Central Japan (Kitakanto 
Cardiovascular Hospital), Shibukawa, Gunma, Japan.

Objective: This study aimed to examine the relationship between microalbuminuria 
and long-term life expectancy or limb events in patients with peripheral 
arterial disease (PAD). Materials and Methods: A prospective cohort study was 
performed in 714 patients with PAD. The primary outcomes were cardiovascular or 
cerebrovascular death (CCVD) and all-cause death (AD), and secondary outcomes 
were major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and cardiovascular and/or limb 
events (CVLE). Results: The 5, 10, and 15 year survival rates were 82.4%, 53.1%, 
and 33.0%, respectively. The prevalence of patients with increased 
microalbuminuria was 39.2%. Higher microalbuminuria, age, C-reactive protein 
(CRP), lower serum albumin, estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), 
ankle-brachial pressure index (ABI), diabetes, cerebral infarction, and coronary 
heart disease (CHD) were associated with CCVD; higher microalbuminuria, age, 
CRP, D-dimer, lower serum albumin, eGFR, and critical limb ischemia were related 
to AD; higher microalbuminuria, age, CRP, lower serum albumin, ABI, diabetes, 
and CHD were related to MACE; higher microalbuminuria, age, lower ABI, cerebral 
infarction, and CHD were related to CVLE in Cox multivariate analyses (p<0.05). 
Statins reduced CCVD, AD, MACE, and CVLE (p<0.001). Conclusion: Higher 
microalbuminuria was a significant predictor for CCVD, AD, MACE, and CVLE in PAD 
patients.

© 2021 The Editorial Committee of Annals of Vascular Diseases.

DOI: 10.3400/avd.oa.21-00045
PMCID: PMC8474086
PMID: 34707745

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure StatementAll authors have no conflict 
of interest.


462. Ther Adv Drug Saf. 2021 Oct 22;12:20420986211052343. doi: 
10.1177/20420986211052343. eCollection 2021.

Impact of deprescribing dual-purpose medications on patient-related outcomes for 
older adults near end-of-life: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Shrestha S(1), Poudel A(2), Cardona M(3), Steadman KJ(4), Nissen LM(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, The University of Queensland, Pharmacy Australia Centre 
of Excellence, Level 4, 20 Cornwall Street, Woolloongabba, Brisbane, QLD 4102, 
Australia.
(2)School of Clinical Sciences, Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, 
QLD, Australia.
(3)EBP Professorial Unit, Gold Coast University Hospital, Institute for 
Evidence-Based Healthcare, Bond University, Gold Coast, QLD, Australia.
(4)School of Pharmacy, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: The decision to deprescribe medications used for both disease 
prevention and symptom control (dual-purpose medications or DPMs) is often 
challenging for clinicians. We aim to establish the impact of deprescribing DPMs 
on patient-related outcomes for older adults near end-of-life (EOL).
METHODS: This systematic review was conducted according to the PRISMA (Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) guideline. Literature 
was searched on PubMed, EMBASE, CINAHL, PsycINFO and Google Scholar until 
December 2019 for studies on deprescribing intervention with a control group 
(with or without randomisation); targeting ⩾65-year olds, at EOL, with at least 
one life-limiting illness and at least one potentially inappropriate DPM. We 
were interested in any patient-related outcomes. Studies with similar outcome 
assessment criteria were subjected to meta-analysis and narrative synthesis 
otherwise. The risk of bias was assessed using Cochrane Risk of Bias and 
ROBINS-I tools for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi-experimental 
non-randomised controlled studies, respectively.
RESULTS: Five studies covering 689 participants with mean age 81.6-85.7 years, 
the majority (74.6-100%) with dementia were included. The risk of bias was 
moderate to low. The deprescribing of DPMs lowered the risk of mortality (risk 
ratio (RR) = 0.59, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.44-0.79) and referral to 
acute care facilities (RR = 0.40, 95% CI = 0.22-0.73), but did not have a 
significant impact on the risk of falls, non-vertebral fracture, emergency 
presentation, unplanned hospital admission, or general practitioner visits. No 
significant difference was observed in the quality of life, physical and 
cognitive functions between the intervention and control groups.
CONCLUSION: There is some evidence that deprescribing of DPMs for older adults 
near the EOL can lower the risk of mortality and referral to acute care 
facilities, but there are insufficient good-quality studies powered to confirm a 
benefit in terms of quality of life, physical or cognitive function, health 
service utilisation and adverse events.
PLAIN LANGUAGE SUMMARY: What is the health impact of withdrawal or dose 
reduction of medication used for disease prevention and symptom control in older 
adults near end-of-life? Introduction: Older adults (aged ⩾ 65 years) with 
advanced diseases such as cancer, dementia, and organ failure tend to have a 
limited life expectancy. With the progression of these diseases towards the 
end-of-life, the intensity for day-to-day supportive care becomes increasingly 
necessary. The use of medications for symptom management is a critical part of 
such care, but the use of medications for long-term disease prevention can 
become irrelevant due to the already shortened life expectancy and may become 
harmful due to alterations in physiology and pharmacology associated with age 
and frailty. This necessitates the withdrawal or dose reduction of inappropriate 
medications, the process called deprescribing. The decision to deprescribe 
medications used for both disease prevention and symptom control (DPMs) in this 
population is often challenging for clinicians. In this context, whether 
deprescribing of DPMs can improve patient-related health outcomes is 
unknown.Methods: Evidence from the literature was reviewed and analysed, and the 
quality of studies was assessed. Five studies were identified, which had 689 
participants with an average age above 80 years and mostly suffering from 
dementia.Results: The analysis of these studies showed deprescribing of DPMs 
lowered the risk of death and referral to acute care facilities at 12 months but 
had no significant impact on falls, non-vertebral fractures, emergency 
presentations, unplanned hospital admission, general practitioner visits, 
quality of life, physical and mental functions.Conclusion: In conclusion, there 
were insufficient numbers of high-quality studies powered to confirm whether 
deprescribing of DPMs reduces adverse events, health service use, or improves 
the quality of life or functioning in older adults near the end of life.

© The Author(s), 2021.

DOI: 10.1177/20420986211052343
PMCID: PMC8543710
PMID: 34707802

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: The authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: MC was the original 
designer of the CriSTAL tool used in this review to assist in the identification 
