(5)Workplace Health Promotion Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Department of Health and Safety, and Environment 
(HSE), School of Public Health and Safety, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: r.saeedi@sbmu.ac.ir.

Estimating the burden of diseases induced by overexposure to solar ultraviolet 
radiation (SUVR) can help to prioritize environmental health interventions. The 
age-sex specific and cause-specific mortality and disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) attributable to overexposure to SUVR at the national and subnational 
levels in Iran, 2005-2019 were estimated. The burden of disease induced by 
overexposure to SUVR was quantified in four steps as follows: (1) estimating 
exposure to SUVR, (2) estimating total incidences and deaths of target causes, 
(3) assessing population attributable fractions of the target causes for the 
SUVR, and (4) calculating the attributable burden of disease. The attributable 
DALYs, deaths, age-standardized DALY rate, and age-standardized death rate at 
the national level were determined to be respectively 21896, 252, 42.59, and 
0.56 in 2005 and were respectively changed to 28665, 377, 38.76, and 0.53 in 
2019. The contributions of causes in the attributable DALYs at the national 
level were different by year and sex and for both sexes in 2019 were as follows: 
46.15% for cataract, 20.36% for malignant skin melanoma, 16.07% for sunburn, 
12.41% for squamous-cell carcinoma, and 5.01% for the other five causes. The 
contributions of population growth, population ageing, risk exposure, and 
risk-deleted DALY rate in the temporal variations of the attributable burden of 
disease in the country were +20.73%, +20.68%, +2.01%, and -12.51%. The highest 
and lowest provincial attributable age-standardized DALY rates in 2019 were 
observed in Fars (46.8) and Ardebil (32.7), respectively. The burden of disease 
induced by exposure to SUVR caused relatively low geographical inequality in 
health status in Iran. Due to increasing trends of the SUVR as well as the 
attributable burden of disease, the preventive interventions against the SUVR 
overexposure should be considered in the public health action plan all across 
the country.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2021.118411
PMID: 34718085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2022 Jul 6;61(7):2978-2986. doi: 
10.1093/rheumatology/keab804.

Global, regional and national trends in sex- and age-specific 
disability-adjusted life years of musculoskeletal disorders, 1990-2019.

Jin Z(1), Feng X(1), Wang D(1), Zhu Y(1), Liang J(1), Zhang H(1), Zhao J(2), Sun 
L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, 
Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University Medical School.
(2)Department of Center for Global Health, School of Public Health, Nanjing 
Medical University, Nanjing, China.

OBJECTIVE: To quantify the temporal trend of sex- and age-specific 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) for musculoskeletal (MSK) disorders by 
region and cause.
METHODS: Data were collected from the Global Burden of Diseases Study 2019. The 
estimated annual percentage change (EAPC) by sex, age, region and cause was 
calculated to examine the temporal trend of the age-standardized DALYs rate 
(ASDR). The sociodemographic index (SDI) and risk exposures were also examined.
RESULTS: Between 1990 and 2019, the global ASDR for MSK disorders remained 
almost stable by sex and age group but decreased among females ages 0-14 years 
(EAPC = -0.27). Such age and sex patterns were nearly the same by SDI, except 
for high SDI regions, where ASDR increased in all subgroups except those ages 
15-49 years. The trend in ASDR of MSK disorders for females and males ages 50-74 
and ≥75 years increased in ∼80% of countries and territories. The greatest 
increase was in El Salvador for males ages 15-49 years (EAPC = 1.30), followed 
by Nicaragua. The association between EAPC and SDI was positive in developing 
regions, particularly among females ages 15-49 years, and negative in developed 
regions. A decreasing trend in ASDR was mainly driven by the decrease in low 
back pain, while the increasing trend was largely due to other MSK disorders and 
gout across sexes and age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: There are great disparities in the age- and sex-specific trends in 
ASDR by cause on the global, regional and national levels. More differentiated 
prevention and management strategies are needed for MSK disorders.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Society for Rheumatology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/keab804
PMID: 34718432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2022 Apr 1;77(4):803-814. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbab201.

The Growing Socioeconomic Gap in Lifetime Social Security Retirement Benefits: 
Current and Future Retirees.

Tamborini CR(1)(2), Reznik GL(1), Iams HM(1), Couch KA(3).

Author information:
(1)Office of Research, Evaluation, and Statistics, U.S. Social Security 
Administration, Washington, District of Columbia, USA.
(2)Department of Sociology, Catholic University of America, Washington, District 
of Columbia, USA.
(3)Department of Economics, University of Connecticut, Storrs, Connecticut, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Increasing socioeconomic disparities, including in life expectancy, 
have important implications for the U.S. Social Security program. This study 
examined inter- and intracohort trends in Social Security retirement benefits, 
paying special attention to how lifetime benefit trajectories by socioeconomic 
circumstance shift across cohorts encompassing current and future retirees.
METHODS: Using a dynamic microsimulation model based on representative survey 
data linked to administrative records, we developed a set of cohort-specific 
projections that estimate monthly and lifetime Social Security retirement 
benefits for retirees spanning the early baby boom (1945-1954) to Generation X 
(1965-1974) cohorts.
RESULTS: We found a widening socioeconomic gap in projected monthly and lifetime 
benefits for men and women, especially on a lifetime basis. This divergence is 
associated with stagnation of benefit levels among lower socioeconomic status 
groups coupled with upward shifts among higher strata groups. Distributional 
changes are linked with increasing differential mortality, but other factors 
also likely play a role such as rising education premiums, growing earnings 
inequality, and changes in women's work and relationship histories.
DISCUSSION: Widening mortality differentials can lead to distributional changes 
in the U.S. Social Security program. Microsimulation methodology lends insights 
into how the socioeconomic gap in monthly and lifetime benefit distributions may 
change among future older Americans in the context of differential mortality and 
other demographic changes. Moving forward in time, these complex patterns could 
offset some of the progressivity built into the system.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbab201
PMID: 34718554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Planta. 2021 Oct 30;254(6):111. doi: 10.1007/s00425-021-03771-5.

Traditional in vitro strategies for sustainable production of bioactive 
compounds and manipulation of metabolomic profile in medicinal, aromatic and 
ornamental plants.

Niazian M(1), Sabbatini P(2).

Author information:
(1)Field and Horticultural Crops Research Department, Kurdistan Agricultural and 
Natural Resources Research and Education Center, Agricultural Research, 
Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Jam-e Jam Cross Way, P. O. Box 
741, Sanandaj, Iran. mniazian@ut.ac.ir.
(2)Department of Horticulture, Michigan State University, Plant and Soil 
Sciences Building, East Lansing, MI, 48824, USA.

Precursor feeding, elicitation and culture medium parameters are traditional in 
vitro strategies to enhance bioactive compounds of medicinal, aromatic, and 
ornamental plants (MAOPs). Machine learning can help researchers find the best 
combination of these strategies to increase the secondary metabolites content of 
MAOPs. Many requirements for human life, from food, pharmaceuticals and 
cosmetics to clothes, fuel and building materials depend on plant-derived 
natural products. Essential oils, methanolic and ethanolic extracts of in vitro 
undifferentiated callus and organogenic cultures of medicinal, aromatic, and 
ornamental plants (MAOPs) contain bioactive compounds that have several 
applications for various industries, including food and pharmaceutical. In vitro 
culture systems provide opportunities to manipulate the metabolomic profile of 
MAOPs. Precursors feeding, elicitation and culture media optimization are the 
traditional strategies to enhance in vitro accumulation of favorable bioactive 
compounds. The stimulation of plant defense mechanisms through biotic and 
abiotic elicitors is a simple way to increase the production of secondary 
metabolites in different in vitro culture systems. Different elicitors have been 
applied to stimulate defense machinery and change the metabolomic profile of 
MAOPs in in vitro cultures. Plant growth regulators (PGRs), stress hormones, 
chitosan, microbial extracts and physical stresses are the most applied 
elicitors in this regard. Many other chemical tolerance-enhancer additives, such 
as melatonin and proline, have been applied along with stress response-inducing 
elicitors. The use of stress-inducing materials such as PEG and NaCl activates 
stress tolerance elicitors with the potential of increasing secondary 
metabolites content of MAOPs. The present study reviewed the state-of-the-art 
traditional in vitro strategies to manipulate bioactive compounds of MAOPs. The 
objective is to provide insights to researchers involved in in vitro production 
of plant-derived natural compounds. The present review provided a wide range of 
traditional strategies to increase the accumulation of valuable bioactive 
compounds of MAOPs in different in vitro systems. Traditional strategies are 
faster, simpler, and cost-effective than other biotechnology-based breeding 
methods such as genetic transformation, genome editing, metabolic pathways 
engineering, and synthetic biology. The integrate application of precursors and 
elicitors along with culture media optimization and the interpretation of their 
interactions through machine learning algorithms could provide an excellent 
opportunity for large-scale in vitro production of pharmaceutical bioactive 
compounds.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00425-021-03771-5
PMID: 34718882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Iran Biomed J. 2021 Nov 1;25(6):399-407. doi: 10.52547/ibj.25.6.399.

Evaluation of Outer Membrane Vesicles Obtained from Predominant Local Isolate of 
Boredetella pertussis as a Vaccine Candidate.

Soltani MS(1), Noofeli M(2), Banihashemi SR(3), Shahcheraghi F(4), Eftekhar 
F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Microbial Biotechnology, Faculty of Life 
Sciences and Biotechnology, Shahid Beheshti University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Human Bacterial Vaccines Production and Research, Razi Vaccine 
and Serum Research Institute, Agricultural Research, Education and Extension 
Organization (AREEO), Karaj, Iran.
(3)Department of Immunology, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, 
Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Karaj, 
Iran.
(4)Department of Bacteriology, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Pertussis is a current contagious bacterial disease caused by 
Bordetella pertussis (Bp). Given the prevalence of pertussis, development of new 
vaccines is important. This study was attempted to evaluate the expression of 
main virulence factors (pertussis toxin [PTX], PRN [pertactin], and filamentous 
hemagglutinin [FHA]) from Bp predominant strains and also compare the expression 
of these factors in the outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) obtained from predominant 
circulating Bp isolate.
METHODS: The physicochemical features of the prepared OMVs were analyzed by 
electron microscopy and SDS-PAGE. The presence of the mentioned virulence 
factors was confirmed by Western blotting. BALB/c mice (n = 21) immunized with 
characterized OMVs were challenged intranasally with sublethal doses of Bp, to 
examine their protective capacity.
RESULTS: Electron microscopic examination of the OMVs indicated vesicles within 
the range of 40 to 200 nm. SDS-PAGE and Western blotting demonstrated the 
expression of all three main protective immunogens (PTX, PRN, and FHA), 
prevalent in the predominant, challenge, and vaccine strains, and OMVs of the 
predominant IR37 strain and BP134 vaccine strain. Significant differences were 
observed in lung bacterial counts between the immunized mice with OMV (30 
CFU/lung) compared to the negative control group ((6 104 CFU/lung; p < 0.001). 
In mice immunized with OMVs (3 µg), the number of lungs recovered colonies after 
five days dropped at least five orders of magnitude compared to the control 
group.
CONCLUSION: OMVs obtained from circulating isolates with the predominant profile 
may constitute a highly promising vaccine quality. They also can be proposed as 
a potential basic material for the development of new pertussis vaccine 
candidate.

DOI: 10.52547/ibj.25.6.399
PMCID: PMC8744696
PMID: 34719226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Bone Joint J. 2021 Nov;103-B(11):1725-1730. doi: 
10.1302/0301-620X.103B11.BJJ-2020-2261.R1.

Development of a scoring system for survival following surgery for metastatic 
bone disease.

Baumber R(1), Gerrand C(2), Cooper M(1), Aston W(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthetics, Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital NHS Trust, 
London, UK.
(2)Division of Orthopaedic Oncology & Specialist Hip and Knee Unit, Royal 
National Orthopaedic Hospital NHS Trust, London, UK.

AIMS: The incidence of bone metastases is between 20% to 75% depending on the 
type of cancer. As treatment improves, the number of patients who need surgical 
intervention is increasing. Identifying patients with a shorter life expectancy 
would allow surgical intervention with more durable reconstructions to be 
targeted to those most likely to benefit. While previous scoring systems have 
focused on surgical and oncological factors, there is a need to consider 
comorbidities and the physiological state of the patient, as these will also 
affect outcome. The primary aim of this study was to create a scoring system to 
estimate survival time in patients with bony metastases and to determine which 
factors may adversely affect this.
METHODS: This was a retrospective study which included all patients who had 
presented for surgery with metastatic bone disease. The data collected included 
patient, surgical, and oncological variables. Univariable and multivariable 
analysis identified which factors were associated with a survival time of less 
than six months and less than one year. A model to predict survival based on 
these factors was developed using Cox regression.
RESULTS: A total of 164 patients were included with a median survival time of 
1.6 years (interquartile range 0.5 to 3.1) after surgery. On multivariable 
analysis, a higher American Society of Anesthesiologists grade (p < 0.001), a 
high white cell count (p = 0.002), hyponatraemia (p = 0.001), a preoperative 
resting heart rate of > 100 bpm (p = 0.052), and the type of primary cancer (p = 
0.026) remained significant predictors of reduced survival time. The predictive 
model developed showed good discrimination and calibration to predict both six- 
and 12-month survival in patients with metastatic bone disease.
CONCLUSION: In addition to surgical and oncological factors, the level of 
comorbidity and physiological state of the patient has a significant impact on 
survival in patients with metastatic bone disease. These factors should be 
considered when assessing the appropriateness of surgical intervention. This is 
the first study to examine other patient factors alongside surgical and 
oncological data to identify a relationship between these and survival. Cite 
this article: Bone Joint J 2021;103-B(11):1725-1730.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.103B11.BJJ-2020-2261.R1
PMID: 34719268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2021;18(7):573-584. doi:
10.2174/1567205018666211022164952.

Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarker Levels as Markers for Nursing Home Placement and 
Survival Time in Alzheimer's Disease.

Wattmo C(1), Blennow K(2), Hansson O(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund 
University, SE-205 02 Malmö, Sweden.
(2)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, Department of Psychiatry and 
Neurochemistry, The Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, SE-431 80 
Mölndal, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) biomarkers are associated with conversion 
from mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's Disease (AD), but their predictive 
value for later end-points has been less evaluated with inconsistent results.
OBJECTIVE: We investigated potential relationships between CSF amyloid-β1-42 
(Aβ42), Phosphorylated tau (P-tau), and Total tau (T-tau) with time to Nursing 
Home Placement (NHP) and life expectancy after diagnosis.
METHODS: This prospective observational study included 129 outpatients 
clinically diagnosed with mild-to-moderate AD who underwent a lumbar puncture. 
The CSF biomarkers were analysed with xMAP technology. Dates of 
institutionalisation and death were recorded.
RESULTS: After 20 years of follow-up, 123 patients (95%) were deceased. The 
participants with abnormal P-tau and T-tau (A+ T+ (N)+) died earlier than those 
with normal P-tau/abnormal T-tau (A+ T- (N)+) (mean, 80.5 vs. 85.4 years). 
Linear associations were demonstrated between lower Aβ42 and shorter time to NHP 
(p = 0.017), and higher P-tau and younger age at death (p = 0.016). No 
correlations were detected between survival after AD diagnosis and CSF 
biomarkers. In sexand- age-adjusted Cox regression models, higher P-tau and 
T-tau were independent predictors of shorter lifespan after diagnosis. In 
multivariate Cox models, older age and lower baseline cognitive status, but not 
elevated tau, significantly precipitated both institutionalisation and death.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that CSF biomarker levels plateau in the 
dementia phase of AD, which may limit their possible relationships with clinical 
end-points, such as NHP and survival time. However, the biomarkers reflect the 
central pathophysiologies of AD. In particular, pathologic tau is associated 
with more advanced disease, younger age at onset, and earlier death.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1567205018666211022164952
PMID: 34719365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Pharmacoeconomics. 2021 Dec;39(12):1355-1363. doi:
10.1007/s40273-021-01104-8.  Epub 2021 Nov 1.

Health-Economic Analyses of Diagnostics: Guidance on Design and Reporting.

van der Pol S(1), Rojas Garcia P(2), Antoñanzas Villar F(2), Postma MJ(3)(4), 
van Asselt ADI(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. s.van.der.pol@rug.nl.
(2)Department of Economics and Business, University of La Rioja, Logroño, Spain.
(3)Department of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Economics, Econometrics and Finance, University of Groningen, 
Groningen, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Epidemiology, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

Cost-effectiveness analyses (CEAs) can be used to assess the value of 
diagnostics in clinical practice. Due to the introduction of the European in 
vitro diagnostic and medical devices regulations, more clinical data on new 
diagnostics may become available, which may improve the interest and feasibility 
of performing CEAs. We present eight recommendations on the reporting and design 
of CEAs of diagnostics. The symptoms patients experience, the clinical setting, 
locations of test sampling and analysis, and diagnostic algorithms should be 
clearly reported. The used time horizon should reflect the time horizon used to 
model the treatment after the diagnostic pathway. Quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) or disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) should be used as the clinical 
outcomes but may be combined with other relevant outcomes, such as real options 
value. If the number of tests using the same equipment can vary, the economy of 
scale should be considered. An understandable graphical representation of the 
various diagnostic algorithms should be provided to understand the results, such 
as an efficiency frontier. Finally, the budget impact and affordability should 
be considered. These recommendations can be used in addition to other, more 
general, recommendations, such as the Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation 
Reporting Standards (CHEERS) or the reference case for economic evaluation by 
the international decision support initiative.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-021-01104-8
PMCID: PMC8599388
PMID: 34719752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Professor Maarten J. Postma received grants and 
honoraria from various pharmaceutical companies all unrelated to this research, 
except those underlying the IMI EU VALUE-Dx project underlying this work. Simon 
van der Pol, Paula Rojas Garcia, Fernando Antoñanzas Villar, and Antoinette D.I. 
van Asselt have no conflicts of interest to declare.


498. Environ Dev Sustain. 2021;23(11):16588-16616. doi:
10.1007/s10668-021-01342-y.  Epub 2021 Apr 3.

Socio-cognitive constraints and opportunities for sustainable intensification in 
South Asia: insights from fuzzy cognitive mapping in coastal Bangladesh.

Aravindakshan S(1)(2), Krupnik TJ(2), Shahrin S(1)(2), Tittonell P(3)(4), 
Siddique KHM(5), Ditzler L(1), Groot JCJ(1)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Farming Systems Ecology Group, Wageningen University & Research, P.O. Box 
430, 6700 AK Wageningen, The Netherlands.
(2)International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), House 10/B, Road 
53, Gulshan-2, Dhaka, 1213 Bangladesh.
(3)Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria (INTA), 1439-1033, 1033 
Rivadavia, Buenos Aires Argentina.
(4)Groningen Institute of Evolutionary Life Sciences, Groningen University, 
Groningen, The Netherlands.
(5)The UWA Institute of Agriculture, The University of Western Australia, Perth, 
WA 6001 Australia.
(6)Bioversity International, Viale dei Tre Denari, 472/a, 00054 Maccarese 
(Fiumicino), Italy.
(7)International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), Carretera 
México-Veracruz, Km. 45, El Batán, 56237 Texcoco, México.

Appreciating and dealing with the plurality of farmers' perceptions and their 
contextual knowledge and perspectives of the functioning and performance of 
their agroecosystems-in other words, their 'mental models'-is central for 
appropriate and sustainable agricultural development. In this respect, the 
sustainable development goals (SDGs) aim to eradicate poverty and food 
insecurity by 2030 by envisioning social inclusivity that incorporates the 
preferences and knowledge of key stakeholders, including farmers. Agricultural 
development interventions and policies directed at sustainable intensification 
(SI), however, do not sufficiently account for farmers' perceptions, beliefs, 
priorities, or interests. Considering two contrasting agroecological systems in 
coastal Bangladesh, we used a fuzzy cognitive mapping (FCM)-based simulation and 
sensitivity analysis of mental models of respondents of different farm types 
from 240 farm households. The employed FCM mental models were able to (1) 
capture farmers' perception of farming system concepts and relationships for 
each farm type and (2) assess the impact of external interventions (drivers) on 
cropping intensification and food security. We decomposed the FCM models' 
variance into the first-order sensitivity index (SVI) and total sensitivity 
index (TSI) using a winding stairs algorithm. Both within and outside polder 
areas, the highest TSIs (35-68%) were observed for effects of agricultural 
extension on changes in other concepts in the map, particularly food security 
and income (SI indicators), indicating the importance of extension programs for 
SI. Outside polders, drainage and micro-credit were also influential; within 
polders, the availability of micro-credit appears to affect farmer perceptions 
of SI indicators more than drainage. This study demonstrated the importance of 
reflection on the differing perspectives of farmers both within and outside 
polders to identify entry points for development interventions. In addition, the 
study underscores the need for micro-farming systems-level research to assess 
the context-based feasibility of introduced interventions as perceived by 
farmers of different farm types.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material 
available at 10.1007/s10668-021-01342-y.

© The Author(s) 2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s10668-021-01342-y
PMCID: PMC8550745
PMID: 34720690


499. Struct Multidiscipl Optim. 2021;64(3):1079-1110. doi: 
10.1007/s00158-021-02899-y. Epub 2021 Jul 30.

Design of adaptive structures through energy minimization: extension to 
tensegrity.

Wang Y(#)(1), Senatore G(#)(1).

Author information:
(1)Applied Computing and Mechanics Laboratory (IMAC), School of Architecture, 
Civil and Environmental Engineering (ENAC), Swiss Federal Institute of 
Technology (EPFL), CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.
(#)Contributed equally

This paper gives a new formulation to design adaptive structures through total 
energy optimization (TEO). This methodology enables the design of truss as well 
as tensegrity configurations that are equipped with linear actuators to 
counteract the effect of loading through active control. The design criterion is 
whole-life energy minimization which comprises an embodied part in the material 
and an operational part for structural adaptation during service. The embodied 
energy is minimized through simultaneous optimization of element sizing and 
actuator placement, which is formulated as a mixed-integer nonlinear programming 
problem. Optimization variables include element cross-sectional areas, actuator 
positions, element forces, and node displacements. For tensegrity 
configurations, the actuators are not only employed to counteract the effect of 
loading but also to apply appropriate prestress which is included in the 
optimization variables. Actuator commands during service are obtained through 
minimization of the operational energy that is required to control the state of 
the structure within required limits, which is formulated as a nonlinear 
programming problem. Embodied and operational energy minimization problems are 
nested within a univariate optimization process that minimizes the structure's 
whole-life energy (embodied + operational). TEO has been applied to design a 
roof and a high-rise adaptive tensegrity structure. The adaptive tensegrity 
solutions are benchmarked with equivalent passive tensegrity as well as adaptive 
truss solutions, which are also designed through TEO. Results have shown that 
since cables can be kept in tension through active control, adaptive tensegrity 
structures require low prestress, which in turn reduces mass, embodied energy, 
and construction costs compared to passive tensegrity structures. However, while 
adaptive truss solutions achieve significant mass and energy savings compared to 
passive solutions, adaptive tensegrity solutions are not efficient 
configurations in whole-life energy cost terms. Since cable elements must be 
kept in tension, significant operational energy is required to maintain stable 
equilibrium for adaptation to loading. Generally, adaptive tensegrity solutions 
are not as efficient as their equivalent adaptive truss configurations in mass 
and energy cost terms.

© The Author(s) 2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s00158-021-02899-y
PMCID: PMC8550763
PMID: 34720790

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


500. Front Hum Neurosci. 2021 Oct 15;15:736761. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2021.736761. 
eCollection 2021.

The Fourier-Laplace Transform-A Conjugate Link Between the Material Brain and 
the Conscious Mind.

Brändas EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.

Recent attempts to establish the quantum boundaries of life is pursued. A 
pre-existing view of quantum biology is supplemented by the formulation of 
modern advances in theoretical chemical physics and quantum chemistry. The 
extension to open system dynamics entails a self-referential amplification 
supporting the signature of life as well as consciousness via long-range 
correlative information, ODLCI. The associated negentropic coherence permeates 
hierarchical and functional organization at multiple levels. In this 
communication we will derive and review one of the most important mathematical 
tools, i.e., the combined use of the Fourier- and the Laplace transform. It is 
shown that an underlying operator algebra facilitates the formulation of the 
conjugate relationship between energy-time and momentum-space. Implications from 
augmented general dilation analytic operator families provide novel 
information-based representations and yield, inter alia, a thermo-qubit syntax 
for communication, which are required to support the quantum Darwinian view of 
life.

Copyright © 2021 Brändas.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2021.736761
PMCID: PMC8553989
PMID: 34720909

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


501. Case Rep Ophthalmol. 2021 Sep 27;12(3):816-823. doi: 10.1159/000518443. 
eCollection 2021 Sep-Dec.

Increased Choroidal Thickness in Morquio Syndrome.

Magalhães A(1), Vilares-Morgado R(1)(2), Cunha AM(1), Leão-Teles E(3), Falcão 
M(1)(2), Carneiro Â(1)(2), Falcão-Reis F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Centro Hospitalar Universitário de São João, 
Porto, Portugal.
(2)Department of Surgery and Physiology, Faculty of Medicine of University of 
Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Reference Centre of Inherited Metabolic Diseases, 
Centro Hospitalar Universitário de São João, Porto, Portugal.

The purpose of this clinical case report is to describe a case of 
mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA (MPS IVA), or Morquio syndrome, with increased 
choroidal thickness in enhanced-depth imaging optical coherence tomography 
(EDI-OCT) which can represent choroidal deposition of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). 
A 21-year-old male with genetically confirmed diagnosis of MPS IVA was examined 
at our Pediatric Ophthalmology clinic as part of our follow-up protocol for MPS 
patients. His best-corrected visual acuity was 4/10 in his right eye (OD) and 
6/10 in the left eye (OS). Mild diffuse corneal opacification was evident. 
Intraocular pressure was within normal range. Fundus examination and color 
fundus photography revealed no abnormalities. EDI-OCT revealed significantly 
increased choroidal thickness in his right eye and in his left eye, suggesting 
the presence of choroidal deposition of GAGs, despite absence of retinal or 
optic disc GAG deposition or other chorioretinal involvement. To our knowledge, 
this is the first case of MPS IVA described in the literature with suspected 
choroidal deposition of GAGs. With improved control of systemic features of MPS 
IVA, life expectancy of these patients has increased, allowing for more ocular 
manifestations to develop. The parallel development of technology in 
ophthalmology, such as the EDI-OCT, further contributes to the detection of 
these unprecedented ocular features in MPSs.

Copyright © 2021 by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000518443
PMCID: PMC8543289
PMID: 34720983

Conflict of interest statement: One author of this publication (Elisa 
Leão-Teles) is a member of the European Reference Network for Rare Hereditary 
Metabolic Disorders (MetabERN) − Project ID No. 739543.


502. Cureus. 2021 Sep 25;13(9):e18272. doi: 10.7759/cureus.18272. eCollection
2021  Sep.

Self-Expandable Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Outcomes: Findings From 
the Western Region of Saudi Arabia.

Albugami S(1)(2), Al-Husayni F(3)(4), Alfouti M(4), Algahtani M(5), Alansari 
W(6), Hanawi M(6), Albokhari A(7), Alkashkari W(1)(2), Mufti HN(8)(9)(10), 
Krimly A(2), Alameen W(2), Albawardy R(2), Alsaiedi A(2).

Author information:
(1)Cardiology, King Abdullah International Medical Research Center, King Saud 
Bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences, Jeddah, SAU.
(2)Cardiology, King Faisal Cardiac Center, King Abdulaziz Medical City, Ministry 
of National Guard Health Affairs, Jeddah, SAU.
(3)Internal Medicine, King Abdullah International Medical Research Center, 
Jeddah, SAU.
(4)Internal Medicine, National Guard Hospital, King Abdulaziz Medical City, 
Jeddah, SAU.
(5)Interventional Cardiology, National Guard Hospital, Riyadh, SAU.
(6)College of Medicine, King Saud Bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences, 
Jeddah, SAU.
(7)Internal Medicine, Hera General Hospital, Makkah, SAU.
(8)Medicine, King Abdullah International Medical Research Center, Jeddah, SAU.
(9)Cardiac Surgery, King Faisal Cardiac Center, King Abdullah Medical City, 
Jeddah, SAU.
(10)Medicine, King Saud Bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences, Jeddah, 
SAU.

Background and objective The prevalence of aortic stenosis in Saudi Arabia is 
expected to increase owing to the rise in the life expectancy of the population. 
Such increase is expected to be met with higher demand for interventions 
including transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). In this study, we 
aimed to identify the outcomes of this procedure among the population of the 
Western region of Saudi Arabia. Methods This was a retrospective observational 
study involving patients who underwent TAVI at the King Faisal Cardiac Center 
(KFCC), Jeddah, Saudi Arabia from June 2018 to January 2020. All patients who 
had undergone TAVI were included, and patients who were lost to follow-up for 
more than 90 days were excluded. The collected data included sociodemographic 
characteristics, peri-procedural assessment, and outcomes within 90 days. 
Results The study included a total of 52 patients. There were 28 males (53.8%) 
and 24 females (46.2%). The mean age of the cohort was 78 years. Type two 
diabetes mellitus was present in 67.3%, and hypertension and dyslipidemia were 
seen in 80.8% of patients. Coronary diseases were seen in 55.8%. The majority 
had prior percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) (53.8%) and 3.8% had coronary 
artery bypass grafting (CABG). Twenty patients (38.5%) had heart failure. Atrial 
fibrillation was encountered in 13 patients (25%). Chronic kidney disease was 
described in nine (17.3%) patients, and four (7.7%) were on regular 
hemodialysis. The median Society of Thoracic Surgery (STS) risk score was 2.4 
(IQR: 1.97-5). High STS scores (>8) were only seen in 9% of the patients. The 
success rate was 98%, and the in-hospital mortality rate was 3.8%. Vascular 
complications were seen in eight patients (15.4%), and the majority of them were 
minor. One patient (1.9%) had a major vascular complication. There was a 
tendency toward high blood transfusions (19.2%). Clinically manifest stroke was 
seen in three patients (5.8%). Eight patients (15.4%) had post-procedure 
complete heart block (CHB). Endocarditis was seen in two patients (3.8%). 
Thirty-day cardiac readmission was observed in 17.3% of patients, and acute 
kidney injury was seen in eight patients (15.4%). Mild aortic regurgitation was 
seen in 51.9% of the patients, but moderate or severe aortic insufficiency (AI) 
was not encountered. Conclusion Transfemoral TAVI using a self-expandable valve 
is a safe and feasible procedure at KFCC, an intermediate-sized center. Our data 
is comparable to local and international centers of similar size. Program 
sustainability depends on the development of robust referral networks and 
implementing regulatory quality and patient safety standards.

Copyright © 2021, Albugami et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.18272
PMCID: PMC8544290
PMID: 34722050

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


503. Cureus. 2021 Sep 25;13(9):e18284. doi: 10.7759/cureus.18284. eCollection
2021  Sep.

Current Practice of Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in Patients With 
Coagulation Disorders.

El Khoury M(1), Karam B(2), Tabet R(2), Lafferty JC(2), Snyder ST(2).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, Staten Island University Hospital - Northwell Health, New 
York City, USA.
(2)Cardiovascular Medicine, Staten Island University Hospital - Northwell 
Health, Staten Island, USA.

Acute coronary artery disease represents the leading cause of death worldwide. 
Some studies have shown that coagulation disorders can play a protective 
role against ischemic heart disease, presumably due to hypocoagulable state and 
decrease thrombin formation. However, autopsy reports showed atherosclerotic 
lesions in some patients with hemophilia. Since the introduction of clotting 
factors and replacement therapies, the life expectancy of patients with 
coagulation disorders has increased significantly. As a result, the incidence of 
cardiovascular diseases became higher making their treatment more 
challenging. Door to balloon strategy applies in ST-elevation myocardial 
infarction (STEMI), and percutaneous coronary intervention should not be 
delayed. While in non-STEMI (NSTEMI) and unstable angina, a hematology consult 
is essential. Prophylactic coagulation factor replacement is crucial in these 
patients in order to avoid bleeding complications, but on the other hand, these 
factors were also associated with thrombotic complications. Historically, 
bare-metal stents were preferred over drug-eluting stents in view of the shorter 
duration of dual antiplatelets therapy (DAPT). Currently, some trials have 
demonstrated the safety of new-generation drug-eluting stents in patients with 
elevated bleeding risk, where DAPT use is limited to four weeks. The radial 
artery is the preferred access and was found to have less bleeding 
complications when compared to the femoral access. Anticoagulation with heparin 
is the safest in view of antidote availability and shorter half-life. 
Bivalirudin has also been used in some case reports, while GP2b3a inhibitors are 
usually avoided except in a high thrombus burden. Close peri procedural 
follow-up is important with patient education about symptoms of bleed. Carefully 
and individually tailored antithrombotic and factor replacement therapy is 
required to overcome these clinically challenging situations. Early screening 
for cardiovascular risk factors and considering early intervention and 
management might help to improve the general health status of this population 
and reduce morbidity.

Copyright © 2021, El Khoury et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.18284
PMCID: PMC8545607
PMID: 34722061

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


504. Curr Epidemiol Rep. 2021 Sep;8(3):116-129. doi: 10.1007/s40471-021-00264-7.
Epub  2021 Apr 23.

Methodological Challenges for Epidemiologic Studies of Deprescribing at the End 
of Life.

Tjia J(1), Lund JL(2), Mack DS(1), Mbrah A(1), Yuan Y(1), Chen Q(1), Osundolire 
S(1), McDermott CL(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population and Quantitative Health Sciences, University of 
Massachusetts Medical School, 368 Plantation Street, AS6-2065, Worcester, MA 
01605, USA.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, UNC Gillings School of Global Public Health, UNC 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(3)Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To describe approaches to measuring deprescribing and 
associated outcomes in studies of patients approaching end of life (EOL).
RECENT FINDINGS: We reviewed studies published through 2020 that evaluated 
deprescribing in patients with limited life expectancy and approaching EOL. 
Deprescribing includes reducing the number of medications, decreasing medication 
dose(s), and eliminating potentially inappropriate medications. Tools such as 
STOPPFrail, OncPal, and the Unnecessary Drug Use Measure can facilitate 
deprescribing. Outcome measures vary and selection of measures should align with 
the operationalized deprescribing definition used by study investigators.
SUMMARY: EOL deprescribing considerations include medication appropriateness in 
the context of patient goals for care, expected benefit from medication given 
life expectancy, and heightened potential for medication-related harm as death 
nears. Additional data are needed on how EOL deprescribing impacts patient 
quality of life, caregiver burden, and out-of-pocket medication-related costs to 
patients and caregivers. Investigators should design deprescribing studies with 
this information in mind.

DOI: 10.1007/s40471-021-00264-7
PMCID: PMC8553236
PMID: 34722115

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Dr. Tjia reports grants 
from National Institute of Aging during the conduct of the study. Dr. Mack 
reports grants from the National Institutes of Health and the National Center 
for Advancing Translational Sciences during the conduct of the study. Dr. Lund 
reports other financial activities from GlaxoSmithKline outside the submitted 
work. Dr. McDermott reports grants from the National Heart Lung and Blood 
Institute outside the submitted work. Dr. Yuan reports grants from the National 
Institute on Aging outside the submitted work. Ms. Chen, Dr. Mbrah, and Mr. 
Osundolire report no conflict of interest.


505. Ann Glob Health. 2021 Oct 21;87(1):103. doi: 10.5334/aogh.3343. eCollection 
2021.

Long-Term Neurological Sequelae and Disease Burden of Japanese Encephalitis in 
Gansu Province, China.

Wang X(1)(2), Su L(3), Sun S(4), Hu W(5), Mu Q(6), Liang X(7), Jin N(7), Dai 
T(3), Li H(8), Zhuang G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Xi'an 
Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an 710061, P.R. China.
(2)Institute of Health Education, Gansu Provincial Center for Disease Control 
and Prevention, Lanzhou, 730000, China.
(3)School of Public Health, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, P.R. China.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Lanzhou University Second Hospital, Lanzhou 730000, 
P.R. China.
(5)School of Public Health and Social Work, Queensland University of Technology, 
Kelvin Grove 4059, QLD, Australia.
(6)Gansu health vocational college, Lanzhou 730000, P.R. China.
(7)Institute of Immunization Programme, Gansu Provincial Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Lanzhou, 730000, China.
(8)Institute of prevention and control of infectious diseases, Gansu Provincial 
Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Lanzhou, 730000, China.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTS: The study aimed to evaluate the long-term neurological 
sequelae and the disease burden of JE in Gansu, China.
METHODS: JE patients were included as study population from 2005-2011 in Gansu, 
and a follow-up survey was conducted in 2007-2014. Pair-matched healthy 
individuals were selected as controls. All subjects underwent a neurological 
examination and intelligence quotient (IQ) and memory quotient (MQ) assessments. 
Then, the disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), and direct and indirect 
medical expenses were systematic assessed.
RESULTS: Forty-four point seven percent of the JE patients had objective 
neurological deficits, compared with 2.4% of controls. Subnormal intelligence 
was found in 21.2% of JE subjects, compared with 1.2% control who exhibited a 
mildly reduced IQ. Abnormal MQ scores were noted in 56.3% JE subjects, compared 
with only 12.7% controls. Prevalence of each sequelae caused by JE were 
significantly higher in adults than in younger subjects. Furthermore, median 
DALY lost due to JE was 9.2 per subject. Median economic cost of JE was 
approximately $2776.6 per subject and significantly higher in adults than in 
younger subjects.
FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS: JE patients suffered from severe neurological sequelae 
and high disease burden, resulting in a significant downstream burden for both 
the patients (especially adults) and the healthcare system.

Copyright: © 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.5334/aogh.3343
PMCID: PMC8533657
PMID: 34722167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests to 
declare.


506. Front Vet Sci. 2021 Oct 13;8:731894. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2021.731894.
eCollection  2021.

Dairy Producers Who Market Their Surplus Progeny as Calves Use Germplasm With 
Slightly Lighter and Less-Conformed Carcasses Than Producers Who Rear Their 
Surplus Progeny Beyond Weaning.

Berry DP(1), Ring SR(2).

Author information:
(1)Teagasc, Animal and Grassland Research and Innovation Centre, Fermoy, 
Ireland.
(2)Irish Cattle Breeding Federation, Bandon, Ireland.

Understanding dairy producer mindset in service sire selection can provide 
useful information for different junctures along the commercial and extension 
animal breeding chain. It can aid the targeted marketing of bulls based on farm 
production systems but also provide useful information for delivering bespoke 
extension services. The objective of the present study was to examine if 
differences exist among dairy producers in their choice of dairy and beef 
service sires depending on the life stage at which the surplus progeny generated 
from such matings exit the dairy farm. This was predominantly based on 
evaluating the breed of beef sires used but also their genetic merit for calving 
difficulty and carcass traits, namely, carcass weight, conformation, and fat 
score; differences in genetic merit among dairy sires as well as among the dairy 
cows themselves were also considered. The objective was accomplished through the 
cross-sectional analyses of progeny fate data from 1,092,403 progeny born in 
4,117 Irish dairy herds. Herd-years were categorized into one of four systems 
based on when the surplus progeny exited the dairy farm: (1) calves sold <70 
days of age, (2) cattle sold as yearlings between 250 and 450 days of age, (3) 
prime cattle sold for finishing (slaughtered between 8 and 120 days of exiting 
the dairy farm), or (4) prime cattle sold for immediate slaughter (i.e., 
slaughtered within 7 days of exiting the dairy farm). The mean genetic merit of 
both the cows and service sires used across the four different systems was 
estimated using linear mixed models. Of the beef service sires used in herds 
that sold their surplus progeny as calves, their mean predicted transmitting 
ability for carcass weight and carcass conformation score was just 2.00 kg and 
0.11 scores [scale of 1 (poor) to 15 (excellent)] inferior to the beef service 
sires used in herds that sold their surplus progeny as prime cattle for 
immediate slaughter. Similar trends, albeit of smaller magnitude, were evident 
when comparing the genetic merit of the dairy service sires used in those 
systems. Cows in herds that sold their surplus progeny as calves were 
genetically less likely to incur dystocia as well as to have lighter, 
less-conformed, and leaner carcasses than cows in herds that sold their surplus 
progeny post-weaning. Hence, results from the present study suggest that 
diversity in herd strategy regarding when surplus progeny exit the herd 
influences service sire selection choices in respect of genetic merit for 
dystocia and carcass attributes. That said, the biological difference based on 
the current pool of available service sires is small relative to the dairy 
producers that sell their surplus progeny as young calves; when expressed on a 
per standard deviation in genetic merit of the beef service sires used across 
all herds, the difference between extreme systems was, nonetheless, 
approximately half a standard deviation for carcass weight and conformation.

Copyright © 2021 Berry and Ring.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2021.731894
PMCID: PMC8548677
PMID: 34722698

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


507. Front Vet Sci. 2021 Oct 14;8:752375. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2021.752375.
eCollection  2021.

Kinematic Analysis During Straight Line Free Swimming in Horses: Part 1 - 
Forelimbs.

Santosuosso E(1), Leguillette R(1), Vinardell T(2)(3), Filho S(4), Massie S(1), 
McCrae P(1), Johnson S(2), Rolian C(1), David F(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(2)Equine Veterinary Medical Center, Member of Qatar Foundation, Doha, Qatar.
(3)College of Health & Life Sciences, Hamad Bin Khalifa University, Member of 
Qatar Foundation, Doha, Qatar.
(4)Al Shaqab - Endurance Department, Member of Qatar Foundation, Doha, Qatar.

Background: Swimming is used for rehabilitation and conditioning purposes in 
equine sports medicine despite the lack of understanding of equine swimming 
kinematics. The aim of this study was to assess forelimb joints kinematics 
(elbow, carpus, and fetlock) in swimming horses. The specific objectives were 1- 
to calculate and compare joint angles in swimming vs. passive mobilizations 
(PM), 2- to determine joint angular velocities during a swimming stride cycle. 
Methods: Eleven elite endurance horses swam in a 100-m straight pool. Underwater 
(swimming) and overground (PM) videos were recorded from the horses' left side. 
Joint markers were applied on the lateral hoof wall, lateral metacarpal 
epicondyle, ulnar carpal bone, lateral humeral epicondyle, and the greater 
tubercle of humerus, from which elbow, carpus and fetlock angles, and angular 
velocities were obtained. As a reference, maximal fetlock, carpus, and elbow 
flexion/extension angles were determined during PM overground. Differences 
between angle extrema, angular velocities and range of motion (ROM) were 
compared. Results: Carpus and fetlock ROM were significantly smaller (p < 0.001) 
during swimming when compared with PM, while there was no difference in elbow 
ROM between both situations. The carpus had the greatest ROM of all joints 
during swimming. Absolute angular velocities values of all joints during 
swimming were greater during retraction than protraction (p < 0.001). When 
compared to other joints during protraction, the carpus joint reached the 
highest angular velocity. Conclusion: Swimming, as a rehabilitation exercise, 
has the potential to benefit horses where great elbow ROM with a moderate carpus 
and fetlock extension are wanted.

Copyright © 2021 Santosuosso, Leguillette, Vinardell, Filho, Massie, McCrae, 
Johnson, Rolian and David.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2021.752375
PMCID: PMC8553013
PMID: 34722709

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


508. J Crit Care Med (Targu Mures). 2021 May 12;7(2):83-96. doi: 
10.2478/jccm-2021-0007. eCollection 2021 Apr.

Perioperative Management of Pulmonary Hypertension. a Review.

Wood C(1), Balciunas M(1), Lordan J(2), Mellor A(1).

Author information:
(1)James Cook University Hospital, Middlesbrough, UK.
(2)Newcastle Upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Tyne, England.

Pulmonary hypertension is a rare and progressive pathology defined by abnormally 
high pulmonary artery pressure mediated by a diverse range of aetiologies. It 
affects up to twenty-six individuals per one million patients currently living 
in the United Kingdom (UK), with a median life expectancy of 2.8 years in 
idiopathic pulmonary hypertension. The diagnosis of pulmonary hypertension is 
often delayed due to the presentation of non-specific symptoms, leading to a 
delay in referral to specialists services. The complexity of treatment 
necessitates a multidisciplinary approach, underpinned by a diverse disease 
aetiology from managing the underlying disease process to novel specialist 
treatments. This has led to the formation of dedicated specialist treatment 
centres within centralised UK cities. The article aimed to provide a concise 
overview of pulmonary hypertension's clinical perioperative management, 
including key definitions, epidemiology, pathophysiology, and risk 
stratification.

© 2021 Christopher Wood, Mindaugas Balciunas, Jim Lordan, Adrian Mellor, 
published by Sciendo.

DOI: 10.2478/jccm-2021-0007
PMCID: PMC8519362
PMID: 34722909

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest None to declare.


509. Cell Rep Methods. 2021 Oct 25;1(6):None. doi: 10.1016/j.crmeth.2021.100083.

Timing RNA polymerase pausing with TV-PRO-seq.

Zhang J(1), Cavallaro M(1)(2), Hebenstreit D(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Gibbet Hill Campus, the University of Warwick, CV4 
7AL Coventry, UK.
(2)Mathematics Institute and Zeeman Institute for Systems Biology and Infectious 
Disease Epidemiology Research, the University of Warwick, CV4 7AL Coventry, UK.

Transcription of many genes in metazoans is subject to polymerase pausing, which 
is the transient stop of transcriptionally engaged polymerases. This is known to 
mainly occur in promoter-proximal regions but it is not well understood. In 
