
Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


175. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 2021 Oct 8;95:e202110167.

[Transcultural translation and adaptation into spanish of the questionnaire 
"Healthcare task difficulty (hctd) among older-adults with multimorbidity".].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Fernández-Rubio B(1), Mejías-Trueba M(1), Rodríguez-Pérez A(1), Fernández-Rubio 
G(2), Nieto-Martín MD(3), López-Hermoso C(1).

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Gestión Clínica Farmacia. Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocío. 
Sevilla. España.
(2)Departamento de Neuropsicología y Psicofarmacología. Facultad de Psicología y 
Neurociencia. Universidad de Maastricht. Maastricht. Países Bajos.
(3)Unidad de Gestión Clínica Medicina Interna. Hospital Universitario Virgen del 
Rocío. Sevilla. España.

OBJECTIVE: The increase in chronic diseases as a consequence of the rising life 
expectancy calls for tools that allow us to analyze the difficulty that patients 
with multimorbidity present when performing healthcare-related tasks. To this 
end, we carried out a cross-cultural translation and adaptation into Spanish of 
the questionnaire "Healthcare Task Difficulty (HCTD) among Older Adults with 
Multimorbidity."
METHODS: Direct translation and back translation were made, followed by a 
synthesis and adaptation by a third translator and a panel of experts in order 
to guarantee the conceptual, semantic, and content equivalence between the 
original questionnaire and the Spanish version. Additionally, an evaluation of 
the comprehension of the questionnaire in Spanish was carried out in a sample of 
elderly patients with multimorbidity.
RESULTS: The Spanish version of the HCTD questionnaire (HCTD-E) was obtained. 
The overall difficulty of the translators to find an equivalent expression 
between both languages was low. In the synthesis and adaptation part, four 
discrepancies were resolved (two of them were adapted in order to use a 
terminology closer to our health system and the other two were completed with 
different examples). The comprehensibility analysis was conducted in a sample of 
ten elderly patients with multimorbidity, and they showed an excellent 
comprehensibility.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first cross-cultural adaptation to Spanish of the HCTD 
questionnaire. The methodology used through direct translation, back-translation 
and adaptation by a third translator and a panel of experts demonstrated a high 
level of comprehensibility of the HCTD-E, which was measured with cognitive 
interviews in a sample of patients.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: El incremento de las enfermedades crónicas como 
consecuencia del aumento en la esperanza de vida, hace necesario disponer de 
herramientas que permitan analizar la dificultad que presentan los pacientes con 
multimorbilidad, a la hora de realizar tareas relacionadas con la asistencia 
sanitaria. Con este fin, se llevó a cabo una traducción y adaptación 
transcultural al español del cuestionario "Healthcare Task Difficulty (HCTD) 
among Older Adults with Multimorbidity".
METODOS: Traducción directa y retrotraducción llevadas a cabo por dos 
traductores, seguidas de una síntesis y adaptación por parte de un tercer 
traductor. Posterior creación de un panel de expertos con el fin de garantizar 
la equivalencia conceptual, semántica y de contenido entre la versión original y 
la española. A continuación, se realizó una evaluación de la comprensión del 
cuestionario en español en una muestra de pacientes de edad avanzada con 
múltiples patologías.
RESULTADOS: Se obtuvo la versión española del cuestionario HCTD (HCTD-E). La 
dificultad global encontrada por los traductores para hallar una expresión 
equivalente entre ambos idiomas fue baja. En la fase de síntesis y adaptación, 
se resolvieron 4 discrepancias con el fin de utilizar una terminología más 
cercana a nuestro sistema sanitario. El análisis de comprensibilidad se efectuó 
sobre una muestra de 10 pacientes, mayores y con multimorbilidad en seguimiento 
por Medicina Interna, el cual demostró una comprensibilidad excelente.
CONCLUSIONES: Se trata de la primera adaptación transcultural al español del 
cuestionario HCTD. La metodología utilizada mediante traducción directa, 
retrotraducción y adaptación por parte de un tercer traductor y un panel de 
expertos, ha demostrado un alto nivel de comprensibilidad de la herramienta 
HCTD-E medida a través de entrevistas cognitivas realizadas en una muestra de 
pacientes.

PMID: 34620821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 2021 Oct 8;95:e202110165.

[Present and future of the approach to frailty within the health promotion and 
prevention strategy's framework in the National Health System.].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Pola Ferrández E(1)(2), Justo Gil S(1), Zuza Santacilia I(1), Gil Tarragato 
S(1), Campos Esteban P(1).

Author information:
(1)Subdirección General de Promoción, Prevención y Calidad. Dirección General de 
Salud Pública. Ministerio de Sanidad. Madrid. España.
(2)Asistencia técnica TRAGSATEC en el Ministerio de Sanidad. Madrid. España.

Our country has achieved one of the highest life expectancies in the world, but 
this increase has not been matched by a similar growth in healthy life years. 
Maintaining people's functional capacity as they grow older is essential to 
provide quality of life for the years they have gained, acting on factors that 
are modifiable and therefore subject to intervention, such as frailty. This is 
why it was one of the prioritised interventions in the Prevention and Health 
Promotion Strategy of the Spanish NHS, which began in 2013. In the collective 
effort to meet the challenge of addressing frailty, the Autonomous Communities 
and Cities (AACC) have played a key role in implementing actions on the 
prevention of frailty and falls in the elderly. The 2019 evaluation of the 3 
Consensus document on frailty and falls prevention among the elderly showed very 
positive data, with high or very high implementation in the AACC. The COVID-19 
pandemic has also conditioned the approach to frailty. Frailty has been shown to 
be a risk factor for the development of illness and death, while COVID-19 has 
been shown to be a frailty generator. To facilitate the care of the elderly and 
the approach to frailty, the Ministry of Health, within the EPSP Frailty and 
Falls Working Group, developed the document of Recommendations for the approach 
to frailty in the health crisis situation generated by the COVID-19. The future 
of the approach to frailty in the EPSP is set out in the Roadmap for Addressing 
Frailty, developed in the framework of the EPSP and the ADVANTAGE Joint Action, 
which aims to contribute to making frailty a public health priority and to 
promote its approach at population and individual level, including prevention, 
early population detection and surveillance/monitoring, from an integrated and 
coordinated model of care, without forgetting the strengthening of training and 
research. In the current situation of tension in the socio-health system, which 
has manifested itself since the COVID-19 crisis, it is necessary to articulate 
how to continue to provide quality care, not only for the acute situation, but 
also for other situations such as frailty, care for chronic diseases, geriatric 
syndromes and physical, mental and social needs. A disability-free life 
expectancy must be based on the promotion of active and healthy ageing to ensure 
that older people maintain maximum functional capacity. To this end, it is 
essential to assess and prevent or reverse frailty, avoiding progression to 
disability and further overburdening of the system, individuals, families and 
society as a whole.

Publisher: Nuestro país ha alcanzado una de las esperanzas de vida más altas del 
mundo, pero este incremento no se ha acompañado de un crecimiento similar en 
años de vida en buena salud. Para dotar de calidad de vida los años ganados, es 
fundamental mantener la capacidad funcional de las personas a medida que 
envejecen, actuando en factores que son modificables y, por tanto, sujetos a 
intervención, como la fragilidad. Por ello, ésta fue una de las intervenciones 
priorizadas en la Estrategia de Promoción de la Salud y Prevención en el SNS 
(EPSP), que comenzó en el año 2013. En el esfuerzo colectivo por afrontar el 
reto del abordaje de la fragilidad, las comunidades y ciudades autónomas (CCAA) 
han tenido un papel fundamental en la implementación de acciones sobre la 
prevención de la fragilidad y caídas en la persona mayor. La evaluación de 2019 
del Documento de consenso sobre prevención de fragilidad y caídas en la persona 
mayor, arrojó datos muy positivos, con una implementación alta o muy alta en las 
CCAA. La pandemia de COVID-19, ha condicionado también el abordaje de la 
fragilidad. Ésta se ha mostrado como un factor de riesgo para el desarrollo de 
enfermedad y fallecimiento, a la vez que la COVID-19 se ha manifestado como una 
enfermedad fragilizante. Para facilitar la atención de las personas mayores y el 
abordaje de la fragilidad desde el Ministerio de Sanidad, en el seno del Grupo 
de Trabajo de Fragilidad 2 y Caídas de la EPSP, se desarrolló el documento de 
Recomendaciones para el abordaje de la fragilidad en situación de crisis 
sanitaria generada por la COVID-19. El futuro del abordaje de la fragilidad en 
la EPSP está recogido en la Hoja de Ruta para el abordaje de la Fragilidad, 
elaborada en el marco de la EPSP y de la Acción Conjunta ADVANTAGE, mediante la 
que se propone contribuir a convertir la fragilidad en una prioridad de salud 
pública y a promocionar su abordaje a nivel poblacional e individual, incluyendo 
su prevención, detección precoz poblacional y vigilancia/monitorización, desde 
un modelo integrado y coordinado de cuidado, sin olvidar el fortalecimiento de 
la formación e investigación. En la situación actual de tensión del sistema 
socio-sanitario, que se ha manifestado a partir de la crisis por la COVID-19, es 
necesario articular cómo continuar prestando una atención de calidad, no solo a 
la situación aguda, sino también a otras situaciones como la fragilidad, la 
atención de las enfermedades crónicas, síndromes geriátricos y a las necesidades 
físicas, mentales y sociales. Una expectativa de vida libre de discapacidad debe 
basarse en la promoción de un envejecimiento activo y saludable que garantice 
que las personas mayores mantengan la máxima capacidad funcional. Para ello es 
fundamental evaluar y prevenir o revertir la fragilidad, evitando la progresión 
hacia la discapacidad y la mayor sobrecarga del sistema, las personas, familias 
y la sociedad en su conjunto.

PMID: 34620823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Front Plant Sci. 2021 Sep 16;12:707256. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2021.707256. 
eCollection 2021.

Plant Endophytic Fungus Extract ZNC Improved Potato Immunity, Yield, and 
Quality.

Cao J(1)(2)(3), Liu B(1)(4)(5), Xu X(1), Zhang X(2), Zhu C(1), Li Y(1), Ding 
X(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Crop Biology, Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory for 
Biology of Vegetable Diseases and Insect Pests, College of Plant Protection, 
Shandong Agricultural University, Tai'an, China.
(2)Shandong Pengbo Biotechnology Co., Ltd., Tai'an, China.
(3)Yanzhou Agricultural Technology Extension Center, Yanzhou, China.
(4)Yantai Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Yantai, China.
(5)College of Life Sciences, Yantai University, Yantai, China.

Endophytic fungi play an important role in plant survival and reproduction, but 
the role of their metabolites in plant growth and immunity, as well as in crop 
quality formation, is poorly understood. Zhinengcong (ZNC) is a crude ethanol 
extract from the endophytic fungus Paecilomyces variotii, and previous studies 
have shown that it can improve the growth and immunity in Arabidopsis thaliana. 
The aim of the study was to reveal the trade-off balance between plant growth 
and immunity by evaluating the mechanisms of ZNC on potato growth, yield, and 
priming immunity against the oomycete Phytophthora infestans indoors and in the 
field. ZNC maintained a good balance between plant growth and resistance against 
P. infestans with high activity. It induced the reactive oxygen species (ROS) 
production, promoted plant growth, yield and quality parameters, enhanced the 
expression of indoleacetic acid (IAA) related genes, and increased the 
absorption of nitrogen from the soil. Moreover, the plant endophytic fungus 
extract ZNC stimulated the pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP) 
triggered immunity (PTI) pathway and contributed to the ZNC-mediated defense 
response. Two years of field trials have shown that irrigation with ZNC at one 
of two optimal concentrations of 1 or 10ng/ml could significantly increase the 
output by 18.83% or more. The quality of potato tubers was also greatly 
improved, in which the contents of vitamin C, protein, and starch were 
significantly increased, especially the sugar content was increased by 125%. 
Spray application of ZNC onto potato plants significantly reduced the occurrence 
of potato blight disease with 66.49% of control efficacy at 200ng/ml and 
increased the potato yield by 66.68% or more in the field. In summary, plant 
endophytic fungus extract ZNC promoted potato immunity, yield, and quality and 
presented excellent potential in agricultural applications.

Copyright © 2021 Cao, Liu, Xu, Zhang, Zhu, Li and Ding.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2021.707256
PMCID: PMC8491004
PMID: 34621283

Conflict of interest statement: JC and XZ were employed by Shandong Pengbo 
Biotechnology Co., Ltd. The remaining authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


178. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2021 Sep 30;45:e114. doi: 10.26633/RPSP.2021.114. 
eCollection 2021.

Life expectancy, healthy life expectancy, and burden of disease in older people 
in the Americas, 1990-2019: a population-based study.

Martinez R(1), Morsch P(1), Soliz P(1), Hommes C(1), Ordunez P(1), Vega E(1).

Author information:
(1)Pan American Health Organization Washington D.C. United States of America Pan 
American Health Organization, Washington D.C., United States of America.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the life expectancy, healthy life expectancy, disease 
burden, and leading causes of mortality and disability in adults aged 65 years 
and older in the Region of the Americas from 1990 to 2019.
METHODS: We used estimates from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019 to 
examine the level and trends of life expectancy, healthy life expectancy, years 
of life lost, years lived with disability, and disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs).
RESULTS: Across the Region, life expectancy at 65 years increased from 17.1 
years (95% uncertainty intervals (UI): 17.0-17.1) in 1990 to 19.2 years (95% UI: 
18.9-19.4) in 2019 while healthy life expectancy increased from 12.2 years (95% 
UI: 10.9-12.4) to 13.6 years (95% UI: 12.2-14.9). All-cause DALY rates decreased 
in each older persons' age group; however, absolute proportional DALYs increased 
from 22% to 32%. Ischemic heart disease, stroke, and chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease were the leading causes of premature mortality. Diabetes 
mellitus, age-related and other hearing loss, and lower back pain were the 
leading causes of disability.
CONCLUSION: The increase in life expectancy and decrease of DALYs indicate the 
positive effect of improvements in social conditions and health policies. 
However, the smaller increase in healthy life expectancy suggests that, despite 
living longer, people spend a substantial amount of time in their old age with 
disability and illness. Preventable and controllable diseases account for most 
of the disease burden in older adults in the Americas. Society-wide and 
life-course approaches, and adequate health services are needed to respond to 
the health needs of older people in the Region.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Describir la esperanza de vida, la esperanza de vida 
saludable, la carga de enfermedad y las principales causas de mortalidad y 
discapacidad en personas adultas de 65 años o más en la Región de las Américas 
desde 1990 hasta el 2019.
MÉTODOS: Se emplearon estimaciones del estudio sobre la carga mundial de 
enfermedad del 2019 para examinar las tendencias y el nivel de la esperanza de 
vida, la esperanza de vida saludable, los años de vida perdidos, los años 
vividos con discapacidad y los años de vida ajustados en función de la 
discapacidad (AVAD).
RESULTADOS: En toda la Región, la esperanza de vida a los 65 años aumentó de 
17,1 años (intervalos de incertidumbre [IU] del 95 %: 17,0–17,1) en 1990 a 19,2 
años (IU del 95 %: 18,9–19,4) en el 2019, mientras que la esperanza de vida 
saludable se incrementó de 12,2 años (IU del 95 %: 10,9-12,4) a 13,6 años (IU 
del 95 %: 12,2–14,9). Las tasas de AVAD debida a cualquier causa disminuyeron en 
cada grupo etario de mayor edad; sin embargo, los AVAD absolutos proporcionales 
aumentaron de 22 % a 32 %. La cardiopatía isquémica, los accidentes 
cerebrovasculares y la enfermedad pulmonar obstructiva crónica fueron las 
principales causas de muerte prematura. La diabetes mellitus, la pérdida de la 
audición relacionada con la edad y de otro tipo, y la lumbalgia fueron las 
principales causas de discapacidad.
CONCLUSIONES: El aumento de la esperanza de vida y la disminución de los AVAD 
indican el efecto positivo de las mejoras de las condiciones sociales y las 
políticas de salud. Sin embargo, el menor aumento de la esperanza de vida 
saludable indica que, a pesar de vivir más tiempo, las personas pasan una parte 
sustancial de su vejez con discapacidades y enfermedades. Las enfermedades 
controlables y prevenibles representan la mayor parte de la carga de enfermedad 
de las personas mayores en la Región. Se requieren enfoques a escala de toda la 
sociedad y el curso de vida, y servicios de salud adecuados para responder a las 
necesidades de salud de las personas mayores en la Región.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Descrever a expectativa de vida, a expectativa de vida 
saudável, a carga de doenças e as principais causas de mortalidade e 
incapacidade em adultos a partir dos 65 anos de idade na Região das Américas de 
1990 a 2019.
MÉTODOS: Utilizamos estimativas do Estudo de Carga Global da Doença 2019 para 
examinar o nível e as tendências da expectativa de vida, expectativa de vida 
saudável, anos de vida perdidos, anos vividos com incapacidade e anos de vida 
ajustados por incapacidade (AVAI).
RESULTADOS: Em toda a Região, a expectativa de vida aos 65 anos aumentou de 17,1 
anos (intervalos de incerteza (II) de 95%: 17,0-17,1) em 1990 para 19,2 anos (II 
de 95%: 18,9-19,4) em 2019, enquanto a expectativa de vida saudável aumentou de 
12,2 anos (II de 95%: 10,9-12,4) para 13,6 anos (II de 95%: 12,2-14,9). As taxas 
de AVAI por todas as causas diminuiu em todos os grupos de pessoas idosas; 
porém, em termos absolutos, os AVAI proporcionais aumentaram de 22% para 32%. A 
cardiopatia isquêmica, o acidente vascular cerebral e a doença pulmonar 
obstrutiva crônica foram as principais causas de mortalidade precoce. A diabetes 
melitus, a perda da audição – em função da idade ou por outros motivos – e a dor 
lombar foram as principais causas de incapacidade.
CONCLUSÃO: O aumento da expectativa de vida e a diminuição dos AVAI indicam o 
impacto positivo das melhorias nas condições sociais e nas políticas de saúde. 
Porém, o menor aumento na expectativa de vida saudável indica que, apesar de 
viverem mais, as pessoas passam uma quantidade considerável de tempo na velhice 
com incapacidade e doença. As doenças preveníveis e controláveis representam a 
maior parte da carga de doença nas pessoas idosas nas Américas. Abordagens que 
afetem a sociedade como um todo e o curso de vida, e serviços de saúde 
adequados, são necessários para atender às necessidades de saúde das pessoas 
idosas na Região.

DOI: 10.26633/RPSP.2021.114
PMCID: PMC8489742
PMID: 34621302


179. Surg Neurol Int. 2021 Sep 13;12:464. doi: 10.25259/SNI_112_2021. eCollection
 2021.

Using smartphone-based accelerometers to gauge postoperative outcomes in 
patients with NPH: Implications for ambulatory monitoring.

Sprau AC(1), Basil GW(1), Eliahu K(1), Vallejo FA(1), Luther EM(1), Yoon JW(2), 
Wang MY(1), Komotar RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Miami, Miami, Florida, 
United States.
(2)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, United States.

BACKGROUND: The surgical treatment of normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) with 
shunting remains controversial due to the difficulty in distinguishing such 
pathology from other neurological conditions that can present similarly. Thus, 
patients with suspected NPH should be carefully selected for surgical 
intervention. Historically, clinical improvement has been measured by the use of 
functional grades, alleviation of symptoms, and/or patient/family-member 
reported surveys. Such outcome analysis can be subjective, and there is 
difficulty in quantifying cognition. Thus, a push for a more quantifiable and 
objective investigation is warranted, especially for patients with idiopathic 
NPH (INPH), for which the final diagnosis is confirmed with postoperative 
clinical improvement. We aimed to use Apple Health (Apple Inc., Cupertino, CA) 
data to approximate physical activity levels before and after shunt placement 
for NPH as an objective outcome measurement. The patients were contacted and 
verbally consented to export Apple Health activity data. The patient's physical 
activity data were then analyzed. A chart review from the patient's EMR was 
performed to understand and better correlate recovery.
CASE DESCRIPTION: Our first patient had short-term improvements in activity 
levels when compared to his preoperative activity. The patient's activity level 
subsequently decreased at 6 months and onward. This decline was simultaneous to 
new-onset lumbar pain. Our second patient experienced sustained improvements in 
activity levels for 12 months after his operation. His mobility data were in 
congruence with his subjectively reported improvement in clinical symptoms. He 
subsequently experienced a late-decline that began at 48-months. His late 
deterioration was likely confounded by exogenous factors such as further 
neurodegenerative diseases coupled with old age.
CONCLUSION: The use of objective activity data offers a number of key benefits 
in the analysis of shunted patients with NPH/INPH. In this distinctive patient 
population, detailed functional outcome analysis is imperative because the 
long-term prognosis can be affected by comorbid factors or life expectancy. The 
benefits from using smartphone-based accelerometers for objective outcome 
metrics are abundant and such an application can serve as a clinical aid to 
better optimize surgical and recovery care.

Copyright: © 2021 Surgical Neurology International.

DOI: 10.25259/SNI_112_2021
PMCID: PMC8492411
PMID: 34621579

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Gregory Basil: Co-founder and direct stock 
ownership in Kinesiometrics LLC Dr. Jang Yoon: Co-founder and direct stock 
ownership in Kinesiometrics LLC and Medcyclops LLC Dr. Michael Wang: Consultant 
for DePuy Synthes Spine, K2M, Stryker, and Spineology; patent holder with DePuy 
Synthes Spine; direct stock ownership in ISD, Medical Device Partners. 
Co-founder and direct stock ownership in Kinesimoetrics LLC.


180. Environ Epidemiol. 2018 Jun;2(2):e009. doi: 10.1097/EE9.0000000000000009.
Epub  2018 Apr 24.

Impact of long-term temporal trends in fine particulate matter (PM(2.5)) on 
associations of annual PM(2.5) exposure and mortality: An analysis of over 20 
million Medicare beneficiaries.

Eum KD(1), Suh HH(1), Pun VC(2), Manjourides J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Tufts University, Medford, 
MA.
(2)Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care, The Chinese University 
of Hong Kong, Sha Tin, Hong Kong.
(3)Department of Health Sciences, Bouvé College of Health Sciences, Northeastern 
University, Boston, MA.

Decreasing ambient fine particulate matter (PM2.5) concentrations over time 
together with increasing life expectancy raise concerns about temporal 
confounding of associations between PM2.5 and mortality. To address this issue, 
we examined PM2.5-associated mortality risk ratios (MRRs) estimated for 
approximately 20,000,000 US Medicare beneficiaries, who lived within six miles 
of an Environmental Protection Agency air quality monitoring site, between 
December 2000 and December 2012. We assessed temporal confounding by examining 
whether PM2.5-associated MRRs vary by study period length. We then evaluated 
three approaches to control for temporal confounding: (1) assessing exposures 
using the residual of PM2.5 regressed on time; (2) adding a penalized spline 
term for time to the health model; and (3) including a term that describes 
temporal variability in PM2.5 into the health model, with this term estimated 
using decomposition approaches. We found a 10 μg/m3 increase in PM2.5 exposure 
to be associated with a 1.20 times (95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.20, 1.21) 
higher risk of mortality across the 13-year study period, with the magnitude of 
the association decreasing with shorter study periods. MRRs remained 
statistically significant but were attenuated when models adjusted for long-term 
time trends in PM2.5. The residual-based, time-adjusted MRR equaled 1.12 (95% CI 
= 1.11, 1.12) per 10 μg/m3 for the 13-year study period and did not change when 
shorter study periods were examined. Spline- and decomposition-based approaches 
produced similar but less-stable MRRs. Our findings suggest that epidemiological 
studies of long-term PM2.5 can be confounded by long-term time trends, and this 
confounding can be controlled using the residuals of PM2.5 regressed on time.

DOI: 10.1097/EE9.0000000000000009
PMCID: PMC8493859
PMID: 34622119

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest statement The authors 
declare that they have no conflicts of interest with regard to the content of 
this report.181. iScience. 2021 Sep 11;24(10):103118. doi: 10.1016/j.isci.2021.103118. 
eCollection 2021 Oct 22.

Sirt1 promotes tissue regeneration in zebrafish through regulating the 
mitochondrial unfolded protein response.

Lin YF(1)(2)(3), Sam J(1), Evans T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Weill Cornell Medicine, 1300 York Avenue, LC-708, New 
York, NY 10065, USA.
(2)Institute of Biotechnology, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, 30013, 
Taiwan.
(3)Department of Life Science, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, 30013, 
Taiwan.

The mitochondrial unfolded protein response (UPRmt) is an organellar stress 
signaling pathway that functions to detect and restore disruption of 
mitochondrial proteostasis. The UPRmt is involved in a wide range of 
physiological and disease conditions, including aging, stem cell maintenance, 
innate immunity, neurodegeneration, and cancer. Here we report that the UPRmt is 
integral to zebrafish fin regeneration. Taking advantage of a novel zebrafish 
UPRmt reporter, we observed that UPRmt activation occurs in regenerating fin 
tissue shortly after injury. Through chemical and genetic approaches, we 
discovered that the Sirt1-UPRmt pathway, best known for its role in promoting 
lifespan extension, is crucial for fin regeneration. The metabolism of NAD+ is 
an important contributor to Sirt1 activity in this context. We propose that 
Sirt1 activation induces mitochondrial biogenesis in injured fin tissue, which 
leads to UPRmt activation and promotes tissue regeneration.

© 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2021.103118
PMCID: PMC8479786
PMID: 34622167

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


182. J Endovasc Ther. 2022 Jun;29(3):381-388. doi: 10.1177/15266028211049342.
Epub  2021 Oct 8.

Endovascular Aortic Repair in Patients of Advanced Age.

Khoury MK(1), Thornton MA(2), Heid CA(3), Babb J(1), Ramanan B(1)(4), Tsai 
S(1)(4), Kirkwood ML(1), Timaran CH(1), Modrall JG(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, The 
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
(2)Department of Statistical Science, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX, 
USA.
(3)Department of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, The University of Texas 
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
(4)Surgical Services, Dallas VA Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.

PURPOSE: Treatment decisions for the elderly with abdominal aortic aneurysms 
(AAAs) are challenging. With advancing age, the risk of endovascular aneurysm 
repair (EVAR) increases while life expectancy decreases, which may nullify the 
benefit of EVAR. The purpose of this study was to quantify the impact of EVAR on 
1-year mortality in patients of advanced age.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The 2003-2020 Vascular Quality Initiative Database was 
utilized to identify patients who underwent EVAR for AAAs. Patients were 
included if they were 80 years of age or older. Exclusions included non-elective 
surgery or missing aortic diameter data. Predicted 1-year mortality of untreated 
AAAs was calculated based on a validated comorbidity score that predicts 1-year 
mortality (Gagne Index, excluding the component associated with AAAs) plus the 
1-year aneurysm-related mortality without repair. The primary outcome for the 
study was 1-year mortality.
RESULTS: A total of 11 829 patients met study criteria. The median age was 84 
years [81, 86] with 9014 (76.2%) being male. Maximal AAA diameters were 
apportioned as follows: 39.6% were <5.5 cm, 28.6% were 5.5-5.9 cm, 21.3% were 
6.0-6.9 cm, and 10.6% were ≥7.0 cm. The predicted 1-year mortality rate without 
EVAR was 11.9%, which was significantly higher than the actual 1-year mortality 
rate with EVAR (8.2%; p<0.001). The overall rate of perioperative MACE was 4.4% 
(n = 516). Patients with an aneurysm diameter <5.5cm had worse actual 1-year 
mortality rates with EVAR compared to predicted 1-year mortality rates without 
EVAR. In contrast, those with larger aneurysms (≥5.5cm) had better actual 1-year 
mortality rates with EVAR. The benefit from EVAR for those with Gagne Indices 
2-5 was largely restricted to those with AAAs ≥ 7.0cm; whereas those with Gagne 
Indices 0-1 experience a survival benefit for AAAs larger than 5.5 cm.
CONCLUSION: The current data suggest that EVAR decreases 1-year mortality rates 
for patients of advanced age compared to non-operative management in the 
elderly. However, the survival benefit is largely limited to those with Gagne 
Indices 0-1 with AAAs ≥ 5.5 cm and Gagne Indices 2-5 with AAAs ≥ 7.0 cm. Those 
of advanced age may benefit from EVAR, but realizing this benefit requires 
careful patient selection.

DOI: 10.1177/15266028211049342
PMID: 34622707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2021 Sep-Oct;39 Suppl 132(5):80-87. doi: 
10.55563/clinexprheumatol/ra8ize. Epub 2021 Oct 6.

Apremilast for oral ulcers associated with active Behçet's syndrome over 68 
weeks: long-term results from a phase 3 randomised clinical trial.

Hatemi G(1), Mahr A(2), Takeno M(3), Kim DY(4), Saadoun D(5), Direskeneli H(6), 
Melikoğlu M(7), Cheng S(8), McCue S(8), Paris M(8), Chen M(8), Yazici Y(9).

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine and Behçet's 
Disease Research Centre, Istanbul University-Cerrahpaşa, Cerrahpaşa School of 
Medicine, and Behçet's Disease Research Centre, Istanbul, Turkey. 
gulenhatemi@yahoo.com.
(2)Clinic for Rheumatology, Cantonal Hospital St. Gallen, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Allergy and Rheumatology, Nippon Medical School, Musahi Kosugi 
Hospital, Kawasaki, Japan.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Yonsei University College of Medicine and 
Severance Hospital, Seoul, South Korea.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Immunology, Groupe Hospitalier 
Pitié Salpétrière, Paris, France.
(6)Division of Rheumatology, Marmara University, School of Medicine, Istanbul, 
Turkey.
(7)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine and Behçet's 
Disease Research Centre, Istanbul University-Cerrahpaşa, Cerrahpaşa School of 
Medicine, and Behçet's Disease Research Centre, Istanbul, Turkey.
(8)Clinical Development, Amgen Inc., Thousand Oaks, CA, USA.
(9)Division of Rheumatology, New York University School of Medicine, NY, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study assessed the efficacy and safety of apremilast for the 
oral ulcers associated with Behçet's syndrome (BS) up to 64 weeks.
METHODS: The phase 3, double-blind, placebo-controlled RELIEF study randomised 
adult patients with active BS to placebo or apremilast 30 mg twice daily for 12 
weeks, followed by an extension phase with all patients receiving apremilast 
through Week 64 and 4-week post-treatment follow-up (upon treatment 
discontinuation). The primary endpoint was area under the curve for the number 
of oral ulcers over 12 weeks (AUCWk0-12), reflecting the number of oral ulcers 
over time and accounting for their recurring-remitting course. Oral ulcer 
number, complete and partial responses, pain and disease activity and quality of 
life (QoL) were also assessed throughout the study.
RESULTS: A total of 207 participants were randomised and received at least one 
dose of study medication; 178 entered the extension phase and 143 completed Week 
64. AUCWk0-12 was significantly lower with apremilast versus placebo (p<0.0001), 
and oral ulcers number, pain, complete/partial responses, disease activity and 
QoL with apremilast versus placebo showed improvements at Week 12, which were 
maintained through Week 64. The most common adverse events were diarrhoea, 
nausea, headache and upper respiratory tract infection; no new safety concerns 
were observed with longer-term apremilast exposure.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with oral ulcers associated with BS, apremilast was 
efficacious and benefits were sustained up to 64 weeks with continued treatment. 
Apremilast was well tolerated, and safety was consistent with its known safety 
profile.

DOI: 10.55563/clinexprheumatol/ra8ize
PMID: 34622764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Medicine (Baltimore). 2021 Oct 8;100(40):e27303. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000027303.

A comparison between on-demand usage of rFVIIa vs prophylaxis use of emicizumab 
in high titer inhibitory hemophilia A patients in Iran: A cost-utility analysis.

Saiyarsarai P(1)(2), Robabpour Derakhshan A(1), Khedmati J(1), Eshghi P(3), 
Seyedifar M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacoeconomics and Pharmaceutical Administration, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Pharmaceutical Management and Economics Research Center (PMERC), The 
Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (TIPS), Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Pediatric Congenital Hematologic Disorders Research Center, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Hemophilia A (HA) is an inherited X-linked bleeding disease with 
costly treatment, especially for high titer inhibitory patients. Emicizumab, a 
new humanized bispecific antibody, has been approved for use to prevent or 
reduce the frequency of bleeding episodes in HA patients with inhibitors. This 
study evaluated the cost-utility of emicizumab prophylaxis (EP) in comparison 
with recombinant factor VII activated on-demand treatment in HA patients with 
inhibitors.
METHODS: A life-time Markov model with payer and societal perspectives was 
developed in different age groups with different annual bleeding rates (ABR). 
Efficacy of treatments were extracted from HAVEN trials. Utilities were 
retrieved from published evidence. Costs were calculated based on Iran food and 
drug administration official website, national tariff book for medical services 
and hospital data. One-way deterministic sensitivity analysis was performed.
RESULTS: EP was dominant choice in comparison with on-demand administration of 
recombinant factor VII activated in all age groups with ABR 20 and 25, and it 
remained dominant in patients with age 2 and age 12 at start point with ABR 16 
and 17. The reported incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for the group with ABR 
18 at the age 20, was 12,936 United States Dollars which is lower than the 
acceptable threshold of cost-effectiveness in Iran (1-3 gross domestic product 
per capita) and EP can be considered as cost-effective choice in this scenario.
CONCLUSION: EP was found to be a dominant and cost-effective choice for Iranian 
HA patients with factor VIII inhibitors with ABR 18 and above with considerable 
cost saving.

Copyright © 2021 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000027303
PMCID: PMC8500655
PMID: 34622828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


185. Obstet Gynecol. 2021 Oct 1;138(4):557-564. doi:
10.1097/AOG.0000000000004536.

Stepwise Approach to the Management of Endometriosis-Related Dysmenorrhea: A 
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.

Bohn JA(1), Bullard KA, Rodriguez MI, Ecker AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Oregon Health & Science University, 
Portland, Oregon.

Erratum in
    Obstet Gynecol. 2022 Jan 1;139(1):149-151.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of sequential medical and surgical 
therapy for the treatment of endometriosis-related dysmenorrhea.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness model was created to compare three stepwise 
medical and surgical treatment strategies compared with immediate surgical 
management for dysmenorrhea using a health care payor perspective. A theoretical 
study cohort was derived from the estimated number of reproductive age (18-45) 
women in the United States with endometriosis-related dysmenorrhea. The 
treatment strategies modeled were: strategy 1) nonsteroidal antiinflammatory 
drugs (NSAIDs) followed by surgery; strategy 2) NSAIDs, then short-acting 
reversible contraceptives or long-acting reversible contraceptives (LARCs) 
followed by surgery; strategy 3) NSAIDs, then a short-acting reversible 
contraceptive or LARC, then a LARC or gonadotropin-releasing hormone modulator 
followed by surgery; strategy 4) proceeding directly to surgery. Probabilities, 
utilities, and costs were derived from the literature. Outcomes included cost, 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. 
Univariate, bivariate, and multivariate sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: In this theoretical cohort of 4,817,894 women with 
endometriosis-related dysmenorrhea, all medical and surgical treatment 
strategies were cost effective at a standard willingness-to-pay threshold of 
$100,000 per QALY gained when compared with surgery alone. Strategy 2 was 
associated with the lowest cost per QALY gained ($1,155). Requiring a trial of a 
third medication before surgery would cost an additional $257 million, compared 
with proceeding to surgery after failing two medical treatments. The probability 
of improvement with surgery would need to exceed 83% for this to be the 
preferred first-line approach.
CONCLUSION: All sequential medical and surgical management strategies for 
endometriosis-related dysmenorrhea were cost effective when compared with 
surgery alone. A trial of hormonal management after NSAIDs, before proceeding to 
surgery, may provide cost savings. Delaying surgical management in an individual 
with pain refractory to more than three medications may decrease quality of life 
and increase cost.

Copyright © 2021 by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. 
Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/AOG.0000000000004536
PMID: 34623067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Financial Disclosure Dr. Rodriguez's institution 
has received funding for research projects on which she is primary investigator 
from: NIH, Arnold Ventures, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the World Health 
Organization, and Merck. She has served as a consultant for ACOG, Bayer, Merck 
and the World Health Organization. These potential conflicts of interest are 
managed by OHSU. The other authors did not report any potential conflicts of 
interest.


186. Cent Eur J Public Health. 2021 Sep;29(3):167-176. doi: 10.21101/cejph.a6861.

Respiratory syncytial virus acute respiratory infections in ≥ 65-year-old adults 
in long-term care facilities in the Czech Republic.

Beran J(1), Ramirez Villaescusa A(2), Devadiga R(3), Nguyen TL(2), Gruselle 
O(4), Pirçon JY(2), Struyf F(2), Devaster JM(4).

Author information:
(1)Vaccination and Travel Medicine Centre, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.
(2)GSK, Wavre, Belgium.
(3)GSK, Bangalore, India.
(4)GSK, Rixensart, Belgium.

OBJECTIVES: Due to immunosenescence and presence of comorbidities, respiratory 
syncytial virus (RSV) disease burden is a major health concern in older adults, 
which is expected to increase with the life expectancy rise. Data on RSV burden 
are scarce in older adults residing in long-term care facilities, a vulnerable 
population living in crowded settings. Therefore, two independent prospective 
studies were conducted during the 2003-2004 and 2004-2005 RSV seasons to assess 
RSV acute respiratory illnesses (ARIs) and lower respiratory tract infections 
(LRTIs) in ≥ 65-year-old adults residing in long-term care facilities in the 
Czech Republic.
METHODS: RSV ARI episodes were confirmed by polymerase chain reaction in nasal 
swabs collected within 3 days of symptoms onset. The mortality and morbidity of 
RSV-confirmed ARIs, as well as the risk factors associated with RSV-confirmed 
ARIs were evaluated.
RESULTS: Among 1,251 participants in the 2003-2004 season (ARI surveillance 
between October and March), there were no RSV-positive cases in 255 ARI and 105 
LRTI episodes. Among 1,280 participants in the 2004-2005 season (ARI 
surveillance between October and April), there were 39 and 26 RSV-positive cases 
in 335 ARI and 217 LRTI episodes, respectively, and RSV-positive ARI and LRTI 
episode incidence rates were 45.82 and 30.40 per 1,000 person-years. Among 290 
RSV-negative and 39 RSV-positive ARI cases in the 2004-2005 season, 15 and 4 
hospitalizations, 188 and 26 LRTIs, and 11 and 3 deaths were reported. Risk 
factors associated with RSV-positive ARI were female gender (odds ratio: 4.98), 
chronic heart failure class II (odds ratio: 2.31) and diabetes requiring insulin 
treatment (odds ratio: 9.82).
CONCLUSIONS: These studies showed that RSV was an important cause of ARI in 
older adults living in long-term care facilities in the 2004-2005 season, with 
fluctuating yearly incidences.

DOI: 10.21101/cejph.a6861
PMID: 34623114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Pharmacoeconomics. 2021 Nov;39(11):1343-1354. doi:
10.1007/s40273-021-01091-w.  Epub 2021 Oct 8.

Cost Effectiveness of Vericiguat for the Treatment of Chronic Heart Failure with 
Reduced Ejection Fraction Following a Worsening Heart Failure Event from a US 
Medicare Perspective.

Alsumali A(1), Djatche LM(2), Briggs A(3), Liu R(4), Diakite I(4), Patel D(4), 
Wang Y(5), Lautsch D(2).

Author information:
(1)BARDS-Health Economics and Decision Science, Merck & Co, Inc., 2000 Galloping 
Hill Road, Kenilworth, NJ, 07033, USA. adnan.alsumali@merck.com.
(2)Center for Observational and Real-world Evidence, Merck & Co, Inc., 
Kenilworth, NJ, USA.
(3)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(4)OPEN Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(5)BARDS-HTA, MSD Ltd, Hoddesdon, Hertfordshire, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Given the high economic burden of disease among adult patients with 
chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) following a 
worsening heart failure event in the US, this study aimed to estimate the cost 
effectiveness of vericiguat plus prior standard-of-care therapies (PSoCT) versus 
PSoCT alone from a US Medicare perspective.
METHODS: A four-state Markov model (alive prior to heart failure 
hospitalization, alive during heart failure hospitalization, alive post-heart 
failure hospitalization, and death) was developed to predict clinical and 
economic outcomes, based on the results of the VICTORIA trial, in which patients 
with chronic HFrEF following a worsening heart failure were randomized to 
placebo or vericiguat, in addition to PSoCT, which consisted of β-blockers, 
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone inhibitors, mineralocorticoid receptor 
antagonists, and the angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitor 
sacubitril/valsartan. Risks of heart failure hospitalization and cardiovascular 
mortality were based on multivariable regression models derived from VICTORIA 
data. Utilities were derived from VICTORIA EQ-5D data and the literature. Costs 
included drug acquisition, heart failure hospitalization, routine care, and 
terminal care. Primary outcomes included heart failure hospitalization, 
cardiovascular mortality, life-years, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and 
incremental costs per QALY gained over a 30-year lifetime horizon, discounted at 
3.0% annually.
RESULTS: For the VICTORIA overall intent-to-treat population, compared with 
PSoCT, vericiguat plus PSoCT resulted in 19 fewer heart failure hospitalizations 
and 13 fewer cardiovascular deaths per 1000 patients, as well as 0.28 QALY 
gained per patient at an incremental cost of $23,322, leading to $82,448 per 
QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the results of VICTORIA, patients treated with vericiguat 
had lower rates of heart failure hospitalization and cardiovascular death. The 
addition of vericiguat to PSoCT was estimated to increase QALYs and to be cost 
effective at a willingness-to-pay threshold of $100,000 per QALY gained.

© 2021. Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., 
Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., Andrew Briggs, Rongzhe Liu, Ibrahim Diakite, Dipen 
Patel.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-021-01091-w
PMCID: PMC8516766
PMID: 34623625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Rongzhe Liu, Ibrahim Diakite, and Dipen Patel 
are employees of OPEN Health, which received funding from Merck Sharp & Dohme 
Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, NJ, USA, to conduct the 
study. Adnan Alsumali, Laurence M. Djatche, Dominik Lautsch, and Yufei Wang were 
employees of Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., 
Kenilworth, NJ, USA, and may hold stock in Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, NJ, 
USA. Andrew Briggs received compensation from Merck & Co., Inc., as a consultant 
for this work. He has also been contracted by Bayer, Eisai, Janssen, Novartis, 
Sword Health, Amgen, and Daichii Sankyo and received compensation outside of the 
submitted work.


188. Clin Drug Investig. 2021 Nov;41(11):975-988. doi:
10.1007/s40261-021-01085-8.  Epub 2021 Oct 8.

The Cost-Effectiveness of a COVID-19 Vaccine in a Danish Context.

Debrabant K(1), Grønbæk L(2), Kronborg C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, University of Southern 
Denmark, Campusvej 55, 5230, Odense M, Denmark.
(2)Department of Economics, University of Southern Denmark, Campusvej 55, 5230, 
Odense M, Denmark.
(3)Department of Economics, University of Southern Denmark, Campusvej 55, 5230, 
Odense M, Denmark. cka@sam.sdu.dk.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Covid-19 vaccines approved by the EU, UK and USA have 
been found to be safe and effective. The cost effectiveness of these vaccines 
depends upon a number of factors. The aim of this paper is to explore the cost 
effectiveness of a COVID-19 vaccine and to analyse how the price of the vaccine 
and the cost of administrating it influence its cost effectiveness.
METHODS: We considered an epidemiological model developed by an expert group 
within 'Statens Serum Institut', which is a unit under the auspices of the 
Danish Ministry of Health. The model allowed us to differentiate between two 
population groups, those aged ≥60 years and those aged <60 years. We used the 
model to consider four scenarios: (i) vaccination of 25% of the total population 
(corresponding to approximately 1.5 million persons) but targeting vaccines 
towards the population aged ≥60 years, (ii) vaccination of 25% of the total 
population, targeting vaccines only towards the population aged <60 years, (iii) 
vaccination of 40% of the total population where 15% are aged <60 years and 25% 
are aged ≥60 years (corresponding approximately to the full Danish population 
aged >60 years), and (iv) 40% of the total population is vaccinated but vaccines 
are targeted solely towards those aged <60 years. The time horizon of the 
analysis was six months, and the perspective was that of the Danish healthcare 
sector.
RESULTS: The results show that inclusion of the elderly population aged ≥60 
years was more cost effective than a vaccination strategy that targeted a 
population aged <60 years old only, when productivity losses were not included. 
Furthermore, the results show that an extension of the target group from the 
elderly population only, to also include the younger population comes with an 
increasing cost per life-year gained. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
depends on the price of the vaccine, hereunder also the administration costs, 
and the discount rate used for the estimation of life-years or quality-adjusted 
life-years gained from a vaccine. Furthermore, inclusion of productivity losses 
in the analyses influenced the cost effectiveness of vaccination of the 
population aged <60 years of age.
CONCLUSION: The cost effectiveness of a COVID-19 vaccine is sensitive to whether 
or not productivity losses are included in the analyses. Without productivity 
losses, the elderly population should always be part of the target group for a 
COVID-19 vaccination programme. Taking productivity losses into account, at 
least in the case of low vaccine prices, vaccinating the younger population 
first can actually be cost effective.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40261-021-01085-8
PMCID: PMC8498982
PMID: 34623627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interests.


189. Cancer. 2022 Jan 15;128(2):317-325. doi: 10.1002/cncr.33917. Epub 2021 Oct
8.

Rising drug cost impacts on cost-effectiveness of 2 chemotherapy regimens for 
intermediate-risk rhabdomyosarcoma: A report from the Children's Oncology Group.

Russell HV(1)(2), Chi YY(3), Okcu MF(1), Bernhardt MB(1), Rodriguez-Galindo 
C(4), Gupta AA(5), Hawkins DS(6).

Author information:
(1)Texas Children's Cancer Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.
(2)Center for Medical Ethics and Health Policy, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, Texas.
(3)Department of Pediatrics and Preventative Medicine, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, California.
(4)St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee.
(5)Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Seattle Children's Hospital, University of Washington, Fred Hutchinson Cancer 
Research Center, Seattle, Washington.

BACKGROUND: The Children's Oncology Group clinical trial for intermediate risk 
rhabdomyosarcoma randomized participants to a combination of vincristine, 
dactinomycin, and cyclophosphamide (VAC) alone or VAC alternating with 
vincristine plus irinotecan (VAC/VI). Clinical outcomes were similar, but 
toxicity profiles differed. This study estimates the cost differences between 
arms from the health care system's perspective.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was used to estimate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of VAC versus VAC/VI. Protocol-required or 
recommended medications and laboratory studies were included. Costs were 
obtained from national databases or supporting literature and inflated to 2019 
US dollars. Demographic and outcome data were obtained from the clinical trial 
and directed chart reviews. Life-years (LY) were estimated from life-expectancy 
tables and discounted by 3% annually. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses and 
alternative clinical scenarios identified factors driving costs.
RESULTS: Mean direct medical costs of VAC and VAC/VI were $164,757 and $102,303, 
respectively. VAC was associated with an additional 0.97 LY and an ICER of 
$64,386/LY compared with VAC/VI. The ICER was sensitive to survival estimations 
and to alternative clinical scenarios including outpatient cyclophosphamide 
delivery (ICER $49,037/LY) or substitution of alternative hematopoietic growth 
factor schedules (ICER $73,191-$91,579/LY). Applying drug prices from 2012 
decreased the total costs of VAC by 20% and VAC/VI by 15% because of changes in 
dactinomycin and pegfilgrastim prices.
CONCLUSIONS: Neither arm was clearly more cost-effective. Pharmaceutical pricing 
and location of treatment drove costs and may inform future treatment decisions. 
Rising pharmaceutical costs added $30,000 per patient, a finding important for 
future drug-pricing policy decisions.
LAY SUMMARY: Two chemotherapy regimens recently tested side-by-side for 
rhabdomyosarcoma had similar tumor outcomes, but different side effects. The 
health care costs of each regimen were compared; neither was clearly more 
cost-effective. However, the costs of each treatment changed dramatically with 
choices of supportive medicines and location of treatment. Costs of treatment 
rose by 15% to 20% because of rising US drug costs not associated with the 
clinical trial.

© 2021 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.33917
PMCID: PMC8738099
PMID: 34623638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors report no 
conflicts of interest.


190. Int J Drug Policy. 2022 Jan;99:103458. doi: 10.1016/j.drugpo.2021.103458.
Epub  2021 Oct 6.

Cost effectiveness of simplified HCV screening-and-treatment interventions for 
people who inject drugs in Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania.

Mohamed Z(1), Scott N(2), Nayagam S(3), Rwegasha J(4), Mbwambo J(4), Thursz 
MR(5), Brown AS(5), Hellard M(6), Lemoine M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Metabolism, Digestion and Reproduction, Imperial College 
London, London, United Kingdom. Electronic address: zm204@ic.ac.uk.
(2)Burnet Institute, Melbourne, Australia; Monash University, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(3)Department of Metabolism, Digestion and Reproduction, Imperial College 
London, London, United Kingdom; MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease 
Analysis, Imperial College London, United Kingdom.
(4)Muhimbili National Hospital, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
(5)Department of Metabolism, Digestion and Reproduction, Imperial College 
London, London, United Kingdom.
(6)Burnet Institute, Melbourne, Australia; Monash University, Melbourne, 
Australia; The Alfred and Monash University, Melbourne, Australia; Peter Doherty 
Institute for Infection and Immunity, Parkville, Australia; University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Compared to other countries in sub-Saharan Africa, Tanzania has a 
relatively progressive illicit drug harm reduction (HR) policy, through a 
predominantly opioid substitution therapy-based programme. However, access to 
hepatitis C virus (HCV) diagnosis and curative direct acting antiviral therapy 
remains elusive. We developed a cost-effectiveness model to evaluate a 
simplified HCV screening-and-treatment intervention amongst PWID in 
Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania.
METHODS: A decision tree and Markov state transition model compared existing 
practice (no access to HCV viral confirmation and treatment) with the 
integration of point-of-care HCV screening and treatment within (1) existing HR 
services and (2) expansion to include PWID not currently engaged in HR. Outcome 
measures were screening, treatment, HR and disease-related costs per PWID, 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY) and disability adjusted life years (DALY). 
Cost-effectiveness was evaluated from a healthcare payer's perspective over a 
30-year time horizon over a range of willingness-to-pay thresholds (USD$273 to 
USD$1,050). Both deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses have been 
conducted.
RESULTS: Assuming a chronic HCV prevalence of 18.8%, screening-and-treatment in 
existing HR settings resulted in an ICER per QALY-gained and DALY averted of 
USD$633 and USD$1,161, respectively. Expanding to include an outreach programme 
for unengaged PWID yielded an ICER per QALY-gained and DALY-averted of USD$4,091 
and USD$10,288. Factors affecting the sensitivity of the ICER value included the 
cost of HR and the health utility of non-cirrhotic disease states.
CONCLUSION: Simplified HCV screening and treatment of PWID has the potential to 
be cost-effective in Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania. In practice, synergism of human 
and financial resources with established health programmes may offer a pragmatic 
solution to minimise operational costs.

Crown Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drugpo.2021.103458
PMID: 34624732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations of Interest All authors have no 
