METHODS: Data for the country-specific disability-adjusted life year (DALY) 
number, rate and age-standardised rate of trachoma together with related data of 
other common eye diseases were acquired from the Global Burden of Disease Study 
2019 database. The Socio-Demographic Index (SDI), Human Development Index (HDI), 
inequality-adjusted HDI and other related indices were obtained from published 
data or publicly available databases. Regression analyses were conducted to 
evaluate the associations between potential risk factors and the 
age-standardised DALY burden of trachoma.
RESULTS: The global DALY burden due to trachoma decreased by 37% from 1990 to 
2019 and decreased by 69.8% after adjusting for age and population growth, and, 
in available 1990-2019 data, had the greatest reduction in attributable DALYs of 
all common eye disease, with the others analysed being cataract, glaucoma, 
refractive disorders and age-related macular degeneration. Women had higher 
age-standardised DALY burden due to trachoma than men (p<0.001). The African 
region (p<0.001) had the heaviest burden among global regions. The 
age-standardised DALY rate was higher in countries with lower income (p<0.001) 
and lower SDI (p<0.001). Higher disease burden due to trachoma was associated 
with lower HDI (β=-48.102, 95% CI -86.888 to -9.316, p=0.016), lower SDI 
(β=-48.063, 95% CI -83.702 to -12.423, p<0.001) and lower expected years of 
schooling (β=-2.352, 95% CI -3.756 to -0.948, p=0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: The global disease burden due to trachoma decreased from 1990 to 
2019 and it had the greatest reduction compared with other common eye diseases. 
Lower HDI, socioeconomic status and educational level were related to a higher 
national disease burden of trachoma. Our findings could provide necessary 
information for trachoma control and prevention.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2021-319621
PMID: 34593412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


100. Anticancer Res. 2021 Oct;41(10):4665-4672. doi: 10.21873/anticanres.15280.

Common Pitfalls in the Management of Bone Metastasis of the Extremities - a 
Current Concept and Systematic Review of the Literature.

Dammerer D(1), Blum P(2), Krappinger D(1), Keiler A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Medical University of Innsbruck, 
Innsbruck, Austria.
(2)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Medical University of Innsbruck, 
Innsbruck, Austria philippblum1@gmx.de.

BACKGROUND/AIM: The surgical treatment of patients with bone metastasis of the 
extremities poses a set of unique challenges. We aimed to highlight common 
hazards when treating pathological fractures as well as hazards surrounding 
assumptions on metastatic status and life expectancy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This systematic literature review includes studies 
published from January 1, 1985 to May 7, 2021. Published articles were surveyed 
using PubMed. Of 99 studies, 32 original articles were found to meet the 
inclusion criteria. The PRISMA guidelines were used to select articles.
RESULTS: Current literature reports a variety of common pitfalls. In order to 
avoid pitfalls, it is essential to secure the diagnosis. Furthermore, life 
expectancy must be given consideration when planning surgical therapy. In 
addition, a well-functioning multidisciplinary team is needed to coordinate 
further options such as radiation or embolization.
CONCLUSION: Despite the fact that the surgical principles for treating bone 
metastases of the extremities are often to the point, incorporating all the 
nuances of treatment is a meticulous procedure.

Copyright © 2021 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. 
Delinasios), All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.15280
PMID: 34593414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. BMJ Case Rep. 2021 Sep 30;14(9):e242300. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2021-242300.

Subcutaneous facial emphysema secondary to a dental procedure.

Almeida SI(1), Faustino J(2), Duarte Armindo R(3), Mendonça V(1).

Author information:
(1)Paediatrics, Hospital Beatriz Ângelo, Loures, Lisboa, Portugal.
(2)Paediatrics, Hospital Dona Estefânia, Lisboa, Portugal 
joanamotafaustino@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Neuroradiology, Beatriz Angelo Hospital, Loures, Lisboa, 
Portugal.

Subcutaneous emphysema is a possible but infrequent consequence of dental 
procedures. We present the case of a 6-year-old healthy boy transferred from a 
dental clinic immediately after local anaesthesia for tooth extraction, due to 
sudden orbital and facial swelling. On physical examination, oedema of the left 
upper eyelid with fine crepitus on palpation and left hemiface oedema with local 
pain were observed. Ophthalmologic observation was normal. CT scan of the face 
and orbits documented extensive infiltration of the subcutaneous tissue planes 
of the left face by air, with extension to the external part of the body of the 
mandible, retromaxillary fat, masticatory muscle spaces, parapharyngeal space 
and adjacent to the orbital roof. After completing initial evaluation, the 
dentist confirmed the use of an air-driven device during local anaesthesia 
administration. The patient improved with conservative treatment. Early 
recognition of this condition is essential to provide an adequate clinical 
assessment with exclusion of possible life-threatening complications.

© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2021. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2021-242300
PMCID: PMC8487170
PMID: 34593546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


102. Front Psychol. 2021 Sep 14;12:681137. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2021.681137. 
eCollection 2021.

Biopsychosocial Predictors of Quality of Life in Paediatric Patients With Sickle 
Cell Disease.

Hood AM(1), Kölbel M(1), Stotesbury H(1), Kawadler J(1), Slee A(2), Inusa B(3), 
Pelidis M(3), Howard J(4)(5), Chakravorty S(6), Height S(6), Awogbade M(7), 
Kirkham FJ(1)(8)(9)(10), Liossi C(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Developmental Neurosciences Unit and Biomedical Research Centre, University 
College London Great Ormond Street Institute of Child Health, London, United 
Kingdom.
(2)Department of Primary Care and Population Health, University College London, 
London, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Paediatric Haematology, Evelina London Children's Hospital, 
Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Trust, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Haematological Medicine, King's College London, London, United 
Kingdom.
(5)Department of Haematology, Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, London, 
United Kingdom.
(6)Paediatric Haematology, King's College Hospital NHS Trust, London, United 
Kingdom.
(7)Department of Haematological Medicine, King's College Hospital NHS Trust, 
London, United Kingdom.
(8)Department of Clinical Haematology, University College London Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, London, United Kingdom.
(9)Department of Child Health, University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation 
Trust, Southampton, United Kingdom.
(10)Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton, 
United Kingdom.
(11)Department of Psychology, University of Southampton, Southampton, United 
Kingdom.
(12)Paediatric Psychology, Great Ormond Hospital for Children NHS Foundation 
Trust, London, United Kingdom.

Sickle cell disease (SCD) refers to a group of inherited blood disorders with 
considerable morbidity that causes severe pain, reduces life expectancy, and 
requires significant self-management. Acute painful episodes are the hallmark of 
SCD, but persistent daily pain is also highly prevalent in this population. 
Characterising the impact and experience of SCD-related morbidity (i.e., sleep 
disruption, frequent emergency department visits, cognitive dysfunction) on 
health-related quality of life (HRQOL) requires multiple assessment methods to 
best capture the underlying mechanisms. To gain a greater understanding of the 
effect of common symptom categories on HRQOL and to determine potential pain 
coping targets, the present study investigated whether demographic, 
socioeconomic, sleepiness, pain burden, frequency of emergency department (ED) 
visits, and cognition predicted HRQOL in a paediatric sample of patients with 
SCD. Our study was a secondary analysis of baseline assessment data of children 
with SCD aged 8-15 years (n = 30) in the Prevention of Morbidity in Sickle Cell 
Anaemia Phase 2b (POMSb2) randomised controlled clinical trial of auto-adjusting 
continuous positive airways pressure. Patients completed cognitive testing (IQ, 
Processing Speed Index, Delis-Kaplan Executive Function Scale (DKEFS) Tower, 
Conner's Continuous Performance Test), sleepiness (Epworth Sleepiness Scale), 
and HRQOL (PedsQL Sickle Cell Module) at baseline. Patients reported pain burden 
(Sickle Cell Pain Burden Inventory-Youth) each month over 8 visits. Caregivers 
provided demographic information and reported their child's executive function 
(Behavioural Rating Inventory of Executive Function) at baseline. Data from our 
analysis demonstrated that demographic factors (i.e., age, gender, level of 
neighbourhood deprivation) and treatment variables (i.e., hydroxyurea use) did 
not independently predict HRQOL, and laboratory values (i.e., haemoglobin, 
haematocrit, mean oxygen saturation) were not significantly correlated with 
HRQOL (ps > 0.05). However, sleepiness, pain burden, ED visits, and executive 
dysfunction independently predicted HRQOL (R 2 = 0.66) with large effects (η2 = 
0.16 to 0.32). These findings identify specific, measurable symptom categories 
that may serve as targets to improve HRQOL that are responsive to change. This 
knowledge will be useful for multimodal interventions for paediatric patients 
with SCD that include sleep management, pain coping strategies, and executive 
function training.

Copyright © 2021 Hood, Kölbel, Stotesbury, Kawadler, Slee, Inusa, Pelidis, 
Howard, Chakravorty, Height, Awogbade, Kirkham and Liossi.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2021.681137
PMCID: PMC8476744
PMID: 34594262

Conflict of interest statement: FK has received honoraria from Novartis and 
Bluebird Bio and has served as a consultant for Global Blood Therapeutics. AS is 
currently employed by Axio Research LLC and has served as a consultant for 
Providence Medical Technology, Intuitive Surgical Inc., Laborie, Janssen 
Pharmaceuticals, Pulse Biosciences, Stryker Corporation. The remaining authors 
declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or 
financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.


103. Ecol Evol. 2021 Aug 19;11(18):12845-12857. doi: 10.1002/ece3.8031.
eCollection  2021 Sep.

Impact of Oreochromis niloticus (Linnaeus, 1758) (Pisces: Cichlidae) invasion on 
taxonomic and functional diversity of native fish species in the upper Kabompo 
River, northwest of Zambia.

Jere A(1)(2), Jere WWL(1), Mtethiwa A(1), Kassam D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Aquaculture and Fisheries Science Africa Centre of Excellence 
in Aquaculture and Fisheries (AquaFish ACE) Faculty of Natural Resources 
Lilongwe University of Agriculture and Natural Resources Lilongwe Malawi.
(2)Department of Fisheries, Extension services Ministry of Fisheries and 
Livestock Solwezi Zambia.

Invasive alien species have been revealed to drastically alter the structure of 
native communities; however, there is scarce information on whether taxonomic 
and functional spaces occupied by native species are equally filled by exotic 
species. We investigated the diversity of native species to understand the 
impact of exotic Oreochromis niloticus in the upper Kabompo River, northwest of 
Zambia using taxonomic and functional diversity indices. To achieve this, two 
tests were performed (Test 1, compared natives in invaded and uninvaded 
sections; Test 2, compared natives in invaded section). A total of 17 species 
were collected for functional diversity computation, out of which fourteen (14) 
functional trait measurements linked to feeding, locomotion, and life history 
strategy were taken. Findings revealed that taxonomic and functional diversity 
values changed with invasion in both tests. Taxonomic diversity was 15% more in 
invaded than uninvaded sections in Test 1 and was not consistent across sampling 
points of invaded section in Test 2. Invaded areas were taxonomically less 
diverse, but functionally diverse in both tests. The analysis of similarity and 
nonmetric multidimensional scaling revealed no difference in Bray-Curtis 
similarity assemblages in both tests. Our findings revealed that exotic species 
more often occupy unfilled gaps in the communities often occupied by the native 
species; this is achieved by occupying functional spaces. Overall, changes in 
taxonomic and functional diversity of native species documented here partially 
confirmed impacts of O. niloticus invasion. Therefore, we recommend a 
multifaceted approach to assess cumulative impacts of invasion on native 
species.

© 2021 The Authors. Ecology and Evolution published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.8031
PMCID: PMC8462144
PMID: 34594543

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


104. China CDC Wkly. 2021 Apr 2;3(14):304-307. doi: 10.46234/ccdcw2021.076.

Prevention and Control of Cardiac Arrest in Healthy China.

Hou L(1), Wang Y(1)(2), Wang W(3).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, China.
(2)Public Health School, Baotou Medical College, Baotou, Inner Mongolia, China.
(3)The Center for Disease Control and Prevention of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous 
Region, Urumqi, Xinjiang, China.

Cardiac arrest (CA) usually occurs out of hospitals, comprising approximately 
50% of all cardiovascular deaths, which may delay achievement for Healthy China 
2030 goals for life expectancy and premature death from major chronic diseases. 
In this review of Chinese law and health policy, challenges and opportunities 
are explored for CA prevention and control. A considerable gap would remain even 
if the CA target in Healthy China 2030 are to be achieved on schedule. 
Therefore, CA should be included in the national disease prevention and control 
system and national projects, such as the Healthy Cities Initiative and the 
Primary Public Health Services to accelerate population-wide Cardiopulmonary 
Resuscitation training and Automatic External Defibrillation availability. 
Principles of CA prevention and control should be integrated into all relevant 
policies.

Copyright and License information: Editorial Office of CCDCW, Chinese Center for 
Disease Control and Prevention 2021.

DOI: 10.46234/ccdcw2021.076
PMCID: PMC8393016
PMID: 34594871

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest:No conflicts of interest 
were reported.


105. China CDC Wkly. 2021 Jul 9;3(28):593-598. doi: 10.46234/ccdcw2021.158.

Trends and Challenges for Population and Health During Population Aging - China, 
2015-2050.

Luo Y(1)(2), Su B(2)(3), Zheng X(2)(4)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health, School of Public Health, Peking University, 
Beijing, China.
(2)APEC Health Science Academy, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(3)Institute of Population Research, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(4)Institute for Global Health and Development, Peking University, Beijing, 
China.

What is already known about this topic? As the largest country in the world, 
China experienced a demographic transition at a historic scale during the past 
50 years with extraordinarily associated changes in the age structure of the 
population, declining fertility rates, accelerating process of population aging, 
and growing population scale. What is added by this report? This study presented 
future trends of five important population indicators in China. From 2015-2050, 
China experienced outstanding demographic changes - increases in life expectancy 
and declines in fertility rate - that have led to population aging. In addition, 
disability prevalence is growing, and life expectancy with disability is also 
increasing. What are the implications for public health practice? This study 
provided evidence of healthy life expectancy improvement and disease burden 
declining, healthy aging, and active aging. Due to the uncertainties of future 
trends of population structure changes, dynamic evaluations, timely adjustments, 
and innovations in population health strategy design and management should be 
strengthened to ensure quality of life under the background of population aging.

Copyright and License information: Editorial Office of CCDCW, Chinese Center for 
Disease Control and Prevention 2021.

DOI: 10.46234/ccdcw2021.158
PMCID: PMC8393078
PMID: 34594944

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: No competing interests 
declared.


106. Clin Hematol Int. 2021 Jun 12;3(2):72-76. doi: 10.2991/chi.k.210529.001. 
eCollection 2021 Jun.

Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation with a Novel Reduced Intensity Conditioning 
Regimen for the Treatment of Patients with Primary Cutaneous T-cell Lymphomas.

Stamouli M(1), Gkirkas K(1), Karagiannidi A(1), Iliakis T(2), Chondropoulos 
S(1), Thomopoulos T(1), Nikolaou V(3), Pappa V(1), Papadavid E(4), Tsirigotis 
P(1).

Author information:
(1)Hematology Division, 2nd Department of Internal Medicine, Propaedeutic, 
ATTIKON General University Hospital, National and Kapodistrian University of 
Athens, Greece.
(2)Hematology Division, 1st Department of Internal Medicine, Propaedeutic, 
LAIKON General Hospital, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece.
(3)1st Department of Dermatology, Syggros Hospital, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, Greece.
(4)2nd Department of Dermatology, ATTIKON General University Hospital, National 
and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece.

The prognosis of patients with mycosis fungoides (MF) and Sezary Syndrome (SS) 
varies greatly, from near normal life expectancy in patients with early stage, 
to a median survival of less than 2 years for those diagnosed with advanced 
stage disease. Initial response to treatment is almost always followed by 
relapse and, finally, most of patients enter a phase of advanced multi-drug 
resistant disease with a short life expectancy after multiple lines of 
treatment. Allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) is usually limited to 
patients with advanced disease resistant to multiple treatments. Retrospective 
registry-based studies have shown increased Non-relapse Mortality (NRM) rates in 
patients with poor performance status, as well as in patients treated with 
myeloablative conditioning regimens. Another major limitation of allo-SCT is the 
increased relapse rate which occurs in nearly 50% of the cases, and is probably 
due to the fact that only heavily pretreated patients with advanced disease are 
referred for allo-SCT. Due to the paucity of data, the ideal conditioning 
regimen which will provide the maximum therapeutic benefit without the cost of 
increased NRM is not currently known. In this article we present our experience 
with a novel regimen in the treatment of patients with advanced MF/SS.

© 2021 International Academy for Clinical Hematology. Publishing services by 
Atlantis Press International B.V.

DOI: 10.2991/chi.k.210529.001
PMCID: PMC8432398
PMID: 34595469

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare they have no conflicts of 
interest.


107. Curr Nutr Rep. 2021 Dec;10(4):399-412. doi: 10.1007/s13668-021-00372-2. Epub
 2021 Sep 30.

Substitution of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages for Other Beverages: Can It Be the 
Next Step Towards Healthy Aging?

Ertuglu LA(1), Afsar B(2), Yildiz AB(1), Demiray A(1), Ortiz A(3), Covic A(4), 
Kanbay M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Koc University School of Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey.
(2)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Suleyman Demirel 
University School of Medicine, Isparta, Turkey. afsarbrs@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, IIS-Fundacion Jimenez Diaz, 
Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Department of Nephrology, Grigore T. Popa' University of Medicine, Iasi, 
Romania.
(5)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Koc University School of 
Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: With the prolongation of life expectancy, the gap between 
lifespan and "health span," the disease-free lifespan, has been widening due to 
the massive burden of age-related chronic diseases and research on healthy aging 
has been gaining momentum. A growing body of evidence suggests that diet is a 
strong determinant of healthy aging and consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages 
(SSB), a major source of added sugars, predicts poor health outcomes in the 
aging population, including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and cancer. 
Evidence further supports a link between sugar-sweetened beverages-triggered 
pathological processes and biologic factors of aging, including inflammaging, 
oxidative stress, and alterations in intestinal microbiota. At present, 
substitution of sugar-sweetened beverages with healthier alternative beverage 
remains the most robust strategy to limit the deleterious effects of 
sugar-sweetened beverages on health worldwide and may help achieve healthy 
longevity. The purpose of this review is to provide an overview of mechanisms by 
which sugar-sweetened beverages consumption may impact the physiological aging 
process and how a simple intervention of beverage replacement may promote 
healthy aging.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recent findings indicate that SSB are associated with 
accelerated aging phenotype and activate various adverse biological processes 
such as chronic inflammation, oxidative stress, insulin resistance, and gut 
dysbiosis. Replacing SSB with healthier beverages may be a reasonable option to 
reduce the burden of chronic disease in the aging population and even prolong 
life and healthspan.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s13668-021-00372-2
PMID: 34595722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2021 Oct;27(10):1367-1375. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2021.27.10.1367.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of FOLFIRINOX vs gemcitabine with nab-paclitaxel as 
adjuvant treatment for resected pancreatic cancer in the United States based on 
PRODIGE-24 and APACT trials.

Kharat AA(1), Nelson R(1), Au T(1), Biskupiak J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacotherapy, University of Utah, Salt Lake City.

BACKGROUND: Pancreatic cancer is associated with low median overall survival. 
Combination chemotherapy regimens FOLFIRINOX and gemcitabine with nab-paclitaxel 
(GemNab) are the new adjuvant treatment standards for resectable pancreatic 
cancer. PRODIGE-24 and APACT trials demonstrated superior clinical outcomes with 
FOLFIRINOX and GemNab, each vs gemcitabine monotherapy. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate 
the cost-effectiveness of FOLFIRINOX vs GemNab for resectable pancreatic cancer 
in adults from the U.S. payer perspective, in order to inform decision makers 
about which of these treatments is optimal. METHODS: A Markov model with 3 
disease states (relapse free, progressive disease, and death) was developed. 
Cycle length was 1 month, and time horizon was 10 years. Transition 
probabilities were derived from PRODIGE-24 and APACT survival data. All cost and 
utility input parameters were obtained from published literature. 
Cost-effectiveness analysis was performed to obtain total costs, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), life-years (LYs), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). A 3% annual discount rate was applied to costs 
and outcomes. The effect of uncertainty on model parameters was assessed with 
1-way and probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PSA). RESULTS: Our analysis 
estimated that the cost for FOLFIRINOX was $40,831 higher than GemNab ($99,669 
vs. $58,837). Despite increased toxicity, FOLFIRINOX was associated with 
additional 0.18 QALYs and 0.25 LYs compared with GemNab (QALY: 1.65 vs. 1.47; 
LY: 2.09 vs. 1.84). The ICER for FOLFIRINOX vs GemNab was $226,841 per QALY and 
$163,325 per LY. FOLFIRINOX was not cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay (WTP) 
threshold of $200,000 per QALY, and this was confirmed by the PSA. CONCLUSIONS: 
Total monthly cost for FOLFIRINOX was approximately 1.7 times higher than 
GemNab. If the WTP threshold increases to or above $250,000 per QALY, FOLFIRINOX 
then becomes a cost-effective treatment option. DISCLOSURES: This research 
received no specific grant from any funding agency in the public, commercial, or 
not-for-profit sectors. The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2021.27.10.1367
PMCID: PMC10391115
PMID: 34595948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This research received no specific grant from 
any funding agency in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors. The 
authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.


109. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2021 Oct;27(10):1469-1481. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2021.27.10.1469.

Cost-effectiveness of gilteritinib for relapsed/refractory FLT3(mut+) acute 
myeloid leukemia.

Pandya BJ(1), Qi CZ(2), Garnham A(3), Yang H(2), Shah MV(1), Zeidan AM(4).

Author information:
(1)Astellas Pharma Global Development, Inc., Northbrook, IL.
(2)Analysis Group, Inc., Boston, MA.
(3)Astellas Pharma Global Development, Inc., Northbrook, IL, and Clear Health 
Economics, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Section of Hematology, Yale University 
School of Medicine, New Haven, CT.

BACKGROUND: Patients with relapsed or refractory (R/R) acute myeloid leukemia 
(AML) and confirmed feline McDonough sarcoma (FMS)-like tyrosine kinase 3 gene 
mutations (FLT3mut+) have a poor prognosis and limited effective treatment 
options. Gilteritinib is the first targeted therapy approved in the United 
States and Europe for R/R FLT3mut+ AML with significantly improved efficacy 
compared with existing treatments. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate gilteritinib against 
salvage chemotherapy (SC) and best supportive care (BSC) over a lifetime horizon 
among adult patients with R/R FLT3mut+ AML from a US third-party payer's 
perspective. METHODS: The model structure of this cost-effectiveness analysis 
included a decision tree to stratify patients based on their hematopoietic stem 
cell transplantation (HSCT) status, followed by 2 separate 3-state partitioned 
survival models to predict the long-term health status conditional on HSCT 
status. The ADMIRAL trial data and literature were used to predict probabilities 
of patients being in different health states until a conservative cure point at 
year 3. Afterwards, living patients followed the survival outcomes of long-term 
survivors with AML. Model inputs for utilities, medical resource use, and costs 
were based on the ADMIRAL trial, published literature, and public sources. All 
costs were inflated to 2019 US dollars (USD). Total incremental costs (in 2019 
USD), life-years (LYs), quality-adjusted LYs (QALYs), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated. Deterministic sensitivity 
analyses and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed. RESULTS: Over a 
lifetime horizon with a 3.0% annual discount rate, the base-case model estimated 
that gilteritinib led to an increase of 1.29 discounted QALYs at an additional 
cost of $148,106 vs SC, corresponding to an ICER of $115,192 per QALY; for BSC, 
results were an increase of 2.32 discounted QALYs, $249,674, and $107,435, 
respectively. The base-case findings were robust in sensitivity analyses. The 
estimated probabilities of gilteritinib being cost-effective vs SC and BSC were 
90.5% and 99.8%, respectively, in the probabilistic sensitivity analyses, based 
on a willingness-to-pay threshold of $150,000 per QALY. CONCLUSIONS: 
Gilteritinib is a cost-effective novel treatment for patients with R/R FLT3mut+ 
AML in the United States. DISCLOSURES: This work was supported by Astellas 
Pharma, Inc., which was involved in all stages of the research and manuscript 
development. Garnham, Pandya, and Shah are employees of Astellas and hold 
stock/stock options. Zeidan consulted and received personal fees/honoraria and 
research funding from Astellas. Zeidan also has received research funding from 
Celgene/BMS, Abbvie, Astex, Pfizer, Medimmune/AstraZeneca, Boehringer-Ingelheim, 
Trovagene/Cardiff Oncology, Incyte, Takeda, Novartis, Amgen, Aprea, and ADC 
Therapeutics; has participated in advisory boards; has consulted with and/or 
received honoraria from AbbVie, Otsuka, Pfizer, Celgene/BMS, Jazz, Incyte, 
Agios, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Novartis, Acceleron, Daiichi Sankyo, Taiho, Seattle 
Genetics, BeyondSpring, Cardiff Oncology, Takeda, Ionis, Amgen, Janssen, Syndax, 
Gilead, Kura, Aprea, Lox Oncology, Genentech, Servier, Jasper, Tyme, and 
Epizyme; has served on clinical trial committees for Novartis, Abbvie, Geron, 
Gilead, Kura, Lox Oncology, BioCryst, and Celgene/BMS; and has received travel 
support for meetings from Pfizer, Novartis, and Cardiff Oncology. Qi and Yang 
are employees of Analysis Group, Inc., which received consulting fees from 
Astellas for work on this study. Part of this material was presented at the 
American Society of Hematology (ASH) Annual Meeting; December 7-10, 2019; 
Orlando, FL.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2021.27.10.1469
PMCID: PMC10391321
PMID: 34595955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This work was supported by Astellas Pharma, 
Inc., which was involved in all stages of the research and manuscript 
development. Garnham, Pandya, and Shah are employees of Astellas and hold 
stock/stock options. Zeidan consulted and received personal fees/honoraria and 
research funding from Astellas. Zeidan also has received research funding from 
Celgene/BMS, Abbvie, Astex, Pfizer, Medimmune/AstraZeneca, Boehringer-Ingelheim, 
Trovagene/Cardiff Oncology, Incyte, Takeda, Novartis, Amgen, Aprea, and ADC 
Therapeutics; has participated in advisory boards; has consulted with and/or 
received honoraria from AbbVie, Otsuka, Pfizer, Celgene/BMS, Jazz, Incyte, 
Agios, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Novartis, Acceleron, Daiichi Sankyo, Taiho, Seattle 
Genetics, BeyondSpring, Cardiff Oncology, Takeda, Ionis, Amgen, Janssen, Syndax, 
Gilead, Kura, Aprea, Lox Oncology, Genentech, Servier, Jasper, Tyme, and 
Epizyme; has served on clinical trial committees for Novartis, Abbvie, Geron, 
Gilead, Kura, Lox Oncology, BioCryst, and Celgene/BMS; and has received travel 
support for meetings from Pfizer, Novartis, and Cardiff Oncology. Qi and Yang 
are employees of Analysis Group, Inc., which received consulting fees from 
Astellas for work on this study. Part of this material was presented at the 
American Society of Hematology (ASH) Annual Meeting; December 7-10, 2019; 
Orlando, FL.


110. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2021 Nov;21(11):1119-1137. doi: 
10.1080/14737159.2021.1987216. Epub 2021 Oct 13.

Toward an individualized determination of dialysis adequacy: a narrative review 
with special emphasis on incremental hemodialysis.

Torreggiani M(1), Fois A(1), Njandjo L(1), Longhitano E(2), Chatrenet A(1)(3), 
Esposito C(4)(5), Fessi H(6), Piccoli GB(1).

Author information:
(1)Nèphrologie et Dialyse, Centre Hospitalier Le Mans, Le Mans, France.
(2)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Unit of Nephrology and 
Dialysis, A.o.u. "G. Martino," University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(3)Laboratory "Movement, Interactions, Performance" (EA 4334), Le Mans 
University, Le Mans, France.
(4)Nephrology and Dialysis, ICS Maugeri S.p.A. Sb, Pavia, Italy.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy.
(6)Department of Nephrology, Hospital Tenon, Paris, France.

INTRODUCTION: The search for the 'perfect' renal replacement therapy has been 
paralleled by the search for the perfect biomarkers for assessing dialysis 
adequacy. Three main families of markers have been assessed: small molecules 
(prototype: urea); middle molecules (prototype β2-microglobulin); comprehensive 
and nutritional markers (prototype of the simplified assessment, albumin levels; 
composite indexes as malnutrition-inflammation score). After an era of 
standardization of dialysis treatment, personalized dialysis schedules are 
increasingly proposed, challenging the dogma of thrice-weekly hemodialysis.
AREAS COVERED: In this review, we describe the advantages and limitations of the 
approaches mentioned above, focusing on the open questions regarding 
personalized schedules and incremental hemodialysis.
EXPERT OPINION: In the era of personalized dialysis, the assessment of dialysis 
adequacy should be likewise personalized, due to the limits of 'one size fits 
all' approaches. We have tried to summarize some of the relevant issues 
regarding the determination of dialysis adequacy, attempting to adapt them to an 
elderly, highly comorbidity population, which would probably benefit from 
tailor-made dialysis prescriptions. While no single biomarker allows precisely 
tailoring the dialysis dose, we suggest using a combination of clinical and 
biological markers to prescribe dialysis according to comorbidity, life 
expectancy, residual kidney function, and small and medium-size molecule 
depuration.

DOI: 10.1080/14737159.2021.1987216
PMID: 34595991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Medicine (Baltimore). 2021 Oct 1;100(39):e27370. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000027370.

Cancer death and potential years of life lost in Feicheng City, China: Trends 
from 2013 to 2018.

Yang J(1), Zhao L(2), Zhang N(3), Du Z(4), Li Y(2), Li X(5), Zhao D(2), Wang 
J(3).

Author information:
(1)Liaocheng People's Hospital, Liaocheng, Shandong, China.
(2)Cancer Prevention and Trentment Center, Feicheng People's Hospital, Feicheng, 
Shandong, China.
(3)Shandong Cancer Hospital and Institute, Shandong First Medical University and 
Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Jinan, Shandong, China.
(4)Feicheng Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Feicheng, Shandong, 
China.
(5)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Shandong University, 
Jinan, Shandong, China.

This study aimed to evaluate the impact of cancer-related mortality on life 
expectancy in Feicheng City.We extracted the death records and population data 
of Feicheng City from 2013 to 2018 through the Feicheng Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention. The mortality, premature mortality, cause-eliminated 
life expectancy, potential years of life lost (PYLL), average potential years of 
life lost (APYLL), annual change percentage (APC), and other indicators of 
cancer were calculated. The age-standardized rates were calculated using the 
sixth national census (2010).From 2013 to 2018, the mortality rate of cancer in 
Feicheng City was 221.55/100,000, and the standardized mortality rate was 
166.37/100,000. The standardized mortality rate increased from 2013 to 2014 and 
then decreased annually. The premature mortality of cancer was 8.98% and showed 
a downward trend (APC = -2.47%, t = -3.10, P = .04). From 2013 to 2018, the 
average life expectancy of residents in Feicheng City was 78.63 years. 
Eliminating the impact of cancer, life expectancy could increase by 3.72 years. 
The rate of life loss caused by cancer in men was higher than that in women. The 
total life loss caused by cancer deaths was 126,870.50 person-years, the 
potential life loss rate was 22.51‰, and the average potential life loss was 
13.30 years. The standardized potential years of life lost rate showed a 
downward trend (APC = -2.96%, t = -3.72, P = .02), and APYLL decreased by 1.98% 
annually (t = -5.44, P = .01). The top 5 malignant tumors in APYLL were 
leukemia, breast cancer, brain tumor, liver cancer, and ovarian cancer.Lung 
cancer, esophageal cancer, female breast cancer, and childhood leukemia have a 
great impact on the life expectancy of residents in Feicheng City. Effective 
measures need to be taken to reduce the disease burden of malignant tumors.

Copyright © 2021 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000027370
PMCID: PMC8483870
PMID: 34596152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interests to 
disclose.


112. Microbiology (Reading). 2021 Oct;167(10). doi: 10.1099/mic.0.001088.

Analysis of mouse faecal dysbiosis, during the development of cachexia, induced 
by transplantation with Lewis lung carcinoma cells.

de Maria YNLF(1), Aciole Barbosa D(1), Menegidio FB(1), Santos KBNH(1), Humberto 
AC(1), Alencar VC(1)(2), Silva JFS(2), Costa de Oliveira R(1), Batista ML 
Jr(1)(3), Nunes LR(2), Jabes DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Núcleo Integrado de Biotecnologia, Universidade de Mogi das Cruzes (UMC), 
Brazil.
(2)Centro de Ciências Naturais e Humanas, Universidade Federal do ABC (UFABC), 
Brazil.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Boston University School of Medicine, USA.

Cachexia (CC) is a complex wasting syndrome that significantly affects life 
quality and life expectancy among cancer patients. Original studies, in which CC 
was induced in mouse models through inoculation with BaF and C26 tumour cells, 
demonstrated that CC development correlates with bacterial gut dysbiosis in 
these animals. In both cases, a common microbial signature was observed, based 
on the expansion of Enterobacteriaceae in the gut of CC animals. However, these 
two types of tumours induce unique microbial profiles, suggesting that different 
CC induction mechanisms significantly impact the outcome of gut dysbiosis. The 
present study sought to expand the scope of such analyses by characterizing the 
CC-associated dysbiosis that develops when mice are inoculated with Lewis lung 
carcinoma (LLC) cells, which constitutes one of the most widely employed 
mechanisms for CC induction. Interestingly, Enterobacteriaceae expansion is also 
observed in LLC-induced CC. However, the dysbiosis identified herein displays a 
more complex pattern, involving representatives from seven different bacterial 
phyla, which were consistently identified across successive levels of taxonomic 
hierarchy. These results are supported by a predictive analysis of gene content, 
which identified a series of functional/structural changes that potentially 
occur in the gut bacterial population of these animals, providing a 
complementary and alternative approach to microbiome analyses based solely on 
taxonomic classification.

DOI: 10.1099/mic.0.001088
PMID: 34596506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2021 
Nov;64(11):1463-1472. doi: 10.1007/s00103-021-03424-8. Epub 2021 Oct 1.

[Years of life lost: known methods and a refined approach using the example of 
the most frequent causes of death in Germany].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Hübner J(1), Mattutat J(2), Katalinic A(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozialmedizin und Epidemiologie, Universität zu Lübeck, 
Ratzeburger Allee 160, 23562, Lübeck, Deutschland. joachim.huebner@uksh.de.
(2)Institut für Krebsepidemiologie, Universität zu Lübeck, Lübeck, Deutschland.
(3)Institut für Sozialmedizin und Epidemiologie, Universität zu Lübeck, 
Ratzeburger Allee 160, 23562, Lübeck, Deutschland.

BACKGROUND: Years of life lost (YLL) is a meaningful indicator of the relevance 
of causes of death, although it is rarely used in Germany. Numerous methods have 
been developed to calculate YLL.
OBJECTIVE: Prototypical methods for calculating YLL are presented and critically 
appraised. An improved method is proposed that is based on cause-elimination 
life tables (CELTs).
METHODS: The different methods are applied to deaths in Germany in 2018. Changes 
in comparison to 1998 are presented using the modified method.
RESULTS: While in 2018 cardiovascular diseases were the leading cause of death 
by number of cases, cancer was responsible for most YLL. Different methods of 
calculating YLL lead to divergent ranks for less frequent causes of death. YLL 
on the basis of general life tables underestimate CELT-based YLL by up to 18.4% 
(cardiovascular diseases). Measured by CELT-based YLL, cardiovascular diseases 
were the most important cause of death in 1998.
CONCLUSION: The calculation of YLL on the basis of CELTs avoids inconsistencies 
of established methods and leads to relevantly different results. 
Characteristics of the proposed method (violation of the egalitarian principle, 
lack of additivity) do not affect its usefulness as a tool for health planning.

Publisher: ZUSAMMENFASSUNG: HINTERGRUND: Verlorene Lebensjahre (Years of Life 
Lost, YLL) sind ein aussagekräftiger, in Deutschland jedoch wenig verwendeter 
Indikator für die Relevanz von Todesursachen. Es existieren zahlreiche Methoden, 
mit denen YLL berechnet werden können.
ZIEL DER ARBEIT: Es werden prototypische Methoden zur Berechnung von YLL 
vorgestellt und kritisch eingeordnet. Auf dieser Basis wird eine verbesserte 
Methode vorgeschlagen, die auf der Nutzung von todesursachenbereinigten 
Sterbetafeln (Cause-Elimination Life Tables, CELT) beruht.
METHODEN: Etablierte Methoden und die hier vorgeschlagene Modifikation werden 
auf die Sterblichkeit in Deutschland 2018 angewandt. Veränderungen gegenüber 
1998 werden anhand der modifizierten Methode dargestellt.
ERGEBNISSE: Während nach der Zahl der Sterbefälle Herz-Kreislauf-Erkrankungen im 
Jahr 2018 die bedeutendste Todesursache waren, war Krebs für die meisten YLL 
verantwortlich. Unterschiedliche Methoden zur Berechnung der YLL führen zu 
deutlich abweichenden Rängen bei den weniger bedeutsamen Todesursachen. YLL auf 
Basis von allgemeinen Sterbetafeln unterschätzen die YLL auf Basis der 
todesursachenbereinigten Sterbetafeln um bis zu 18,4 % 
(Herz-Kreislauf-Erkrankungen). Gemessen an den CELT-basierten YLL waren im Jahr 
1998 Herz-Kreislauf-Erkrankungen die bedeutsamste Todesursache.
DISKUSSION: Die Berechnung von YLL auf der Basis von todesursachenbereinigten 
Sterbetafeln vermeidet Inkonsistenzen etablierter Methoden und führt zu relevant 
abweichenden Ergebnissen. Besonderheiten der vorgeschlagenen Methode (Verstoß 
gegen das Egalitätsprinzip, fehlende Additivität) beeinträchtigen ihren Nutzen 
als Instrument zur Steuerung der Gesundheitsversorgung nicht.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-021-03424-8
PMCID: PMC8485316
PMID: 34596700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2022 Jan;122(1):141-155. doi:
10.1007/s00421-021-04815-0.  Epub 2021 Oct 1.

Ischemic preconditioning of the muscle reduces the metaboreflex response of the 
knee extensors.

Angius L(1)(2), Pageaux B(3)(4), Crisafulli A(5), Hopker J(6), Marcora SM(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Department of Sport, Exercise and 
Rehabilitation, Northumbria University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK. 
luca.angius@northumbria.ac.uk.
(2)Endurance Research Group, School of Sport and Exercise Sciences, University 
of Kent, Chatham Maritime, UK. luca.angius@northumbria.ac.uk.
(3)École de Kinésiologie et des Sciences de l'Activité Physique (EKSAP), Faculté 
de Médicine, Université de Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada.
(4)Centre de Recherche de l'Institut Universitaire de Gériatrie de Montréal 
(CRIUGM), Montréal, QC, Canada.
(5)The Department of Medical Sciences, Sports Physiology Laboratory, University 
of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy.
(6)Endurance Research Group, School of Sport and Exercise Sciences, University 
of Kent, Chatham Maritime, UK.
(7)Department of Biomedical and NeuroMotor Sciences (DiBiNeM), University of 
Bologna, Bologna, Italy.

PURPOSE: This study investigated the effect of ischemic preconditioning (IP) on 
metaboreflex activation following dynamic leg extension exercise in a group of 
healthy participants.
METHOD: Seventeen healthy participants were recruited. IP and SHAM treatments 
(3 × 5 min cuff occlusion at 220 mmHg or 20 mmHg, respectively) were 
administered in a randomized order to the upper part of exercising leg's thigh 
only. Muscle pain intensity (MP) and pain pressure threshold (PPT) were 
monitored while administrating IP and SHAM treatments. After 3 min of leg 
extension exercise at 70% of the maximal workload, a post-exercise muscle 
ischemia (PEMI) was performed to monitor the discharge group III/IV muscle 
afferents via metaboreflex activation. Hemodynamics were continuously recorded. 
MP was monitored during exercise and PEMI.
RESULTS: IP significantly reduced mean arterial pressure compared to SHAM during 
metaboreflex activation (mean ± SD, 109.52 ± 7.25 vs. 102.36 ± 7.89 mmHg) which 
was probably the consequence of a reduced end diastolic volume (mean ± SD, 
113.09 ± 14.25 vs. 102.42 ± 9.38 ml). MP was significantly higher during the IP 
compared to SHAM treatment, while no significant differences in PPT were found. 
MP did not change during exercise, but it was significantly lower during the 
PEMI following IP (5.10 ± 1.29 vs. 4.00 ± 1.54).
CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrated that IP reduces hemodynamic response during 
metaboreflex activation, while no effect on MP and PPT were found. The reduction 
in hemodynamic response was likely the consequence of a blunted venous return.

© 2021. Crown.

DOI: 10.1007/s00421-021-04815-0
PMCID: PMC8748374
PMID: 34596759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No conflicts of interest, financial or 
otherwise, are declared by the authors.


115. Diabetes Ther. 2021 Nov;12(11):2977-2991. doi: 10.1007/s13300-021-01157-0.
Epub  2021 Oct 1.

The Cost-Effectiveness of an Advanced Hybrid Closed-Loop System in People with 
Type 1 Diabetes: a Health Economic Analysis in Sweden.

Jendle J(1), Buompensiere MI(2), Holm AL(3), de Portu S(2), Malkin SJP(4), Cohen 
O(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Sciences, Campus USÖ, Örebro University, 701 82, Örebro, 
Sweden. johan.jendle@oru.se.
(2)Medtronic International Trading Sàrl, Tolochenaz, Switzerland.
(3)Medtronic Denmark, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Ossian Health Economics and Communications, Basel, Switzerland.

INTRODUCTION: Swedish National Diabetes Registry data show a correlation of 
improved glycemic control in people with type 1 diabetes (T1D) with increased 
use of diabetes technologies over the past 25 years. However, novel technologies 
are often associated with a high initial outlay. The aim of the present study 
was to evaluate the long-term cost-effectiveness of the advanced hybrid 
closed-loop (AHCL) MiniMed 780G system versus intermittently scanned continuous 
glucose monitoring (isCGM) plus self-injection of multiple daily insulin (MDI) 
or continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) in people with T1D in Sweden.
METHODS: Outcomes were projected over patients' lifetimes using the IQVIA CORE 
Diabetes Model (v9.0). Clinical data, including changes in glycated hemoglobin 
(HbA1c) and hypoglycemia rates, were sourced from observational studies and a 
randomized crossover trial. Modeled patients were assumed to receive the 
treatments for their lifetimes, with HbA1c kept constant following the 
application of treatment effects. Costs were accounted from a societal 
perspective and expressed in Swedish krona (SEK). Utilities and days off work 
estimates were taken from published sources.
RESULTS: The MiniMed 780G system was associated with an improvement in life 
expectancy of 0.16 years and an improvement in quality-adjusted life expectancy 
of 1.95 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) versus isCGM plus MDI or CSII. These 
clinical benefits were due to a reduced incidence and a delayed time to onset of 
diabetes-related complications. Combined costs were estimated to be SEK 727,408 
(EUR 72,741) higher with MiniMed 780G, with treatment costs partially offset by 
direct cost savings from the avoidance of diabetes-related complications and 
indirect cost savings from the avoidance of lost workplace productivity. The 
MiniMed 780G system was associated with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
of SEK 373,700 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on a willingness-to-pay threshold of SEK 500,000 per QALY 
gained, the MiniMed 780G system was projected to be cost-effective versus isCGM 
plus MDI or CSII for the treatment of T1D in Sweden.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s13300-021-01157-0
PMCID: PMC8519965
PMID: 34596879


116. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2022 Mar 1;480(3):574-584. doi: 
10.1097/CORR.0000000000002001.

Microdiscectomy Is More Cost-effective Than a 6-Month Nonsurgical Care Regimen 
for Chronic Radiculopathy.

Glennie RA(1), Urquhart JC(2)(3), Koto P(4), Rasoulinejad P(2)(3)(5), Taylor 
D(2)(5), Sequeira K(6), Miller T(7), Watson J(8), Rosedale R(9), Bailey 
SI(2)(5), Gurr KR(2)(5), Siddiqi F(2)(5), Bailey CS(2)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
(2)Department of Surgery, London Health Sciences Center, London, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)Lawson Health Research Institute, London, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Nova Scotia Health, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
(5)Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Western University, London, 
Ontario, Canada.
(6)Regional Rehabilitation and Spinal Cord Injury Outpatients, Parkwood 
Institute, London, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, St. Joseph's Hospital, 
London, Ontario, Canada.
(8)Department of Anesthesia and Perioperative Medicine, St. Joseph's Hospital, 
London, Ontario, Canada.
(9)Occupational Health and Safety, London Health Sciences Center, London, 
Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2021 Oct 27;:null.

BACKGROUND: A recent randomized controlled trial (RCT), performed by the 
authors, comparing early surgical microdiscectomy with 6 months of nonoperative 
care for chronic lumbar radiculopathy showed that early surgery resulted in 
improved outcomes. However, estimates of the incremental cost-utility ratio 
(ICUR), which is often expressed as the cost of gaining one quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY), of microdiscectomy versus nonsurgical management have varied. 
Radiculopathy lasting more than 4 months is less likely to improve without 
surgical intervention and may have a more favorable ICUR than previously 
reported for acute radiculopathy.
QUESTION/PURPOSE: In the setting of chronic radiculopathy caused by lumbar disc 
herniation, defined as symptoms and/or signs of 4 to 12 months duration, is 
surgical management more cost-effective than 6 months of nonoperative care from 
the third-party payer perspective based on a willingness to pay of less than CAD 
50,000/QALY?
METHODS: A decision analysis model served as the vehicle for the cost-utility 
analysis. A decision tree was parameterized using data from our single-center 
RCT that was augmented with institutional microcost data from the Ontario Case 
Costing Initiative. Bottom-up case costing methodology generates more accurate 
cost estimates, although institutional costs are known to vary. There were no 
major surgical cost drivers such as implants or bone graft substitutes, and 
therefore, the jurisdictional variance would be minimal for tertiary care 
centers. QALYs derived from the EuroQoL-5D were the health outcome and were 
derived exclusively from the RCT data, given the paucity of studies evaluating 
the surgical treatment of lumbar radiculopathy lasting 4 to 12 months. 
Cost-effectiveness was assessed using the ICUR and a threshold of willingness to 
pay CAD 50,000 (USD 41,220) per QALY in the base case. Sensitivity analyses were 
performed to account for the uncertainties within the estimate of cost utility, 
using both a probabilistic sensitivity analysis and two one-way sensitivity 
analyses with varying crossover rates after the 6-month nonsurgical treatment 
had concluded.
RESULTS: Early surgical treatment of patients with chronic lumbar radiculopathy 
(defined as symptoms of 4 to 12 months duration) was cost-effective, in that the 
cost of one QALY was lower than the CAD 50,000 threshold (note: the purchasing 
power parity conversion factor between the Canadian dollar (CAD) and the US 
dollar (USD) for 2019 was 1 USD = 1.213 CAD; therefore, our threshold was USD 
41,220). Patients in the early surgical treatment group had higher expected 
costs (CAD 4118 [95% CI 3429 to 4867]) than those with nonsurgical treatment 
(CAD 2377 [95% CI 1622 to 3518]), but they had better expected health outcomes 
(1.48 QALYs [95% CI 1.39 to 1.57] versus 1.30 [95% CI 1.22 to 1.37]). The ICUR 
was CAD 5822 per QALY gained (95% CI 3029 to 30,461). The 2-year probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis demonstrated that the likelihood that early surgical 
treatment was cost-effective was 0.99 at the willingness-to-pay threshold, as 
did the one-way sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSION: Early surgery is cost-effective compared with nonoperative care in 
patients who have had chronic sciatica for 4 to 12 months. Decision-makers 
should ensure adequate funding to allow timely access to surgical care given 
that it is highly likely that early surgical intervention is potentially 
cost-effective in single-payer systems. Future work should focus on both the 
clinical effectiveness of the treatment of chronic radiculopathy and the costs 
of these treatments from a societal perspective to account for occupational 
absences and lost patient productivity. Parallel cost-utility analyses are 
critical so that appropriate decisions about resource allocation can be made.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III, economic and decision analysis.

Copyright © 2021 by the Association of Bone and Joint Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1097/CORR.0000000000002001
PMCID: PMC8846342
PMID: 34597280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Each author certifies that there are no funding 
or commercial associations (consultancies, stock ownership, equity interest, 
patent/licensing arrangements, etc.) that might pose a conflict of interest in 
connection with the submitted article related to the author or any immediate 
family members. All ICMJE Conflict of Interest Forms for authors and Clinical 
Orthopaedics and Related Research® editors and board members are on file with 
the publication and can be viewed on request.


117. Lancet Respir Med. 2022 Jan;10(1):11-25. doi: 10.1016/S2213-2600(21)00322-2.
 Epub 2021 Sep 28.

Long-term safety and efficacy of dupilumab in patients with moderate-to-severe 
asthma (TRAVERSE): an open-label extension study.

Wechsler ME(1), Ford LB(2), Maspero JF(3), Pavord ID(4), Papi A(5), Bourdin 
A(6), Watz H(7), Castro M(8), Nenasheva NM(9), Tohda Y(10), Langton D(11), 
Cardona G(12), Domingo C(13), Park HS(14), Chapman KR(15), Mao X(16), Zhang 
Y(17), Khan AH(18), Deniz Y(17), Rowe PJ(16), Kapoor U(16), Khokhar FA(17), 
Mannent LP(18), Ruddy M(17), Laws E(16), Amin N(17), Hardin M(16).

Author information:
