glycemic targets would be more appropriate. Poor cognition, vision and hearing, 
impaired mobility, depression, and chronic pain can interfere with complex 
insulin regimens. In these individuals, the principal goals of therapy are to 
reduce the acute effects of hyperglycemia, minimize hypoglycemia risk, and 
optimize quality of life. The newer insulin preparations and technological 
advances in insulin delivery and blood glucose monitoring have enhanced the 
management of type 1 diabetes in all age groups.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-021-00900-3
PMID: 34664212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2021;1329:325-349. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-73119-9_17.

Brain Metastases and Microenvironment.

Brito MA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Medicines (iMed.ULisboa), Faculdade de Farmácia, 
Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal. abrito@ff.ulisboa.pt.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Medicines, Faculdade de Farmácia, 
Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal. abrito@ff.ulisboa.pt.

The formidable advances in cancer treatment have led to remarkable improvements 
in patient's survival, so that the major concern shifted from primary tumors to 
metastatic disease. Brain metastases represent a life-threatening condition with 
a poor prognosis due to the lack of reliable biomarkers that preclude their 
timely identification and to the scarce therapeutic possibilities considering 
that the blood-brain barrier limits the access of most of the drugs to the brain 
and surgical resection is discouraged in cases of multiple metastases. Moreover, 
brain metastases have been scarcely investigated, which precludes a 
comprehensive understanding of the determinants and players, as well as of the 
complex cross-talk and signaling pathways involved. This chapter summarizes the 
impressive numbers about cancer and brain metastases and the estimates of 
progression in the years to come. It also gathers together the relevant concepts 
about the metastatic cascade, focusing in the extravasation step across the 
microvascular endothelium that leads to the formation of brain metastases. 
Moreover, it comprehensively explores the brain tumor microenvironment, 
detailing on the pre-metastatic niches and their relevance for tumor cell 
development in the target organ. Additionally, the cellular and acellular 
components, as well as their interplay, activation status, and acquired 
phenotypes, are addressed. Collectively, by bringing together historical 
concepts and state-of-the-art knowledge, this chapter shall contribute to a 
better understanding of the brain metastasization process, essential for the 
development of novel approaches to improve patients' life quality and 
expectancy.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-73119-9_17
PMID: 34664247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2022 Feb;70(2):481-489. doi: 10.1111/jgs.17520. Epub 2021
Oct  18.

Life expectancy with and without dementia in persons with mild cognitive 
impairment in the community.

Mooldijk SS(1), Yaqub A(1), Wolters FJ(1)(2), Licher S(1), Koudstaal PJ(3), 
Ikram MK(1)(3), Ikram MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Radiology & Nuclear Medicine, Erasmus University Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Neurology, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Various clinical studies have provided estimates of life expectancy 
of patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) from outpatient clinics, but 
whether these apply to community-dwelling individuals at home or in primary care 
is uncertain.
METHODS: Within the population-based Rotterdam Study, we studied life expectancy 
with and without dementia in 648 community-dwelling persons with MCI and 6410 
without MCI. Participants aged 60 years and older were assessed for MCI at 
baseline (2002-2014) and subsequently followed for the onset of dementia and 
death. We used multistate life tables to determine age-specific life expectancy 
with and without dementia by sex, educational attainment, and MCI subtype.
RESULTS: Total life expectancy for MCI ranged from 21.4 years (95% CI: 
19.0-23.6) at age 60 to 2.6 years (1.6-3.6) at age 95. With advancing age, an 
increasing proportion of these years was lived with dementia (2.9 years 
[1.8-4.0] at age 60; 1.2 [0.2-2.2] at age 95). Women and higher educated 
individuals lived longer and lived more years with dementia. No differences in 
total life expectancy were observed by MCI subtype, although individuals with 
amnestic MCI lived a larger proportion of those years with dementia.
CONCLUSIONS: Prognosis of MCI, in terms of life years lived with and without 
dementia, is more favorable in the general population than described in prior 
clinical observations, due likely to a substantial proportion of individuals 
with MCI in the clinic not seeking medical attention in an earlier stage.

© 2021 The Authors. Journal of the American Geriatrics Society published by 
Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The American Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.17520
PMCID: PMC9298312
PMID: 34664261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest.


328. Ann Med. 2021 Dec;53(1):1839-1849. doi: 10.1080/07853890.2021.1990393.

Unruptured cerebral aneurysms in elderly patients: key challenges and 
management.

Caffes N(1), Wenger N(1), Cannarsa G(1), Oliver J(1), Onwukwe C(1), Gandhi D(2), 
Simard JM(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Department of Radiology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Department Pathology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
MD, USA.
(4)Department of Physiology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.

Unruptured cerebral aneurysms are increasingly identified in elderly patients as 
the global life expectancy continues to rise and non-invasive vascular imaging 
becomes more prevalent. The optimal management of unruptured aneurysms in 
elderly patients remains controversial. Variability in life expectancy, 
comorbidities and rupture risk coupled with heterogenous endovascular and 
surgical treatments contribute to a paucity of clear guidelines, and current 
management is highly individualized. Elderly patients present unique 
considerations including frailty, cognitive dysfunction, vasculopathy, reduced 
life expectancy and overall worse prognosis in case of rupture which shape the 
risks and likelihood of success of endovascular and microsurgical treatment. In 
this review, we provide a comprehensive overview of unruptured cerebral 
aneurysms in the elderly, with a particular focus on the natural history, key 
challenges associated with advanced age, management and future innovations to 
further refine treatment.Key MessagesThe management of unruptured cerebral 
aneurysms in elderly patients remains controversial.Key challenges including 
frailty, cognitive dysfunction, reduced life expectancy, vasculopathy and poor 
prognosis with aneurysm rupture add complexity to endovascular and surgical 
decision making not encountered with younger demographics.A thorough 
understanding of available treatment options, likelihood of treatment success 
and associated risks weighed against the risk of aneurysm rupture informs 
patient discussion and management.

DOI: 10.1080/07853890.2021.1990393
PMCID: PMC8530485
PMID: 34664535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare that we have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this article.


329. JMIR Res Protoc. 2021 Oct 19;10(10):e28080. doi: 10.2196/28080.

The Chicago Health and Life Experiences of Women Couples Study: Protocol for a 
Study of Stress, Hazardous Drinking, and Intimate Partner Aggression Among 
Sexual Minority Women and Their Partners.

Veldhuis CB(1), Porsch LM(1), Bochicchio LA(1), Campbell J(2), Johnson TP(3), 
LeBlanc AJ(4), Leonard KE(5), Wall M(6), Wilsnack SC(7), Xu M(1), Hughes TL(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Columbia University, New York, NY, United States.
(2)School of Nursing, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, United States.
(3)Department of Public Administration, University of Illinois - Chicago, 
Chicago, IL, United States.
(4)Health Equity Institute, San Francisco State University, San Francisco, CA, 
United States.
(5)Clinical and Research Institute on Addictions, University at Buffalo, 
Buffalo, NY, United States.
(6)Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, NY, United 
States.
(7)School of Medicine & Health Sciences, University of North Dakota, Grand 
Forks, ND, United States.

BACKGROUND: Large gaps exist in research on alcohol use and intimate partner 
aggression (IPA) among sexual minority women (SMW; eg, lesbian, bisexual). 
Dyadic research with SMW and their partners can illuminate how couple-level 
factors operate in conjunction with individual-level factors to shape well-being 
in this understudied and vulnerable population. Given the traditionally gendered 
lens with which women are primarily viewed as victims and men as perpetrators, 
understanding the dynamics of IPA in same-sex female couples can also advance 
research and practice related to IPA more generally.
OBJECTIVE: Guided by a recent extension of the minority stress model that 
includes relational (couple-level) sexual minority stress and the I-cubed 
theoretical perspective on IPA, we will collect individual and dyadic data to 
better characterize the links between hazardous drinking and IPA among SMW and 
their partners. First, this study aims to examine the associations among 
minority stress, hazardous drinking, and IPA in SMW and their partners. Minority 
stressors will be assessed as both individual and couple-level constructs, thus 
further extending the minority stress model. Second, we aim to examine potential 
mediators and moderators of the associations among minority stress, hazardous 
drinking, and IPA. Finally, we aim to test models guided by the I-cubed 
theoretical perspective that includes instigating (eg, relationship conflict), 
impelling (eg, negative affect and trait anger), and inhibiting (eg, 
relationship commitment and emotion regulation) or disinhibiting (eg, hazardous 
drinking) influences on IPA perpetration.
METHODS: This United States National Institutes of Health-funded project will 
draw from a large and diverse cohort of SMW currently enrolled in the Chicago 
Health and Life Experiences of Women (CHLEW) study-a 21-year longitudinal study 
of risk factors and consequences associated with SMW hazardous drinking. SMW 
currently enrolled in the CHLEW and their partners will be invited to 
participate in the CHLEW Couples Study. By analyzing dyadic data using 
actor-partner interdependence models, we will examine how each partner's 
minority stress, hazardous drinking, and IPA experiences are associated with 
both her own and her partner's minority stress, hazardous drinking, and IPA 
perpetration.
RESULTS: Data collection began in February 2021 and will likely continue through 
2023. Initial results should be available by mid-2024.
CONCLUSIONS: The CHLEW Couples Study will fill important gaps in knowledge and 
provide the basis for future research aimed at clarifying the causal pathways 
linking hazardous drinking and IPA among SMW. This will support the development 
of culturally appropriate targeted individual and dyadic prevention and 
intervention strategies.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/28080.

©Cindy B Veldhuis, Lauren M Porsch, Lauren A Bochicchio, Jacquelyn Campbell, 
Timothy P Johnson, Allen J LeBlanc, Kenneth E Leonard, Melanie Wall, Sharon C 
Wilsnack, Mariah Xu, Tonda L Hughes. Originally published in JMIR Research 
Protocols (https://www.researchprotocols.org), 19.10.2021.

DOI: 10.2196/28080
PMCID: PMC8564669
PMID: 34665154

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


330. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2021
Sep;29(5):1179-1185.  doi: 10.32687/0869-866X-2021-29-5-1179-1185.

[The financial mechanisms in health care system and medical services].

[Article in Russian]

Tishutin AA(1).

Author information:
(1)The Federal State Budget Educational Institution of Higher Education "The A. 
N. Kosygin Russian State University (Technologies. Design. Art)" 117997 Moscow, 
Russia, tishutin.andrej@yandex.ru.

The article considers financial mechanisms applied in provision of medical 
services in the Russian health care system. The data concerning the structure of 
state financing and personal expenses of Russian citizens in health care system 
is presented. The financial resources in the Russian health care system are 
formed on the basis of mixed model consisting of personal funds of citizens 
(private sources of financing) and public funds allocated by budget system to 
implement the program of state guarantees of free medical care to citizens. 
Nowadays, the citizens have an opportunity to pay the cost of medical services 
directly when applying to medical organizations and through medical insurance 
organization, purchasing voluntary medical insurance policy and visiting medical 
organizations when insurance case occurred. The key goal of financial policy in 
concerning health care is the implementation of directions contributing to 
increase of financial sources in the system of medical services provision, 
population health support and improving efficiency of financial mechanisms 
application. The effectiveness of use of financial resources in health care 
determines the efficiency of impact of financial policy on national economy.

DOI: 10.32687/0869-866X-2021-29-5-1179-1185
PMID: 34665556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. PLoS Med. 2021 Oct 19;18(10):e1003818. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1003818. 
eCollection 2021 Oct.

Health and economic benefits of achieving hepatitis C virus elimination in 
Pakistan: A modelling study and economic analysis.

Lim AG(1), Scott N(2), Walker JG(1), Hamid S(3), Hellard M(2), Vickerman P(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University of Bristol, 
Bristol, United Kingdom.
(2)Burnet Institute, Melbourne, Australia.
(3)Aga Khan University, Karachi, Pakistan.

BACKGROUND: Modelling suggests that achieving the WHO incidence target for 
hepatitis C virus (HCV) elimination in Pakistan could cost US$3.87 billion over 
2018 to 2030. However, the economic benefits from integrating services or 
improving productivity were not included.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We adapt a HCV transmission model for Pakistan to estimate 
the impact, costs, and cost-effectiveness of achieving HCV elimination (reducing 
annual HCV incidence by 80% by 2030) with stand-alone service delivery, or 
partially integrating one-third of initial HCV testing into existing healthcare 
services. We estimate the net economic benefits by comparing the required 
investment in screening, treatment, and healthcare management to the economic 
productivity gains from reduced HCV-attributable absenteeism, presenteeism, and 
premature deaths. We also calculate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) per disability-adjusted life year (DALY) averted for HCV elimination 
versus maintaining current levels of HCV treatment. This is compared to an 
opportunity cost-based willingness-to-pay threshold for Pakistan (US$148 to 
US$198/DALY). Compared to existing levels of treatment, scaling up screening and 
treatment to achieve HCV elimination in Pakistan averts 5.57 (95% uncertainty 
interval (UI) 3.80 to 8.22) million DALYs and 333,000 (219,000 to 509,000) 
HCV-related deaths over 2018 to 2030. If HCV testing is partially integrated, 
this scale-up requires an investment of US$1.45 (1.32 to 1.60) billion but will 
result in US$1.30 (0.94 to 1.72) billion in improved economic productivity over 
2018 to 2030. This elimination strategy is highly cost-effective (ICER = US$29 
per DALY averted) by 2030, with it becoming cost-saving by 2031 and having a net 
economic benefit of US$9.10 (95% UI 6.54 to 11.99) billion by 2050. Limitations 
include uncertainty around what level of integration is possible within existing 
primary healthcare services as well as a lack of Pakistan-specific data on 
disease-related healthcare management costs or productivity losses due to HCV.
CONCLUSIONS: Investment in HCV elimination can bring about substantial societal 
health and economic benefits for Pakistan.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1003818
PMCID: PMC8525773
PMID: 34665815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal’s policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: PV and JGW have an 
unrestricted research grant from Gilead, not related to this work. NS has 
received investigator-initiated funding from Gilead Sciences for unrelated work. 
MH’s Institute received investigator-initiated research funding from Gilead 
Sciences and Abbvie for work unrelated to this project. SH has received funding 
from Gilead outside the submitted work. All other authors have nothing to 
declare.


332. Orthop Traumatol Surg Res. 2022 Feb;108(1S):103117. doi: 
10.1016/j.otsr.2021.103117. Epub 2021 Oct 16.

Interimplant femoral fractures.

Bonnomet F(1), Favreau H(2), Bonnevialle P(3), Adam P(2), Ehlinger M(2).

Author information:
(1)Service d'orthopédie et de traumatologie, hôpital de Hautepierre, hôpitaux 
universitaires de Strasbourg, 67098 Strasbourg, France. Electronic address: 
francois.bonnomet@chru-strasbourg.fr.
(2)Service d'orthopédie et de traumatologie, hôpital de Hautepierre, hôpitaux 
universitaires de Strasbourg, 67098 Strasbourg, France.
(3)Département universitaire d'orthopédie traumatologie, hôpital Paul-Riquet, 
place Baylac, 31052 Toulouse, France.

The number of hip or knee arthroplasties, and internal fixations of the proximal 
and distal femur, is increasing in proportion to the growing and ageing 
population, whose life expectancy is lengthening. Thus, fractures of the femur 
between proximal and distal implants, although rare, are becoming more frequent. 
Women over the age of 70, with fragile bones and whose ends of the two implants 
are close to each other ("kissing implants") are particularly vulnerable to 
them. Reliable and reproducible fracture classifications exist when it comes to 
2 prostheses, but they are less well established in the presence of one, or even 
two, non-prosthetic implants. Their treatment is difficult and must consider the 
possibility of fracture consolidation while ensuring or restoring the stability 
and role of the implants. Whether it is the main element of treatment or a 
complement to prosthesis revision, locked plating forms the basis of the 
treatment but it must be rigorous, considering that failures are mainly the 
result of technical errors. Other more invasive treatments (total femoral 
arthroplasty, cortical sleeves) are offered more rarely if consolidation appears 
compromised.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otsr.2021.103117
PMID: 34666198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Sci Rep. 2021 Oct 19;11(1):20699. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-00037-8.

Nondetrimental impact of two concomitant entomopathogenic fungi on life history 
parameters of a generalist predator, Coccinella septempunctata (Coleoptera: 
Coccinellidae).

Rizwan M(1), Atta B(2), Arshad M(3)(4), Khan RR(5), Dageri A(6), Rizwan M(2), 
Ullah MI(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Rice Research Institute, Kala Shah Kaku, Sheikhupura, Pakistan. 
ranarizwanjabbar@yahoo.com.
(2)Rice Research Institute, Kala Shah Kaku, Sheikhupura, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Entomology, University of Sargodha, Sargodha, 40100, Pakistan. 
makuaf@gmail.com.
(4)China-Pakistan Joint Research Centre for Citrus Disease and Insect Pest 
Management, University of Sargodha, Sargodha, 40100, Pakistan. makuaf@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Entomology, University of Agriculture, Faisalabad, Pakistan.
(6)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Necmettin Erbakan University, 
42090, Meram, Konya, Turkey.
(7)Department of Entomology, University of Sargodha, Sargodha, 40100, Pakistan.
(8)China-Pakistan Joint Research Centre for Citrus Disease and Insect Pest 
Management, University of Sargodha, Sargodha, 40100, Pakistan.

The non-persistent impact of biocontrol agents can be revealed for pest control 
when associated entomopathogenic fungi (EPFs) negatively affect the natural 
enemies. In this assay, impacts of Beauvaria bassiana (Balsamo) Vuillemin, and 
Metarhizium anisopliae (Metschnikoff) Sorokin were studied for their 
compatibility or side effects on life table parameters of an important 
generalist predator, Coccinella septempunctata L. The results indicated 
non-significant impacts of both EPFs on life table parameters of C. 
septempunctata. The development time (egg-adult) was not significantly different 
in control (69.79 days) and EPFs treated C. septempunctata (69.35-80.07 days). 
Both fungi did not induce any significant changes in the fecundity, adult 
pre-oviposition period (APOP), total preoviposition period (TPOP), and mean 
generation time (T) as compared to control treatment. Similarly, no difference 
in fecundity rate of C. septempunctata was observed after EPFs treatment 
(287.7-288.5) compared to control (290.0). The highest net reproductive rate 
(R0) occurred in control (87.05 offspring individual-1) and M. anisopliae (86.31 
offspring individual-1) as compared to B. bassiana treated beetles (76.97 
offspring individual-1). The age-specific fecundity curves indicated that the C. 
septempunctata had a similar fecundity rate in both EPFs treatments and control. 
This study demonstrates no significant side effects of B. bassiana and M. 
anispoliae on the performance and biology of C. septempunctata. Considering the 
compatibility of both EPFs with C. septempunctata, their combinations can be 
recommended in various integrated pest management programs.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-00037-8
PMCID: PMC8526579
PMID: 34667179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


334. Nature. 2021 Oct;598(7881):415. doi: 10.1038/d41586-021-02829-4.

Countries of the Indo-Gangetic Plain must unite against air pollution.

Khokhar MF, Anjum MS, Salam A, Sinha V, Naja M, Tanimoto H, Crawford JH, Mead 
MI.

DOI: 10.1038/d41586-021-02829-4
PMID: 34667288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Can Stud Popul. 2021;48(2-3):165-200. doi: 10.1007/s42650-021-00051-1. Epub
2021  Oct 15.

Heterogeneity in Excess Mortality and Its Impact on Loss of Life Expectancy due 
to COVID-19: Evidence from Mexico.

García-Guerrero VM(1), Beltrán-Sánchez H(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic, Urban and Environmental Studies, El Colegio de México 
A.C, Mexico City, Mexico.
(2)Department of Community Health Sciences, Fielding School of Public Health, 
Center for Population Research, University of California At Los Angeles (UCLA), 
Los Angeles, USA.

The new coronavirus (COVID-19) is having a major impact on mortality and 
survival in most countries of the world, with Mexico being one of the countries 
most heavily impacted by the pandemic. In this paper, we study the impact of 
COVID-19 deaths on period life expectancy at birth in Mexico by sex and state. 
We focus on the loss of life expectancy at different ages as a geographically 
comparable measure of the pandemic's impact on the population in 2020. Results 
show that males have been affected more than women since they have lost more 
years of life expectancy at birth due to COVID-19, and they have also 
experienced a high variation of life expectancy loss across states. The biggest 
life expectancy loss concentrates in the Northeastern, Central, and Southeastern 
(Yucatan peninsula) states. Considering the likely undercount associated with 
COVID-19 deaths, sensitivity analysis suggests that the new coronavirus is 
having a much larger impact on life expectancy in Mexico than the official 
government data appears to indicate. Continuos assessment of the pandemic will 
help state governments quantify the effect of current and new public health 
measures.

Publisher: La nouvelle maladie à coronavirus (COVID-19) a un impact majeur sur 
la mortalité et la survie dans la plupart des pays du monde, le Mexique étant 
parmi les pays les plus fortement touchés par la pandémie. Dans cet article, 
nous étudions l’impact des décès dus à la COVID-19 sur l’espérance de vie à la 
naissance comme mesure géographiquement comparable de l'impact de la pandémie 
sur la population en 2020. Les résultats montrent que les hommes ont été plus 
touchés que les femmes, ils ont perdu plus d'années d'espérance de vie à la 
naissance en raison de la COVID-19 et ont également connu une forte variation de 
la perte d'espérance de vie entre les États mexicains. La plus grande perte 
d'espérance de vie est concentrée dans les États du nord-est, du centre et du 
sud-est (péninsule du Yucatan). L'analyse de sensibilité tient compte du 
sous-dénombrement probable associé aux décès dus à la COVID-19 et suggère que la 
maladie a un impact beaucoup plus important sur l'espérance de vie au Mexique 
que les données officielles du gouvernement ne semblent l'indiquer. Une 
évaluation continue de la pandémie aidera les gouvernements des États à 
quantifier l'effet des mesures de santé publique actuelles et nouvelles à mesure 
que la pandémie se poursuit.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s42650-021-00051-1
PMCID: PMC8516578
PMID: 34667369

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare no 
competing interests.


336. Indian J Plast Surg. 2021 Sep 8;54(3):257-263. doi: 10.1055/s-0041-1734576. 
eCollection 2021 Sep.

Nuances of Arteriovenous Fistula Creation for Vascular Access in Hemodialysis.

Sahasrabudhe P(1)(2), Bindu A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, B.J. Govt. Medical College & Sassoon 
Hospitals, Pune, Maharashtra, India.
(2)Depatment of Plastic Surgery, Deenanath Hospital, Pune, Maharashtra, India.
(3)Depatment of Plastic Surgery, Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, Maharashtra, 
India.

Background With rising incidence and increased life expectancy of patients with 
chronic kidney disease (CKD) and end-stage renal disease (ESRD), the number of 
patients requiring hemodialysis has increased substantially. Vascular access is 
the lifeline for a patient on hemodialysis (HD), and an arteriovenous fistula 
(AVF) is the undisputed gold standard for HD access. An effective and 
long-lasting fistula serves to increase the life expectancy of ESRD patients and 
improves their quality of life. Learning Objectives This paper aims to give a 
comprehensive overview of AVF creation, including the various techniques, 
patient selection, troubleshooting with decision-making, and common 
complications. Authors share their experience from previous publications and 
over 2000 AVF surgeries. They have not only described a new modification of the 
technique of proximal fistula but have also established a direct correlation 
between bruit and thrill on operation table and success of fistula surgery. 
Conclusion A standardized, protocol-driven multidisciplinary approach with 
careful patient and site selection, guided by outcome predictors, is vital in 
AVF surgery. Knowledge about the potential complications of AVFs contributes to 
their timely detection and allows measures to be taken that might prevent 
deleterious consequences that range from loss of vascular access to serious 
morbidity and mortality.

Association of Plastic Surgeons of India. This is an open access article 
published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons 
Attribution-NonDerivative-NonCommercial-License, permitting copying and 
reproduction so long as the original work is given appropriate credit. Contents 
may not be used for commercial purposes, or adapted, remixed, transformed or 
built upon. (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).

DOI: 10.1055/s-0041-1734576
PMCID: PMC8515349
PMID: 34667508

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interests None declared. Author 
Contributions Both the authors were involved equally in the construction, 
writing, editing, and review process of the manuscript of CME article on nuances 
of arteriovenous fistula creation for vascular access for hemodialysis. 
Statement This study was performed, and manuscript was written conforming to the 
Declaration of Helsinki. Disclosure Statement No financial disclosures. No 
disclosures of any relationship of any author with a commercial company that has 
a direct financial interest in subject matter or materials discussed in article 
or with a company making a competing product.


337. Hematol Rep. 2021 Sep 24;13(3):9169. doi: 10.4081/hr.2021.9169. eCollection
2021  Sep 6.

Apixaban and eftrenonacog alfa treatment in a patient with moderate hemophilia B 
and cardiovascular disease.

Santoro RC(1), Falbo M(1), Ferraro A(2).

Author information:
(1)Hemostasis and Thrombosis Unit.
(2)Cardiology Unit, Azienda Ospedaliera "Pugliese Ciaccio", Catanzaro, Italy.

In developed countries, the life expectancy of patients with hemophilia (PwH) is 
now close to that of the unaffected male population. This means that these 
patients are at risk of developing age-related comorbidities, including 
cardiovascular disease. Managing cardiovascular disease in PwH patients can be 
particularly challenging, due to their high bleeding risk. To our knowledge, 
this is the first report of a male patient with moderate hemophilia B and 
hypertensive ischemic heart disease complicated by arrhythmia due to nonvalvular 
atrial fibrillation, who was treated with apixaban and left atrial appendage 
closure while receiving concomitant anti-hemorrhagic prophylaxis with 
eftrenonacog alfa.

©Copyright: the Author(s).

DOI: 10.4081/hr.2021.9169
PMCID: PMC8485731
PMID: 34667538


338. J Plant Res. 2022 Jan;135(1):3-14. doi: 10.1007/s10265-021-01349-6. Epub
2021  Oct 19.

Arabidopsis ASYMMETRIC LEAVES2 (AS2): roles in plant morphogenesis, cell 
division, and pathogenesis.

Machida Y(1), Suzuki T(2)(3), Sasabe M(4), Iwakawa H(5), Kojima S(5), Machida 
C(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biological Science, Graduate School of Science, Nagoya 
University, Nagoya, Aichi, 464-8602, Japan. yas@bio.nagoya-u.ac.jp.
(2)Division of Biological Science, Graduate School of Science, Nagoya 
University, Nagoya, Aichi, 464-8602, Japan.
(3)Central Research Institute, Ishihara Sangyo Kaisha, Ltd., 2-3-1 
Nishi-Shibukawa, Kusatsu, Shiga, 525-0025, Japan.
(4)Department of Biology, Faculty of Agriculture and Life Science, Hirosaki 
University, 3 Bunkyo-cho, Hirosaki, 036-8561, Japan.
(5)Graduate School of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Chubu University, Kasugai, 
Aichi, 487-8501, Japan.

The ASYMMETRIC LEAVES2 (AS2) gene in Arabidopsis thaliana is responsible for the 
development of flat, symmetric, and extended leaf laminae and their vein 
systems. AS2 protein is a member of the plant-specific AS2/LOB protein family, 
which includes 42 members comprising the conserved amino-terminal domain 
referred to as the AS2/LOB domain, and the variable carboxyl-terminal region. 
Among the members, AS2 has been most intensively investigated on both genetic 
and molecular levels. AS2 forms a complex with the myb protein AS1, and is 
involved in epigenetic repression of the abaxial genes ETTIN/AUXIN RESPONSE 
FACTOR3 (ETT/ARF3), ARF4, and class 1 KNOX homeobox genes. The repressed 
expression of these genes by AS2 is markedly enhanced by the cooperative action 
of various modifier genes, some of which encode nucleolar proteins. Further 
downstream, progression of the cell division cycle in the developing organs is 
stimulated; meristematic states are suppressed in determinate leaf primordia; 
and the extension of leaf primordia is induced. AS2 binds the specific sequence 
in exon 1 of ETT/ARF3 and maintains methylated CpGs in several exons of 
ETT/ARF3. AS2 forms bodies (designated as AS2 bodies) at nucleolar peripheries. 
AS2 bodies partially overlap chromocenters, including inactive 45S ribosomal DNA 
repeats, suggesting the presence of molecular and functional links among AS2, 
the 45S rDNAs, and the nucleolus to exert the repressive regulation of ETT/ARF3. 
The AS2/LOB domain is characterized by three subdomains, the zinc finger (ZF) 
motif, the internally conserved-glycine containing (ICG) region, and the 
leucine-zipper-like (LZL) region. Each of these subdomains is essential for the 
formation of AS2 bodies. ICG to LZL are required for nuclear localization, but 
ZF is not. LZL intrinsically has the potential to be exported to the cytoplasm. 
In addition to its nuclear function, it has been reported that AS2 plays a 
positive role in geminivirus infection: its protein BV1 stimulates the 
expression of AS2 and recruits AS2 to the cytoplasm, which enhances virus 
infectivity by suppression of cytoplasmic post transcriptional gene silencing.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-021-01349-6
PMCID: PMC8755679
PMID: 34668105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2022 Apr;218(4):615-622. doi: 10.2214/AJR.21.26786.
Epub  2021 Oct 20.

Cost-Effectiveness of Follow-Up Ultrasound for Incidental Thyroid Nodules on CT.

Hammer MM(1)(2), Kong CY(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Thoracic Division, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 75 
Francis St, Boston, MA 02115.
(2)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.
(3)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY.

Comment in
    AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2021 Nov 3;:

BACKGROUND. Thyroid nodules are common incidental findings on CT. Existing 
professional society recommendations, based primarily on expert opinion, advise 
follow-up ultrasound for nodules above size cutoffs in patients of all ages. 
OBJECTIVE. The purpose of this study was to use a simulation model to evaluate 
the cost-effectiveness of current recommendations and of other age- and 
size-based follow-up strategies for thyroid nodules incidentally detected on CT. 
METHODS. By using a simulation model with 1,000,000 adults with nodules 
measuring 40 mm or less that have no suspicious features, we evaluated size 
cutoffs from 5 to 25 mm in patients younger than an age maximum from 25 to 65 
years, as well as follow-up versus no follow-up for patients above the age 
maximum. For each strategy, patient survival was determined by disease-specific 
and baseline mortality rates and surgical mortality. Costs and quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) were tabulated. A probabilistic sensitivity analysis was 
performed with varying model parameters. RESULTS. All cost-effective strategies 
recommended no follow-up for patients above the age cutoffs (which varied from 
25 to 65 years). In the base-case simulation, 10 strategies were cost-effective 
at a willingness-to-pay threshold of $100,000/QALY. Of these, the strategy 
yielding the highest QALYs was follow-up for patients under 60 years old with 
nodules 10 mm or larger and no follow-up for patients 60 years old or older, 
with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $50,196/QALY (95% CI, 
$39,233-67,479). In the probabilistic sensitivity analysis, if the 10-year 
disease-specific survival of patients with untreated cancer was more than 94% of 
patients with treated cancer, then no follow-up for any nodules was optimal. 
CONCLUSION. Follow-up ultrasound for thyroid nodules incidentally detected on CT 
is likely not cost-effective in older patients. Follow-up for most thyroid 
nodules in younger patients may be cost-effective. CLINICAL IMPACT. Future 
societal recommendations may account for the limited benefit of obtaining 
follow-up for incidental thyroid nodules on CT in older patients.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.21.26786
PMID: 34668384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2022 Jan;70(1):200-207. doi: 10.1111/jgs.17493. Epub 2021
Oct  20.

Discontinuation of beta-blockers among nursing home residents at end of life.

Lee DS(1), Zullo AR(2), Lee Y(2), Daiello LA(2), Kim DH(3)(4), Kiel DP(3)(4), 
Berry SD(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital & Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Brown University School of Public Health, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(3)Hebrew SeniorLife, Hinda and Arthur Marcus Institute for Aging Research, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center & Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: Given limited life expectancy of nursing home (NH) residents, harms 
of continuing beta-blockers (BBs) may outweigh clinical benefits. Our objective 
was to describe beta-blocker discontinuation for NH residents during the last 
year of life, and identify characteristics associated with earlier 
discontinuation.
METHODS: This was a retrospective cohort study that included all long-stay 
residents in fee-for-service Medicare who died in 2016 and were prescribed oral 
BBs 1 year before death. Beta-blocker discontinuation was defined as a gap in 
medication on hand for ≥45 days per Medicare Part D claims, measured from the 
last date drug was on hand. Comorbidities were obtained from Chronic Condition 
Warehouse, and other characteristics from the Minimum Data Set. Kaplan-Meier 
curves were used to describe time to first discontinuation. Findings were 
stratified by cardiac diagnoses, perceived life expectancy of <6 months, or 
elevated mortality index.
RESULTS: Eighty-eight thousand two hundred and eighty-four residents were 
prescribed ≥1 daily BB 12 months before death. Mean age was 84.1 years and 69.2% 
were female. Of these, 60,573 residents (68.6%) remained on a BB in the last 
45 days of life, and 57,880 residents (65.6%) had ≥1 cardiac diagnosis. Only 
5239 residents (5.9%) had elevated mortality index, whereas 16,798 residents 
(19.0%) had perceived poor prognosis. In the last year of life, there was no 
difference in beta-blocker discontinuation pattern between residents with and 
without cardiac diagnoses. Residents with perceived poor prognosis and elevated 
mortality index discontinued BBs earlier. For example, mean time until 
discontinuation among residents with poor perceived prognosis was 245 versus 
279 days in residents without such prognosis (p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: BBs are commonly prescribed to NH residents in the final year of 
life. Overall, discontinuation occurs earlier in residents for whom clinicians 
perceive limited life expectancy, suggesting that improved prognostication may 
offer an important opportunity to reduce polypharmacy toward end of life.

© 2021 The American Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.17493
PMCID: PMC8742763
PMID: 34669190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to declare.


341. Health Rep. 2021 Oct 20;32(10):3-13. doi: 10.25318/82-003-x202101000001-eng.

Mortality among First Nations people, 2006 to 2016.

Park J(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Analysis Division, Statistics Canada, Ottawa, Ontario.

BACKGROUND: First Nations people were reported to have a shorter life expectancy 
and were more likely than their non-Indigenous counterparts to die prematurely 
from avoidable causes.
METHODS: Using the 2006 Canadian Census Health and Environment Cohort (CanCHEC), 
the number and rates of deaths for a 10-year follow-up period for on- and 
off-reserve First Nations people and the non-Indigenous population were 
calculated by sex, age and region.
RESULTS: According to the 2006 CanCHEC data, First Nations people showed higher 
age-standardized mortality rates (ASMRs) compared with the non-Indigenous 
population. On-reserve First Nations people showed higher ASMRs than off-reserve 
First Nations people. First Nations people's excess mortality, compared with 
their non-Indigenous counterparts, was caused by deaths from diabetes, heart 
diseases, chronic liver disease and cirrhosis, unintentional injuries, and 
intentional injuries (suicide and assault). The mortality differential between 
First Nations people and the non-Indigenous population was found to be more 
pronounced among younger age groups.
INTERPRETATION: First Nations people's excess mortality can be better understood 
by examining specific causes for specific population groups, based on age, sex, 
being on- or off-reserve, and region.

DOI: 10.25318/82-003-x202101000001-eng
PMID: 34669322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Oncology (Williston Park). 2021 Oct 19;35(9):620-627. doi: 
10.46883/ONC.2021.3510.0620.

Value of Geriatric Assessment in Patients With Genitourinary Carcinoma.

Zangl Q(1), Wirth J(2), Karl A(3), Stief C(4), Zwissler B(5), Von Dossow V(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroanesthesia, Christian Doppler Hospital, Paracelsus Medical 
University, Salzburg, Austria.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Klinikum Garmisch-Partenkirchen, 
Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany.
(3)Department of Urology, Krankenhaus Barmherzige Brüder München, Munich, 
Germany.
(4)Department of Urology, University Hospital of the 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, University Hospital of the 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany.
(6)Institute for Anesthesiology and Pain Therapy, Heart and Diabetes Center NRW, 
Ruhr University of Bochum, Bad Oeynhausen, Germany.

Objectives: This work aims to evaluatecomprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) 
tools to better guide patients with urogenital carcinomas perioperatively and, 
consequently, to intensify or reduce hospital resource use. Methods: After 
informed consent, 111patients were included, all aged more than 65 years, with 
oncological surgery (with proof of a malignancy), a Mini Mental State 
Examination (MMSE) score of at least 23 points, and a prospective life 
expectancy of more than 2 months. Patients were divided into 2 groups: prostate 
cancer (n = 88) and distal urinary tract cancer (n = 29). Further CGA tools were 
Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (iADL), Activities of Daily Living 
(ADL), and the Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI). The relationships between CGA 
and complications, hospital duration, death rate, and baseline characteristics 
were analyzed. Results: In comparison with the patients with prostate cancer, 
those with kidney/distal urinary tract cancer had higher CCI scores (median, 3 
vs 2; P <.001), MMSE scores (29 vs 28; P = .031), complication rates (55.2% vs 
22.0%; P = .001), and hospital duration (16 vs 10 days; P <.001), as well as 
more deaths in the group (8 vs 0). Comorbidities (6 vs 2; P <.001), Physical 
Status Classification System (ASA state [3 vs 2; P <.001]), and median age (74 
vs 71 years; P =.008) were all higher in the kidney/distal urinary tract group, 
and they had fewer problems with postoperative ADL items, which were 
significantly lower than those of the prostate group (P = .043). Intra- and 
intergroup comparisons of preoperative and 1-year ADL/iADL values did not differ 
significantly. Conclusion: These study results underscore the importance of CGA 
in patients with genitourinary carcinoma; most patients have high regenerative 
potential. Patients with kidney/distal urinary tract cancers are older, have 
more comorbidities, and have more postoperative impairments than patients with 
prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.46883/ONC.2021.3510.0620
PMID: 34669360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Epidemiology. 2022 Jan 1;33(1):75-83. doi: 10.1097/EDE.0000000000001418.

The Health and Economic Benefits of Tests That Predict Future Progression to 
Tuberculosis Disease.

Menzies NA(1), Shrestha S(2), Parriott A(3), Marks SM(4), Hill AN(4), Dowdy 
DW(2), Shete PB(5), Cohen T(6), Salomon JA(7).

Author information:
(1)From the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, MD.
(3)Philip R. Lee Institute for Health Policy Studies, University of California 
San Francisco, San Francisco, CA.
(4)Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Atlanta, GA.
(5)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of California 
San Francisco, San Francisco, CA.
(6)Department of Epidemiology of Microbial Diseases, Yale School of Public 
Health, New Haven, CT.
(7)Department of Medicine, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA.

BACKGROUND: Effective targeting of latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) 
treatment requires identifying those most likely to progress to tuberculosis 
(TB). We estimated the potential health and economic benefits of diagnostics 
with improved discrimination for LTBI that will progress to TB.
METHODS: A base case scenario represented current LTBI testing and treatment 
services in the United States in 2020, with diagnosis via. interferon-gamma 
release assay (IGRA). Alternative scenarios represented tests with higher 
positive predictive value (PPV) for future TB but similar price to IGRA, and 
scenarios that additionally assumed higher treatment initiation and completion. 
We predicted outcomes using multiple transmission-dynamic models calibrated to 
different geographic areas and estimated costs from a societal perspective.
RESULTS: In 2020, 2.1% (range across model results: 1.1%-3.4%) of individuals 
with LTBI were predicted to develop TB in their remaining lifetime. For IGRA, we 
estimated the PPV for future TB as 1.3% (0.6%-1.8%). Relative to IGRA, we 
estimated a test with 10% PPV would reduce treatment volume by 87% (82%-94%), 
reduce incremental costs by 30% (15%-52%), and increase quality-adjusted life 
years by 3% (2%-6%). Cost reductions and health improvements were substantially 
larger for scenarios in which higher PPV for future TB was associated with 
greater initiation and completion of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: We estimated that tests with better predictive performance would 
substantially reduce the number of individuals treated to prevent TB but would 
have a modest impact on incremental costs and health impact of TB prevention 
services, unless accompanied by greater treatment acceptance and completion.

Copyright © 2021 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/EDE.0000000000001418
PMCID: PMC8633045
PMID: 34669631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.


344. BMC Public Health. 2021 Oct 21;21(1):1906. doi: 10.1186/s12889-021-11690-z.

Impact of COVID-19 on life expectancy at birth in India: a decomposition 
analysis.

Yadav S(1), Yadav PK(2), Yadav N(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Development Studies, International Institute for Population 
Sciences (IIPS), Mumbai, 400088, India. suryakant11@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Development Studies, International Institute for Population 
Sciences (IIPS), Mumbai, 400088, India.
(3)Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University 
(JNU), New Delhi, 110067, India.

BACKGROUND: Quantifying excess deaths and their impact on life expectancy at 
birth (e0) provide a more comprehensive understanding of the burden of 
coronavirus disease of 2019 (COVID-19) on mortality. The study aims to 
comprehend the repercussions of the burden of COVID-19 disease on the life 
expectancy at birth and inequality in age at death in India.
METHODS: The mortality schedule of COVID-19 disease in the pandemic year 2020 
was considered one of the causes of death in the category of other infectious 
diseases in addition to other 21 causes of death in the non-pandemic year 2019 
in the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) data. The measures e0 and Gini coefficient 
at age zero (G0) and then sex differences in e0 and G0 over time were analysed 
by assessing the age-specific contributions based on the application of 
decomposition analyses in the entire period of 2010-2020.
RESULTS: The e0 for men and women decline from 69.5 and 72.0 years in 2019 to 
67.5 and 69.8 years, respectively, in 2020. The e0 shows a drop of approximately 
2.0 years in 2020 when compared to 2019. The sex differences in e0 and G0 are 
negatively skewed towards men. The trends in e0 and G0 value reveal that its 
value in 2020 is comparable to that in the early 2010s. The age group of 
35-79 years showed a remarkable negative contribution to Δe0 and ΔG0. By causes 
of death, the COVID-19 disease has contributed - 1.5 and - 9.5%, respectively, 
whereas cardiovascular diseases contributed the largest value of was 44.6 and 
45.9%, respectively, to sex differences in e0 and G0 in 2020. The outcomes 
reveal a significant impact of excess deaths caused by the COVID-19 disease on 
mortality patterns.
CONCLUSIONS: The COVID-19 pandemic has negative repercussions on e0 and G0 in 
the pandemic year 2020. It has severely affected the distribution of age at 
death in India, resulting in widening the sex differences in e0 and G0. The 
COVID-19 disease demonstrates its potential to cancel the gains of six to eight 
years in e0 and five years in G0 and has slowed the mortality transition in 
India.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-021-11690-z
PMCID: PMC8528662
PMID: 34670537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


345. BMC Health Serv Res. 2021 Oct 21;21(1):1130. doi:
10.1186/s12913-021-07126-4.

Telephone-delivered health behaviour change support for people with a mental 
health condition: the coaches' perspective.

Bradley T(1)(2), Hansen V(3), Wye P(4), Campbell E(5), Bartlem K(4)(6), Reid 
K(7), Bowman J(4)(6).

Author information:
(1)University of Newcastle, University Drive, Callaghan, NSW, 2308, Australia. 
Tegan.Bradley@uon.edu.au.
(2)Hunter Medical Research Institute, Lot 1, Kookaburra Cct, New Lambton 
Heights, NSW, 2305, Australia. Tegan.Bradley@uon.edu.au.
(3)Southern Cross University, Hogbin Dr, Coffs Harbour, NSW, 2450, Australia.
(4)University of Newcastle, University Drive, Callaghan, NSW, 2308, Australia.
(5)Hunter New England Population Health, Locked Bag 10, Wallsend, NSW, 2287, 
Australia.
(6)Hunter Medical Research Institute, Lot 1, Kookaburra Cct, New Lambton 
Heights, NSW, 2305, Australia.
(7)NSW Office of Preventive Health, Liverpool Hospital, Don Everett Building, 
Locked Bag 7103, Liverpool, NSW, BC1871, Australia.

BACKGROUND: People with a mental health condition experience a greater 
prevalence of chronic disease and reduced life expectancy compared to the 
general population. Modifiable health risk behaviours, such as physical 
inactivity and poor nutrition are major contributing factors. Population-level 
health coaching delivering behavioural change support via telephone for healthy 
eating, physical activity, and weight management is an opportunity utilised by 
this group to support improvement in healthy lifestyle behaviours. Health 
coaches offer a valuable perspective into the provision of services to this 
high-risk group. This study aims to qualitatively explore coaches' experiences 
in providing support to these participants, consider factors which may 
contribute to engagement and outcomes; and potentially inform future service 
improvement.
METHOD: A qualitative study design was employed involving semi-structured 
telephone interviews with six coaches employed in a telephone-based behaviour 
change support service in New South Wales, Australia, between April and July 
2019. Interview data was analysed using an inductive thematic analysis.
RESULTS: Coaches believed that the service was of benefit to people with a 
mental health condition, however making changes to health risk behaviours was 
potentially more difficult for this group of service users. Coaches indicated 
that in supporting this group there was a greater focus on building confidence 
and readiness to change. They noted that improvement in mental health as a 
result of physical health changes was an additional 'measure of success' of 
particular relevance. Coaches expressed a desire to receive more mental health 
training to better deliver coaching to participants with a mental health 
condition. Program variables such as limited call length were posed as possible 
barriers to care.
CONCLUSION: Further training and additional support for coaches, in additon to 
considering variations to aspects of service delivery may assist in improving 
engagement and outcomes for participants with mental health conditions. 
Examining mental health consumers' experiences when engaging with telephone 
coaching services would be an important area to address in further research.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-021-07126-4
PMCID: PMC8529807
PMID: 34670561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


346. Popul Health Metr. 2021 Oct 20;19(1):40. doi: 10.1186/s12963-021-00271-2.
