rate (ASIR) and age-standardized DALYs rate (ASDR) from Global Burden of Disease 
Study 2019 (GBD 2019) and calculated the estimated annual percentage changes 
(EAPCs) to assess the incidence rate and DALYs rate trends for anxiety 
disorders.
RESULTS: The incidence cases of anxiety disorders increased by 47.19%, from 
31.13 million in 1990 to 45.82 million in 2019, and DALYs increased by 53.70%, 
from 18.66 million in 1990 to 28.68 million in 2019. Over the past 29 years, the 
changes of ASIR and ASDR worldwide were stable (EAPC = 0.011 and -0.001, 
respectively). Women were more likely to experience anxiety disorders. 
Participants aged 10-14 had the highest incidence rate, followed by those aged 
35-44. Those aged 15-19 and 40-44 had the highest estimated DALYs rate. The ASIR 
and ASDR were estimated to be the highest in Iran and Portugal, and Portugal and 
Brazil, respectively. Both of ASIR and ASDR were high in high- sociodemographic 
index regions in 2019.
LIMITATIONS: Further exploration of related risk factors needs to be analyzed in 
the future studies.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with 1990, the absolute increase in incidence cases and 
DALYs of anxiety disorders in 2019 still remained high. Our findings contribute 
to the formulation of health policies for controlling and preventing anxiety 
disorders in different countries and regions.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2021.10.022
PMID: 34678404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. J Hazard Mater. 2022 Feb 15;424(Pt B):127430. doi: 
10.1016/j.jhazmat.2021.127430. Epub 2021 Oct 12.

Harnessing an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus to improve the adaptability of a 
facultative metallophytic poplar (Populus yunnanensis) to cadmium stress: 
Physiological and molecular responses.

Liu D(1), Zheng K(2), Wang Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Lao R(1), Qin Z(1), Li T(3), Zhao 
Z(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Bio-resources in 
Yunnan, Yunnan University, Kunming 650091, PR China; School of Life Sciences, 
Yunnan University, Kunming 650091, PR China.
(2)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Bio-resources in 
Yunnan, Yunnan University, Kunming 650091, PR China; Key Laboratory of 
Agricultural Biotechnology of Yunnan Province, Biotechnology and Germplasm 
Resources Research Institute, Yunnan Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Kunming 
650205, PR China.
(3)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Bio-resources in 
Yunnan, Yunnan University, Kunming 650091, PR China; School of Life Sciences, 
Yunnan University, Kunming 650091, PR China. Electronic address: 
litao@ynu.edu.cn.
(4)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Bio-resources in 
Yunnan, Yunnan University, Kunming 650091, PR China; School of Life Sciences, 
Yunnan University, Kunming 650091, PR China. Electronic address: 
zhaozhw@ynu.edu.cn.

Populus yunnanensis Dode, a facultative metallophytic poplar, exhibits 
afforestation potential in barren mine tailing areas. However, the interactions 
and functional roles of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus (AMF) in P. yunnanensis 
adaptability to heavy metal stress remain unclear. Physiological and molecular 
responses of P. yunnanensis plantlets to AMF (Funneliformis mosseae) under 
cadmium (Cd) stress (50 mg kg-1) were investigated. Results showed attenuation 
of Cd phytotoxicity effects on cell organelles upon AMF inoculation, which also 
reduced the Cd concentration in the poplar leaves, stems, and roots. Under Cd 
stress, AMF-blocking of metal transporter (e.g., Ca2+ channel) activity 
occurred, decreasing root cell Cd influx by reducing H+ efflux. Bioaugmentation 
of rhizosphere sediments by AMF to stabilize metals with a decreasing 
DTPA-extractable Cd also occurred. The AMF inoculation promoted Cd conversion 
into inactive, less phytotoxic forms, and helped to maintain ion homeostasis and 
relieve nutritional ion (e.g., Ca, Mg) disorders caused by excessive Cd. Leaf 
enzyme and non-enzyme antioxidant systems were triggered. Root and leaf 
physiological response patterns differed. The AMF regulated the poplar 
functional genes, and nine metal-responsive gene clusters were identified. We 
suggest that AMF is a functional component of P. yunnanensis phenotype 
extension, contributing to strong adaptability to unfavorable mine tailings 
conditions.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2021.127430
PMID: 34678563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Optom Vis Sci. 2021 Oct 1;98(10):1183-1195. doi:
10.1097/OPX.0000000000001783.

The Integrity of Retinal Morphology in Non-immunocompromised People Living with 
HIV on Antiretroviral Therapy.

Munsamy AJ, Moodley AA(1), Brautaset RL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Durban, South Africa.
(2)Division of Eye and Vision, Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

SIGNIFICANCE: Non-immunocompromised people living with HIV (NIPLHIV) share a 
similar immunocompetence to non-HIV (HIV) people with an elevated cluster of 
differentiation 4 (CD4) count in the era of antiretroviral therapy (ART). This 
has reduced the incidence of HIV retinopathy, thus raising the question of the 
integrity of the retinal morphology in NIPLHIV with longer life expectancy.
PURPOSE: The study assessed the retinal thickness and volume of NIPLHIV without 
retinitis on ART and attempted to find associations with linear parameters of 
cerebral atrophy.
METHODS: The study was conducted at a public hospital in South Africa. All 
people living with HIV were on ART with CD4 counts above 350 cells/mm3 and viral 
loads less than 10,000 copies/mL. The Heidelberg Spectralis ocular coherence 
tomographer assessed the retinal thickness and volume for comparison between 30 
NIPLHIV and 30 HIV-negative participants. A subset of the HIV group obtained a 
computed tomography scan to determine the bicaudate ratio and the sylvian 
fissure ratio to assess cerebral atrophy. Independent t tests were performed to 
identify differences in retinal thickness and volume. Multivariate linear 
regressions measured associations between retinal thickness and volume with 
cerebral atrophy.
RESULTS: The NIPLHIV group had a thicker mean global temporal subfields at Early 
Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) 3 mm (P = .047) and ETDRS 6 mm (P = 
.03). The mean global temporal subfield volume at ETDRS 3 mm was also increased 
in the NIPLHIV group (P = .02). Nasal macula retinal nerve fiber layer thickness 
and the inferior inner nuclear layer macula volume were directly related to the 
bicaudate ratio, whereas the volumes at the outer retinal layer subfields of the 
macula were inversely related to sylvian fissure ratio in NIPLHIV.
CONCLUSIONS: Macula thickness and volumetric differences do exist in NIPLHIV. 
Practitioners should keep NIPLHIV under retinal morphometric surveillance 
because they live longer. Associations of cerebral atrophy with retinal 
morphology may be used to monitor cerebral atrophy in NIPLIV on ART.

Copyright © 2021 American Academy of Optometry.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0000000000001783
PMID: 34678838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosure: The authors 
listed have no financial conflict of interests.


368. Biomedicines. 2021 Sep 27;9(10):1334. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines9101334.

Chemical Modification of Cysteine with 3-Arylpropriolonitrile Improves the In 
Vivo Stability of Albumin-Conjugated Urate Oxidase Therapeutic Protein.

Yang B(1), Kwon I(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Gwangju Institute of Science and 
Technology (GIST), Gwangju 61005, Korea.

3-arylpropiolonitriles (APN) are promising alternatives to maleimide for 
chemo-selective thiol conjugation, because the reaction product has a remarkably 
hydrolytic stability compared with that of thiol-maleimide reactions in vitro. 
However, whether cysteine modification with APN enhances stability in vivo 
compared to thiol-maleimide reactions remains unclear, probably due to the too 
short in vivo serum half-life of a protein to observe significant cleavage of 
thiol-maleimide/-APN reaction products. The conjugation of human serum albumin 
(HSA) to a therapeutic protein reportedly prolongs the in vivo serum half-life. 
To evaluate the in vivo stability of the thiol-APN reaction product, we prepared 
HSA-conjugated Arthrobacter globiformis urate oxidase (AgUox), a therapeutic 
protein for gout treatment. Site-specific HSA conjugation to AgUox was achieved 
by combining site-specific incorporation of tetrazine containing an amino acid 
(frTet) into AgUox and a crosslinker containing trans-cyclooctene and either 
thiol-maleimide (AgUox-MAL-HSA) or -APN chemistry (AgUox-APN-HSA). Substantial 
cleavage of the thioester of AgUox-MAL-HSA was observed in vitro, whereas no 
cleavage of the thiol-APN product of AgUox-APN-HSA was observed. Furthermore, 
the in vivo serum half-life of AgUox-APN-HSA in the late phase was significantly 
longer than that of AgUox-MAL-HSA. Overall, these results demonstrate that the 
thiol-APN chemistry enhanced the in vivo stability of the HSA-conjugated 
therapeutic protein.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines9101334
PMCID: PMC8533278
PMID: 34680451

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


369. Insects. 2021 Oct 2;12(10):899. doi: 10.3390/insects12100899.

Identification of Pheromone Components of Plagionotus detritus (Coleoptera: 
Cerambycidae), and Attraction of Conspecifics, Competitors, and Natural Enemies 
to the Pheromone Blend.

Imrei Z(1), Domingue MJ(2), Lohonyai Z(1)(3), Moreira JA(4), Bálintné Csonka 
É(1), Fail J(3), Csóka G(5), Hanks LM(6), Tóth M(1), Millar JG(7).

Author information:
(1)Plant Protection Institute, Agricultural Research Centre, ELKH, H-1022 
Budapest, Hungary.
(2)Department of Entomology, Kansas State University, 123 W. Waters Hall, 
Manhattan, KS 66506, USA.
(3)Department of Entomology, Institute of Plant Protection, Hungarian University 
of Agriculture and Life Sciences, H-1118 Budapest, Hungary.
(4)Brainfarma Industria Química e Farmacêutica S.A, Barueri 06400-000, Brazil.
(5)Department of Forest Protection, Forest Research Institute, University of 
Sopron, H-3232 Mátrafüred, Hungary.
(6)Department of Entomology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, 
IL 61801, USA.
(7)Department of Entomology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.

(1) Background: The principal aim of our work was to identify pheromone 
components for Plagionotus detritus (L.) (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae), which could 
be exploited for developing a pheromone-based monitoring system for the 
complementary purposes of plant protection in areas where it might become a 
pest, and natural conservation in areas where it is rare or endangered. (2) 
Methods: Collection and analysis of headspace volatiles were carried out with 
field-collected beetles. Bioactive volatile compounds identified 
[(R)-3-hydroxyhexan-2-one and (S)-2-hydroxyoctan-3-one] from extracts of males 
were purchased [(±)-3-hydroxyhexan-2-one], and synthesized 
[(S)-2-hydroxyoctan-3-one] and field-tested. Electroantennogram assays showed 
that antennae of the predatory beetle Clerus mutillarius F. (Coleoptera: 
Cleridae) also responded to the synthetic compounds. (3) Results: A 
two-component aggregation-sex pheromone consisting of (R)-3-hydroxyhexan-2-one 
and (S)-2-hydroxyoctan-3-one was identified for P. detritus. 
(±)-3-hydroxyhexan-2-one and (S)-2-hydroxyoctan-3-one attracted adults of P. 
detritus in field bioassays. Adults of the clerid C. mutillarius also were 
attracted to both compounds. The cerambycid Xylotrechus antilope Schönh was 
significantly attracted to traps baited with (S)-2-hydroxyoctan-3-one alone or 
the blend containing this compound. (4) Conclusions: Our data confirmed that 
3-hydroxyhexan-2-one and 2-hydroxyoctan-3-one are male-produced pheromone 
components for P. detritus. These results show that both intraspecific and 
interspecific communication may play key roles in longhorn beetle life history 
and ecology, with closely and more distantly related species eavesdropping on 
each other's signals.

DOI: 10.3390/insects12100899
PMCID: PMC8537793
PMID: 34680668

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interests. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision 
to publish the results.


370. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Oct 9;18(20):10565. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph182010565.

The Effect of the Menstrual Cycle and Oral Contraceptive Cycle on Muscle 
Performance and Perceptual Measures.

Thompson BM(1)(2), Drover KB(2), Stellmaker RJ(2), Sculley DV(3), Janse de Jonge 
XAK(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Health and Human Sciences, Macquarie University, North 
Ryde, NSW 2109, Australia.
(2)School of Environmental and Life Sciences, The University of Newcastle, 
Ourimbah, NSW 2258, Australia.
(3)School of Biomedical Sciences and Pharmacy, The University of Newcastle, 
Ourimbah, NSW 2258, Australia.

Most reproductive-aged women are exposed to fluctuating female steroid hormones 
due to the menstrual cycle or oral contraceptive use. This study investigated 
the potential effect of the menstrual cycle and combined monophasic oral 
contraceptive cycle on various aspects of muscle performance. Thirty active 
females (12 with a natural menstrual cycle, 10 taking a high-androgenicity oral 
contraceptive and 8 taking a low-androgenicity oral contraceptive), aged 18 to 
30 years, were tested three times throughout one menstrual or oral contraceptive 
cycle. Counter-movement jumps, bilateral hop jumps, handgrip strength, isometric 
knee extensor strength and isokinetic knee flexion and extension were assessed. 
Perceptual ratings of fatigue, muscle soreness, pain and mood were recorded. 
Most variables showed no significant changes over the menstrual or oral 
contraceptive cycle. However, for the menstrual cycle group, isokinetic knee 
flexion at 240° s-1, and time of flight in bilateral hopping and counter 
movement jumps showed better results during the mid-luteal phase compared with 
the late follicular phase. For the high-androgenicity oral contraceptive group, 
isokinetic knee flexion at 240° s-1 was significantly higher in the late hormone 
phase compared with the early hormone phase. For the low-androgenicity oral 
contraceptive group, time of flight for the counter-movement jumps was lower in 
the late hormone phase compared with the early hormone phase. The findings 
indicate that faster and explosive aspects of muscle performance may be 
influenced by endogenous and exogenous female hormones.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph182010565
PMCID: PMC8536049
PMID: 34682310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


371. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Oct 11;18(20):10651. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph182010651.

Palliative Care in Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease: A Meta Synthesis.

Imamah NF(1)(2), Lin HR(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, College of Nursing, National Taipei University of Nursing 
and Health Sciences, Taipei 112303, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Nursing, Faculty of Nursing, Universitas Muhammadiyah 
Kalimantan Timur, Samarinda 75124, Indonesia.

End-stage renal disease is the last stage of chronic kidney disease and is 
associated with a decreased quality of life and life expectancy. This study 
aimed to explore palliative care with end-stage renal disease. Qualitative 
meta-synthesis was used as the study design. The search was performed for 
qualitative studies published until June 2021 and uses reciprocal translation 
and synthesis of in vivo and imported concepts. Five themes were included: 
Struggling to face the disease, experiencing deterioration, overcoming the 
challenges of dialysis, leading to a positive outlook, and preparing for the end 
of life. In facing chronic disease with life-limiting potential, patients 
experienced some negative feelings and deterioration in their quality of life. 
Adaptation to the disease then leads patients to a better outlook through 
increased spirituality and social status. Furthermore, by accepting the present 
condition, they started to prepare for the future. Increasing awareness of 
mortality leads them to discuss advance care (ACP) planning with healthcare 
professionals and families.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph182010651
PMCID: PMC8535479
PMID: 34682395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


372. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Oct 12;18(20):10659. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph182010659.

Barriers and Motivators to Physical Activity Prior to Starting a Community-Based 
Walking Program.

Richards EA(1), Woodcox S(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA.
(2)Cooperative Extension, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA.

Despite the clear benefits of an active lifestyle, most American adults fail to 
meet physical activity (PA) guidelines. Because of its safety and ease, walking 
is a promising population-level strategy to increase PA. There is a need to 
further understand why adults do and do not participate in walking. This study 
provides a broader understanding of barriers and motivators of walking prior to 
starting a walking program. Four years of baseline data from a community-based 
walking program were analyzed (n = 1491). Descriptive statistics summarized 
participant characteristics, barriers, reinforcements, and current PA. 
Chi-square tests were used to assess differences in the barrier and 
reinforcement responses between participant's PA level and age categories. 
Open-ended responses were analyzed using thematic analysis. On average, 
participants were white (96%), middle-aged (52 ± 13 years old) females (92%). 
Poor weather and time were frequently reported barriers to walking. Open-ended 
responses (n = 141) identified additional barriers of lack of motivation (n = 
37), joint issues (n = 29), fatigue (n = 24), safety or lack of environmental 
supports (n = 17), family or work demands (n = 15), and lacking a walking 
partner (n = 9). Good weather, health, and weight loss were frequently reported 
motivators. Additional motivators (n = 282) identified included stress relief 
and mental health (n = 82), social time (n = 70), dog care (n = 41), other 
health benefits (n = 38), connect with nature (n = 19), enjoyment (14), 
occupation (n = 11), and environmental and community supports (n = 6). Findings 
highlight the importance of understanding participant barriers and motivators 
for PA before starting a program. Future research should examine how reported 
barriers and motivators are related to program completion and adherence. 
Tailoring community-based programs to address specific barriers and motivators 
may enable more participants to effectively change and maintain PA.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph182010659
PMCID: PMC8535237
PMID: 34682405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


373. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Oct 13;18(20):10725. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph182010725.

Government Health Expenditure and Public Health Outcomes: A Comparative Study 
among EU Developing Countries.

Onofrei M(1), Vatamanu AF(1), Vintilă G(2), Cigu E(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Economics and Business Administration, Alexandru Ioan Cuza 
University, 700505 Iasi, Romania.
(2)Department of Finance, The Bucharest University of Economic Studies, 010374 
Bucharest, Romania.

The aim of this paper was to empirically analyze the relationship between public 
health expenditure and health outcomes among EU developing countries. Using 
regression analysis and factor analysis, we documented that public health 
expenditure and health outcomes are in a long-run equilibrium relationship and 
the status of health expenditure can improve life expectancy and reduce infant 
mortality. Secondarily, we studied how the status of good governance, health 
care system performance, and socioeconomic vulnerabilities affect the public 
health's outcomes in the selected countries. We found that the effectiveness of 
health and the way to reduce infant mortality or to improve life quality is 
directed conditioned by good governance status. Moreover, the consolidation of 
health care system performance directly improves the quality of life among EU 
developing countries, which indicates that public policymakers should intervene 
and provide political and financial support through policy mixes.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph182010725
PMCID: PMC8535729
PMID: 34682472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


374. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Oct 18;18(20):10945. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph182010945.

Factors Influencing Retirement Decisions among Blue-Collar Workers in a Global 
Manufacturing Company-Implications for Age Management from A System Perspective.

Jaldestad E(1), Eriksson A(1), Blom P(2), Östlund B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering and Health Systems, KTH Royal Institute 
of Technology, SE-141 57 Huddinge, Sweden.
(2)Scania CV AB, Health & Work Environment, 8000 AP Zwolle, The Netherlands.

The maintenance of older workers and determining the appropriate age for 
retirement are growing issues related to the fact that fewer people, still 
active in working life, have to provide for more non-working people due to 
increased life expectancy. As a result, retirement age has started to rise in 
many countries, and employers need to find ways to maintain an older and healthy 
work force, not least to avoid the loss of important experience. The aim of the 
current study was to increase the knowledge of factors influencing the 
retirement decisions among blue-collar workers in different national settings. A 
survey and semi-structured interviews were conducted with a sample of 100 
blue-collar workers in Sweden, the Netherlands, and France, aged 55 years and 
older, within a global manufacturing company. Based on the results, implications 
for companies' age management strategies were discussed from a system 
perspective. Factors contributing to both retirement and to a prolonged work 
life were found on individual, organisational, and societal levels. This 
indicates the importance of a system perspective when planning for age 
management interventions.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph182010945
PMCID: PMC8536071
PMID: 34682689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


375. J Clin Med. 2021 Oct 11;10(20):4658. doi: 10.3390/jcm10204658.

Cataract Surgery in Very Old Patients: A Case-Control Study.

Nussinovitch H(1), Tsumi E(2), Tuuminen R(3)(4), Malyugin B(5)(6), Lior Y(7), 
Naidorf Rosenblatt H(8), Boyko M(7), Achiron A(9), Knyazer B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shaarei Zedek Medical Center, Jerusalem 9103102, 
Israel.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Soroka University Medical Center, Faculty of 
Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beersheba 8410501, Israel.
(3)Helsinki Retina Research Group, Faculty of Medicine, University of Helsinki, 
00100 Helsinki, Finland.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Kymenlaakso Central Hospital, 48210 Kotka, 
Finland.
(5)S. Fyodorov Eye Microsurgery Federal State Institution, 127486 Moscow, 
Russia.
(6)Department of Eye Diseases, A.I. Yevdokimov Moscow State University of 
Medicine and Dentistry, 127473 Moscow, Russia.
(7)Division of Anesthesiology and Critical Care, Soroka University Medical 
Center and the Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, 
Beersheba 8410501, Israel.
(8)Ophthalmology Department, Kaplan Medical Center, Rehovot 7610001, Israel.
(9)Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv 
University, Tel-Aviv 6997801, Israel.

Advancements in surgical techniques and increased life expectancy have made 
cataract surgery more common among very old patients. However, surgical outcomes 
seem impaired in patients older than 90 years, especially with ocular 
comorbidities. A retrospective case-control study of 53 eyes of 53 very old 
patients (mean 92.6 ± 3.0) and 140 eyes of 140 matched patients (mean 75.2 ± 
7.6) was undertaken. Groups were matched in terms of gender and systemic and 
ocular comorbidities. In very old patients, higher phacoemulsification energy 
(cumulative dissipated energy [CDE], 25.0 ± 22.4 vs. 16.1 ± 10.7, p = 0.01) and 
rate of intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS, 9.4% vs. 1.4%, p = 0.02) were 
observed compared to controls. Uncorrected (UCVA) and best-corrected distance 
visual acuity (BCVA) gains were significantly poorer among the very old patients 
than among the control at postoperative day 30 (0.20 ± 0.70 vs. 0.56 ± 0.61 
logMAR, p < 0.001 and 0.27 ± 0.64 vs. 0.55 ± 0.62 logMAR, p = 0.006, 
respectively). Even after including CDE and IFIS as covariates, age remained an 
independent factor for poor visual gain at 30 days (p < 0.001). Cataract surgery 
in very old patients may demand more experienced surgeons due to higher nuclear 
density and the rates of IFIS. Expectations in visual acuity gains should be 
aligned with the patient's age.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm10204658
PMCID: PMC8537740
PMID: 34682778

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


376. J Pers Med. 2021 Oct 15;11(10):1026. doi: 10.3390/jpm11101026.

Molecular and Genetic Immune Biomarkers of Primary and Immune-Therapy Induced 
Hypophysitis: From Laboratories to the Clinical Practice.

Chiloiro S(1)(2), Russo F(3), Tartaglione T(4)(5), Capoluongo ED(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational Medicine and Surgery, Università Cattolica del 
Sacro Cuore, 00168 Roma, Italy.
(2)UOC Endocrinology and Diabetology, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario A. 
Gemelli IRCCS, 00168 Roma, Italy.
(3)Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnology, Federico II 
University-CEINGE, 80126 Naples, Italy.
(4)Department of Radiological and Haematological Sciences, Università Cattolica 
del Sacro Cuore, 00168 Roma, Italy.
(5)Department of Radiology and Diagnostic Imaging, Istituto Dermopatico 
dell'Immacolata, IDI-IRCCS, 00167 Roma, Italy.
(6)Azienda Ospedaliera per L'Emergenza, Cannizzaro, 95126 Catania, Italy.

Hypophysitis is a rare and potentially life-threatening disease, characterized 
by an elevated risk of complications, such as the occurrence of acute central 
hypoadrenalism, persistent hypopituitarism, or the extension of the inflammatory 
process to the neighboring neurological structures. In recent years, a large 
number of cases has been described. The diagnosis of hypophysitis is complex 
because it is based on clinical and radiological criteria. Due to this, the 
integration of molecular and genetic biomarkers can help physicians in the 
diagnosis of hypophysitis and play a role in predicting disease outcome. In this 
paper, we review current knowledge about molecular and genetic biomarkers of 
hypophysitis with the aim of suggesting a possible integration of these 
biomarkers in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm11101026
PMCID: PMC8537090
PMID: 34683167

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no direct conflict of 
interest that that may be affected by the research reported in the enclosed 
paper.


377. Microorganisms. 2021 Oct 6;9(10):2103. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms9102103.

Estimating the Rates of Acquisition and loss of Resistance of Enterobacteriaceae 
to Antimicrobial Drugs in Pre-Weaned Dairy Calves.

Cella E(1), Okello E(1)(2), Rossitto PV(1), Cenci-Goga BT(3), Grispoldi L(3), 
Williams DR(1), Sheedy DB(1), Pereira R(2), Karle BM(4), Lehenbauer TW(1)(2), 
Aly SS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Veterinary Medicine Teaching and Research Center, School of Veterinary 
Medicine, University of California Davis, Tulare, CA 93274, USA.
(2)Department of Population Health & Reproduction, School of Veterinary 
Medicine, University of California Davis, Davis, CA 95616, USA.
(3)Laboratorio di Ispezione degli Alimenti di Origine Animale, Dipartimento di 
Medicina Veterinaria, Università degli Studi di Perugia, 06126 Perugia, Italy.
(4)Cooperative Extension, Division of Agriculture and Natural Resources, 
University of California, Orland, CA 95963, USA.

The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of the antimicrobial 
drugs (AMD) on the shedding of resistant Enterobacteriaceae in feces of 
pre-weaned dairy calves. The AMD considered were ceftiofur, administered 
parenterally, and neomycin sulfate added in milk replacer and fed to calves 
during the first 20 days of life. Fifty-five calves, aged one to three days, 
were enrolled and followed to 64 days. Fecal samples were collected three 
times/week and treatments recorded daily. Enterobacteriaceae were quantified for 
a subset of 33 calves using spiral plating on plain, ceftiofur supplemented, and 
neomycin supplemented MacConkey agar. Negative binomial models were used to 
predict the association between treatment with AMD and the gain and loss of 
Enterobacteriaceae resistance over time. Acquisition of resistance by the 
Enterobacteriaceae occurred during treatment and peaked between days three to 
four post-treatment before decreasing to below treatment levels at days seven to 
eight post-treatment. Acquisition of neomycin resistance was observed on the 
first sampling day (day four from the start of feeding medicated milk replacer) 
to day eight, followed by cyclical peaks until day 29, when the 
Enterobacteriaceae counts decreased below pre-treatment. Enterobacteriaceae 
resistance against both AMD increased after AMD administration and didn't return 
to pre-therapeutic status until seven or more days after therapy had been 
discontinued. The study findings provide valuable insights into the dynamics of 
Enterobacteriaceae under routine AMD use in calves.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms9102103
PMCID: PMC8539406
PMID: 34683424

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


378. Materials (Basel). 2021 Oct 10;14(20):5948. doi: 10.3390/ma14205948.

Magnetic Nanoparticles Used in Oncology.

Manescu Paltanea V(1)(2), Paltanea G(2), Antoniac I(1)(3), Vasilescu M(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Material Science and Engineering, University Politehnica of 
Bucharest, 313 Splaiul Independentei, District 6, RO-060042 Bucharest, Romania.
(2)Faculty of Electrical Engineering, University Politehnica of Bucharest, 313 
Splaiul Independentei, District 6, RO-060042 Bucharest, Romania.
(3)Academy of Romania Scientist, 54 Splaiul Independentei, RO-050094 Bucharest, 
Romania.

Recently, magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs) have more and more often been used in 
experimental studies on cancer treatments, which have become one of the biggest 
challenges in medical research. The main goal of this research is to treat and 
to cure advanced or metastatic cancer with minimal side effects through 
nanotechnology. Drug delivery approaches take into account the fact that MNPs 
can be bonded to chemotherapeutical drugs, nucleic acids, synthetized antibodies 
or radionuclide substances. MNPs can be guided, and different treatment 
therapies can be applied, under the influence of an external magnetic field. 
This paper reviews the main MNPs' synthesis methods, functionalization with 
different materials and highlight the applications in cancer therapy. In this 
review, we describe cancer cell monitorization based on different types of 
magnetic nanoparticles, chemotherapy, immunotherapy, magnetic hyperthermia, gene 
therapy and ferroptosis. Examples of applied treatments on murine models or 
humans are analyzed, and glioblastoma cancer therapy is detailed in the review. 
MNPs have an important contribution to diagnostics, investigation, and therapy 
in the so called theranostics domain. The main conclusion of this paper is that 
MNPs are very useful in different cancer therapies, with limited side effects, 
and they can increase the life expectancy of patients with cancer drug 
resistance.

DOI: 10.3390/ma14205948
PMCID: PMC8539633
PMID: 34683540

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


379. Pharmaceutics. 2021 Oct 2;13(10):1604. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics13101604.

Kinase Inhibition in Relapsed/Refractory Leukemia and Lymphoma Settings: Recent 
Prospects into Clinical Investigations.

Machado CB(1), de Pinho Pessoa FMC(1), da Silva EL(1), da Costa Pantoja L(2)(3), 
Ribeiro RM(4), de Moraes Filho MO(1), de Moraes MEA(1), Montenegro RC(1), 
Burbano RMR(3), Khayat AS(3), Moreira-Nunes CA(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacogenetics Laboratory, Drug Research and Development Center (NPDM), 
Department of Medicine, Federal University of Ceará, Fortaleza 60430-275, 
Brazil.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Octávio Lobo Children's Hospital, Belém 60430-275, 
Brazil.
(3)Oncology Research Center, Department of Biological Sciences, Federal 
University of Pará, Belém 66073-005, Brazil.
(4)Department of Hematology, Fortaleza General Hospital (HGF), Fortaleza 
60150-160, Brazil.

Cancer is still a major barrier to life expectancy increase worldwide, and 
hematologic neoplasms represent a relevant percentage of cancer incidence rates. 
Tumor dependence of continuous proliferative signals mediated through protein 
kinases overexpression instigated increased strategies of kinase inhibition in 
the oncologic practice over the last couple decades, and in this review, we 
focused our discussion on relevant clinical trials of the past five years that 
investigated kinase inhibitor (KI) usage in patients afflicted with 
relapsed/refractory (R/R) hematologic malignancies as well as in the 
pharmacological characteristics of available KIs and the dissertation about 
traditional chemotherapy treatment approaches and its hindrances. A trend 
towards investigations on KI usage for the treatment of chronic lymphoid 
leukemia and acute myeloid leukemia in R/R settings was observed, and it likely 
reflects the existence of already established treatment protocols for chronic 
myeloid leukemia and acute lymphoid leukemia patient cohorts. Overall, regimens 
of KI treatment are clinically manageable, and results are especially effective 
when allied with tumor genetic profiles, giving rise to encouraging future 
prospects of an era where chemotherapy-free treatment regimens are a reality for 
many oncologic patients.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics13101604
PMCID: PMC8540545
PMID: 34683897

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
data interpretation; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


380. Medicina (Kaunas). 2021 Oct 17;57(10):1119. doi: 10.3390/medicina57101119.

Fragility Fractures: Risk Factors and Management in the Elderly.

Migliorini F(1), Giorgino R(2), Hildebrand F(1), Spiezia F(3), Peretti GM(4)(5), 
Alessandri-Bonetti M(6), Eschweiler J(1), Maffulli N(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Trauma and Reconstructive Surgery, RWTH Aachen 
University, 52074 Aachen, Germany.
(2)Residency Program in Orthopedics and Traumatology, University of Milan, 20122 
Milan, Italy.
(3)Department of Orthopaedic and Trauma Surgery, Ospedale San Carlo Potenza, Via 
Potito Petrone, 85100 Potenza, Italy.
(4)Department of Biomedical Sciences for Health, University of Milan, 20133 
Milan, Italy.
(5)IRCCS Orthopedic Institute Galeazzi, 20161 Milan, Italy.
(6)Plastic, Reconstructive and Aesthetic Surgery, University of Milan, 20122 
Milan, Italy.
(7)Department of Medicine, Surgery and Dentistry, University of Salerno, 84081 
Baronissi, Italy.
(8)School of Pharmacy and Bioengineering, Keele University Faculty of Medicine, 
Thornburrow Drive, Stoke-on-Trent ST4 7QB, UK.
(9)Centre for Sports and Exercise Medicine, Barts and the London School of 
Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London, Mile End Hospital, 
London E1 4DG, UK.

Given the progressive ageing of Western populations, the fragility fractures 
market has a growing socioeconomic impact. Fragility fractures are common in the 
elderly, negatively impacting their quality of life, limiting autonomy, 
increasing disability, and decreasing life expectancy. Different causes 
contribute to the development of a fractures in frail individuals. Among all, 
targeting fragile patients before the development of a fracture may represent 
the greatest challenge, and current diagnostic tools suffer from limitations. 
This study summarizes the current evidence on the management of fragility 
fractures, discussing risk factors, prevention, diagnosis, and actual 
limitations of the clinical therapeutic options, putting forward new ideas for 
further scientific investigation.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina57101119
PMCID: PMC8538459
PMID: 34684156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


381. Pathogens. 2021 Oct 15;10(10):1332. doi: 10.3390/pathogens10101332.

HIV and Aging: Overcoming Challenges in Existing HIV Guidelines to Provide 
Patient-Centered Care for Older People with HIV.

Sangarlangkarn A(1), Yamada Y(2), Ko FC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA 19122, USA.
(2)Brookdale Department of Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, Manhattan, NY 10029, USA.

With advances in antiretroviral therapy and subsequent increase in life 
expectancy, People with HIV (PWH) now experience multiple geriatric syndromes in 
the setting of advanced aging and increased multimorbidity. HIV clinicians bear 
the responsibility of delivering geriatric care to this vulnerable population, 
despite limited geriatric medicine training and limited support from HIV service 
networks that were not traditionally designed to care for an aging population. 
Although HIV clinicians reported formal guidelines specific to older PWH to be 
among the most helpful interventions, current HIV guidelines present multiple 
issues in their applicability to the care of older PWH, including multifactorial 
nature of conditions in older adults, difficulty measuring patient-centered 
outcomes, lack of representation of older PWH in clinical trials, limited 
guidelines addressing geriatric syndromes, and the use of chronological age as 
criteria for inclusion despite advanced aging in PWH. Understanding that updated 
guidelines addressing above challenges may take many years to develop, we offer 
strategies on the application of current guidelines, including using baseline 
attributes, time to benefit, and the Geriatrics 5M model to aid in shared 
decision making and improve outcomes among older PWH.

DOI: 10.3390/pathogens10101332
PMCID: PMC8540433
PMID: 34684281

Conflict of interest statement: All authors have no conflict of interest to 
report.


382. Nutrients. 2021 Oct 13;13(10):3583. doi: 10.3390/nu13103583.

Type 2 Diabetes-Related Health Economic Impact Associated with Increased Whole 
Grains Consumption among Adults in Finland.

Martikainen J(1), Jalkanen K(1), Heiskanen J(1), Lavikainen P(1), Peltonen M(2), 
Laatikainen T(2)(3)(4), Lindström J(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Eastern Finland, 70211 Kuopio, Finland.
(2)Department of Public Health and Welfare, Finnish Institute for Health and 
Welfare, 00271 Helsinki, Finland.
(3)Institute of Public Health and Clinical Nutrition, University of Eastern 
Finland, 70211 Kuopio, Finland.
(4)Joint Municipal Authority for North Karelia Health and Social Services (Siun 
Sote), 80210 Joensuu, Finland.

The prevalence of type 2 diabetes (T2D) is increasing rapidly worldwide. A 
healthy diet supporting the control of energy intake and body weight has major 
importance in the prevention of T2D. For example, a high intake of whole grain 
foods (WGF) has been shown to be inversely associated with risk for T2D. The 
objective of the study was to estimate the expected health economic impacts of 
increased WGF consumption to decrease the incidence of T2D in the Finnish adult 
population. A health economic model utilizing data from multiple national 
databases and published scientific literature was constructed to estimate these 
population-level health economic consequences. Among the adult Finnish 
population, increased WGF consumption could reduce T2D-related costs between 
286€ and 989€ million during the next 10-year time horizon depending on the 
applied scenario (i.e., a 10%-unit increase in a proportion of daily WGF users, 
an increased number (i.e., two or more) of WGF servings a day, or alternatively 
a combination of these scenarios). Over the next 20-30 years, a population-wide 
increase in WGF consumption could lead to much higher benefits. Furthermore, 
depending on the applied scenario, between 1323 and 154,094 quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) could be gained at the population level due to decreased 
T2D-related morbidity and mortality during the next 10 to 30 years. The results 
indicate that even when the current level of daily WGF consumption is already at 
a relatively high-level in a global context, increased WGF consumption could 
lead to important health gains and savings in the Finnish adult population.

DOI: 10.3390/nu13103583
PMCID: PMC8541656
PMID: 34684582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.M. is a founding partner of ESiOR Oy and a 
board member of Siltana Oy. These companies were not involved in carrying out 
this research. Other authors declare no competing interests. The funder of this 
study had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


383. Nutrients. 2021 Oct 16;13(10):3624. doi: 10.3390/nu13103624.

Standardized Hydrangea serrata (Thunb.) Ser. Extract Ameliorates Obesity in 
db/db Mice.

Han HS(1)(2), Chung KS(1), Shin YK(3), Lee SH(3), Lee KT(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biochemistry, College of Pharmacy, Kyung Hee 
University, Seoul 02447, Korea.
(2)Department of Life and Nanopharmaceutical Sciences, Graduate School, Kyung 
Hee University, Seoul 02447, Korea.
(3)Department of New Material Development, COSMAXBIO, Seongnam 13486, Korea.

We previously reported the potential anti-obesity effects of the water extract 
of Hydrangea serrata (Thunb.) Ser. leaves (WHS) in high-fat diet-induced obese 
mice. As an extension of our previous study, we investigated the anti-adipogenic 
and anti-obesity effects of WHS and its underlying molecular mechanisms in 
3T3-L1 preadipocytes and genetically obese db/db mice. WHS attenuated the gene 
expression of adipogenic transcription factors, CCAAT/enhancer binding protein 
(C/EBP)α, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)γ, and sterol 
regulatory element binding protein (SREBP)-1. Moreover, WHS inhibited the 
mitotic clonal expansion of preadipocytes by inducing G1 cell cycle arrest. Oral 
administration of WHS alleviated body weight gain and body fat accumulation in 
vivo. In addition, adipocyte hypertrophy and liver steatosis were ameliorated by 
WHS treatment. WHS reduced C/EBPα, PPARγ, and SREBP-1 expression and activated 
AMPKα phosphorylation in both white adipose tissue (WAT) and liver tissue. WHS 
also mildly upregulated the expression of thermogenic proteins, including 
uncoupling protein-1, PPARs, PPARγ coactivator-1α, and sirtuin-1, in brown 
adipose tissue (BAT). Furthermore, WHS altered the gut microbiota composition to 
resemble that of wild-type mice. Taken together, our findings suggest that WHS 
could alleviate adiposity by inhibiting adipogenesis in WAT and the liver and 
modulating the gut microbiota.

DOI: 10.3390/nu13103624
PMCID: PMC8538090
PMID: 34684625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


384. Nanomaterials (Basel). 2021 Sep 28;11(10):2543. doi: 10.3390/nano11102543.

Visible-Light Active Sulfur-Doped Titania Nanoparticles Immobilized on a Silica 
Matrix: Synthesis, Characterization and Photocatalytic Degradation of 
Pollutants.

Kalampaliki T(1), Makri SP(1), Papadaki E(1), Grigoropoulos A(1), Zoikis 
Karathanasis A(1), Deligkiozi I(1).

Author information:
(1)Creative Nano PC, 4 Leventi Street, Peristeri, 12132 Athens, Greece.

The photocatalytic oxidation (PCO) of pollutants using TiO2-based materials can 
significantly improve indoor air quality (IAQ), which in turn, has a significant 
impact on human health and life expectancy. TiO2-based nanoparticles (NPs) are 
widely used as part of building materials to function as photocatalysts in PCO. 
In this work, a series of sulfur-doped TiO2 NPs immobilized on a silica matrix 
were synthesized by combining a sol-gel process with ball milling. The samples 
were structurally characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), UV-Vis diffuse 
reflectance spectroscopy (DRS), Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) 
and N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. Furthermore, the morphological 
characteristics were determined by dynamic light scattering (DLS), scanning 
electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The 
photocatalytic activity of the as prepared S-doped TiO2/SiO2 NPs in the 
degradation of liquid and air pollutants under visible-light irradiation was 
investigated. Our results show that sulfur is an effective dopant for activating 
TiO2/SiO2 photocatalysts under visible-light irradiation. Silica constitutes a 
"safe-by-design" approach and inhibits the aggregation of NPs during synthesis. 
The most efficient photocatalyst afforded 79% removal of methyl orange (5 h), 
26% removal of acetaldehyde (1 h) and 12% oxidation of NO (1 h).

DOI: 10.3390/nano11102543
PMCID: PMC8537489
PMID: 34684984

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


385. Life (Basel). 2021 Oct 4;11(10):1045. doi: 10.3390/life11101045.

COVID-19 in Slovenia, from a Success Story to Disaster: What Lessons Can Be 
Learned?

Ružić Gorenjec N(1), Kejžar N(1), Manevski D(1), Pohar Perme M(1), Vratanar 
B(1), Blagus R(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Institute for Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, 
University of Ljubljana, Vrazov trg 2, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(2)Faculty of Sports, University of Ljubljana, Gortanova 22, 1000 Ljubljana, 
Slovenia.
(3)Faculty of Mathematics, Natural Sciences and Information Technologies, 
University of Primorska, Glagoljaška 8, 6000 Koper, Slovenia.

During the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in spring 2020, Slovenia was 
among the least affected countries, but the situation became drastically worse 
during the second wave in autumn 2020 with high numbers of deaths per number of 
inhabitants, ranking Slovenia among the most affected countries. This was true 
even though strict non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) to control the 
progression of the epidemic were being enforced. Using a semi-parametric 
Bayesian model developed for the purpose of this study, we explore if and how 
the changes in mobility, their timing and the activation of contact tracing can 
explain the differences in the epidemic progression of the two waves. To fit the 
model, we use data on daily numbers of deaths, patients in hospitals, intensive 
care units, etc., and allow transmission intensity to be affected by contact 
tracing and mobility (data obtained from Google Mobility Reports). Our results 
imply that though there is some heterogeneity not explained by mobility levels 
and contact tracing, implementing interventions at a similar stage as in the 
first wave would keep the death toll and the health system burden low in the 
second wave as well. On the other hand, sticking to the same timeline of 
interventions as observed in the second wave and focusing on enforcing a higher 
decrease in mobility would not be as beneficial. According to our model, the 
'dance' strategy, i.e., first allowing the numbers to rise and then implementing 
strict interventions to make them drop again, has been played at too-late stages 
of the epidemic. In contrast, a 15-20% reduction of mobility compared to 
pre-COVID level, if started at the beginning and maintained for the entire 
duration of the second wave and coupled with contact tracing, could suffice to 
control the epidemic. A very important factor in this result is the presence of 
contact tracing; without it, the reduction in mobility needs to be substantially 
larger. The flexibility of our proposed model allows similar analyses to be 
conducted for other regions even with slightly different data sources for the 
progression of the epidemic; the extension to more than two waves is 
straightforward. The model could help policymakers worldwide to make better 
decisions in terms of the timing and severity of the adopted NPIs.

DOI: 10.3390/life11101045
PMCID: PMC8541564
PMID: 34685416

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


386. Life (Basel). 2021 Oct 11;11(10):1072. doi: 10.3390/life11101072.

Current Therapeutic Approach to Acute Myocardial Infarction in Patients with 
Congenital Hemophilia.

Badescu MC(1)(2), Ciocoiu M(3), Rezus E(4)(5), Badulescu OV(3)(6), Tanase 
DM(1)(2), Ouatu A(1)(2), Dima N(1)(2), Ganceanu-Rusu AR(1)(2), Popescu D(1), 
Seritean Isac PN(1), Genes TM(7)(8), Rezus C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, "Grigore T. Popa" University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, 16 University Street, 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(2)III Internal Medicine Clinic, "St. Spiridon" County Emergency Clinical 
Hospital, 1 Independence Boulevard, 700111 Iasi, Romania.
(3)Department of Pathophysiology, "Grigore T. Popa" University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, 16 University Street, 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(4)Department of Rheumatology and Physiotherapy, "Grigore T. Popa" University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, 16 University Street, 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(5)I Rheumatology Clinic, Clinical Rehabilitation Hospital, 14 Pantelimon Halipa 
Street, 700661 Iasi, Romania.
(6)Hematology Clinic, "St. Spiridon" County Emergency Clinical Hospital, 1 
Independence Boulevard, 700111 Iasi, Romania.
(7)Department of Neurology, "Grigore T. Popa" University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, 16 University Street, 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(8)Neurological Rehabilitation Clinic, Clinical Rehabilitation Hospital, 14 
Pantelimon Halipa Street, 700661 Iasi, Romania.

Advances in the treatment of hemophilia have made the life expectancy of 
hemophiliacs similar to that of the general population. Physicians have begun to 
face age-related diseases not previously encountered in individuals with 
hemophilia. Treatment of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is particularly 
challenging because the therapeutic strategies influence both the patient's 
thrombotic and hemorrhagic risk. As progress has been made in the treatment of 
AMI over the last decade, we performed an in-depth analysis of the available 
literature, highlighting the latest advances in the therapy of AMI in 
hemophiliacs. It is generally accepted that after the optimal substitution 
therapy has been provided, patients with hemophilia should be treated in the 
same way as those in the general population. New-generation stents that allow 
short dual antiplatelet therapy and potent P2Y12 receptor inhibitors have begun 
to be successfully used. At a time when specific recommendations and relevant 
data are scarce, our study provides up-to-date information to physicians 
involved in the treatment of AMI in hemophiliacs.

DOI: 10.3390/life11101072
PMCID: PMC8537181
PMID: 34685443

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


387. Life (Basel). 2021 Oct 12;11(10):1076. doi: 10.3390/life11101076.

Multiscale Enhanced Sampling Using Machine Learning.

Moritsugu K(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Medical Life Science, Yokohama City University, Yokohama 
230-0045, Japan.

Multiscale enhanced sampling (MSES) allows for an enhanced sampling of all-atom 
protein structures by coupling with the accelerated dynamics of the associated 
coarse-grained (CG) model. In this paper, we propose an MSES extension to 
