enrolled patients with deep partial-thickness hand burns and treated them with 
ED using bromelain. After a specified period, we assessed the patients' hand 
function, using the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) 
questionnaire and the Michigan Hand Outcomes Questionnaire (MHOQ) to assess 
their disabilities and activities of daily life, respectively. We assessed the 
hand joint range of motion using a goniometer and assessed scar quality with the 
Vancouver Scar Scale (VSS). We analyzed 72 patients with 90 burned hands at 3 
months and, at the final assessment, 69 patients with 86 burned hands. Fire was 
the most common cause of the burns. Bromelain allowed for early debridement 
(73.6% during the first 24 h). At the 3-month evaluation, the mean DASH and MHOQ 
scores were 2.35 and 97.9%, respectively, with a high inverse correlation 
between the 2 types of scores (Spearman's rho, -0.78; p < .001). The mean wrist 
flexion and extension were 85.7 and 80°, respectively, the mean 
metacarpophalangeal flexion was 88.3°, the proximal interphalangeal (PIP) 
flexion was 112.9°, and the thumb opposition was 77°. The mean VSS score was 
2.87. At the final evaluation, with a minimum follow-up of 391 days, the mean 
DASH and MHOQ scores were 0.18 and 99.71%, respectively. ED with bromelain in 
deep partial-thickness hand burns resulted in normal values at 3 months and at 
over 1 year of follow-up, with complete restoration of function and quality of 
life and good scar results.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjps.2021.09.074
PMID: 34848129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Dr 
Corrales-Benítez has no conflicts of interest to declare. Dr González-Peinado 
has no conflicts of interest to declare. Dr González-Miranda has been a speaker 
for Mediwound, Spain. Dr Martinez-Mendez has been a speaker for Mediwound, 
Spain.


914. Obes Res Clin Pract. 2022 Jan-Feb;16(1):1-9. doi:
10.1016/j.orcp.2021.11.004.  Epub 2021 Nov 27.

Clinical outcomes of bariatric surgery - Updated evidence.

Hua Y(1), Lou YX(1), Li C(2), Sun JY(1), Sun W(3), Kong XQ(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing 210000, China.
(2)Department of General Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University, Nanjing 210000, China.
(3)Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing 210000, China. Electronic address: weisun7919@njmu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing 210000, China. Electronic address: kongxq@njmu.edu.cn.

Obesity has grown to become a major health problem over the past few decades. 
Obesity-related comorbidities, such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension, 
obstructive sleep apnea, and dyslipidemia, are inextricably linked with 
increased adverse clinical consequences and mortality. Compared with other 
strategies for obesity, bariatric surgery is efficient in weight loss and has 
been proved to exert positive effects on obesity-related risk factors. This 
broad improvement in risk factors has resulted in substantial remission or 
reductions of comorbidities and better performance on clinical outcomes, 
including cardiovascular diseases, cancer, and mortality. With the development 
of surgical procedures, the safety of bariatric surgery has been validated and 
the rate of peri-operative death is low all over the world. Nonetheless, 
surgeons ought to be careful about potential complications, such as nutrition 
deficiencies, psychological disorders, or new digestive tract tumors after 
surgery. For patients with obesity, bariatric surgery might be a precious and 
crucial tool to bring additional benefits including comorbidities protection and 
life span extension. All patients with obesity should be engaged in a union 
consultation group to select a suitable treatment.

Copyright © 2021 Asia Oceania Association for the Study of Obesity. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.orcp.2021.11.004
PMID: 34848153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Cureus. 2021 Oct 27;13(10):e19074. doi: 10.7759/cureus.19074. eCollection
2021  Oct.

Long-Term Outcomes of Elderly Patients Managed Without Early Cholecystectomy 
After Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography and Sphincterotomy for 
Choledocholithiasis.

Edwards K(1), Johnson G(1), Bednarz J(1), Hardy K(1), McKay A(1), Vergis A(1).

Author information:
(1)Surgery, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, CAN.

Background Prophylactic cholecystectomy following endoscopic retrograde 
cholangiopancreatography with sphincterotomy (ERCP-S) remains the gold standard 
management of choledocholithiasis. Some clinicians propose ERCP-S alone as the 
definitive management in the elderly, given perioperative complication risks. 
This retrospective cohort study aimed to assess the long-term efficacy and 
safety of non-operative management of choledocholithiasis in adults aged ≥70. 
Methodology A total of 252 patients aged ≥70 underwent ERCP from 2004 to 2014 at 
a single institution. The rates of cholecystectomy, ERCP, complications, and 
mortality were gathered. Data were linked to a provincial health database to 
capture follow-up visits to alternate hospitals. Predictors of operation, 
recurrence, and mortality were analyzed using multivariable regression. Results 
Following ERCP, of the 252 patients, 33 (13.1%) underwent prophylactic 
cholecystectomy within three months, while 219 (86.9%) were initially managed 
conservatively. Of the 219 patients, 147 (67.1%) experienced no further 
choledocholithiasis after conservative management, while 23 (10.5%) patients 
underwent cholecystectomy. The mean follow-up was 2.9 years. Delayed operative 
patients were younger (mean age: 77.56 vs. 82.90; p < 0.001) and had lower 
Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI) (1.04 vs. 1.84; p = 0.030). When adjusted for 
age, CCI score, and sex, cholecystectomy was associated with increased survival, 
with an odds ratio of 0.48 (95% confidence interval = 0.26-0.90; p = 0.021). 
Perioperative complications occurred in 7/56 (12.5%) patients. Conclusions 
Recurrent choledocholithiasis is common in elderly patients. Despite recurrent 
symptoms, these patients are unlikely to undergo cholecystectomy. Surgeons 
operate on patients with greater life expectancy and fewer comorbidities with 
high success despite advanced patient age. Future prospective studies should 
examine objective criteria for prophylactic cholecystectomy in this population, 
given purported safety and benefits.

Copyright © 2021, Edwards et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.19074
PMCID: PMC8620330
PMID: 34849308

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


916. Netw Model Anal Health Inform Bioinform. 2021;10(1):61. doi: 
10.1007/s13721-021-00347-x. Epub 2021 Nov 25.

In-silico design of a multi-epitope for developing sero-diagnosis detection of 
SARS-CoV-2 using spike glycoprotein and nucleocapsid antigens.

Javadi Mamaghani A(1), Arab-Mazar Z(2), Heidarzadeh S(3), Ranjbar MM(4), 
Molazadeh S(5), Rashidi S(6), Niazpour F(7), Naghi Vishteh M(1), Bashiri H(8), 
Bozorgomid A(8), Behniafar H(9), Ashrafi M(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Parasitology and Mycology, School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Medical Parasitology and Mycology, School of Public Health, 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Virology, Zanjan University of Medical 
Sciences, Zanjan, Iran.
(4)Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, Agricultural Research, Education 
and Extension Organization (AREEO), Karaj, Iran.
(5)Department of Pathobiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Science and 
Research Branch, Olom Tahghighat Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Parasitology and Mycology, School of Medicine, Shiraz 
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(7)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Tabriz, Tabriz, Iran.
(8)Infectious Diseases Research Center, Health Institute, Kermanshah University 
of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(9)Department of Medical Parasitology, Sarab Faculty of Medical Sciences, Sarab, 
Iran.
(10)Faculty of Medicine, Islamic Azad University, Qom, Iran.

COVID-19 is a pandemic disease caused by novel corona virus, SARS-CoV-2, 
initially originated from China. In response to this serious life-threatening 
disease, designing and developing more accurate and sensitive tests are crucial. 
The aim of this study is designing a multi-epitope of spike and nucleocapsid 
antigens of COVID-19 virus by bioinformatics methods. The sequences of 
nucleotides obtained from the NCBI Nucleotide Database. Transmembrane structures 
of proteins were predicted by TMHMM Server and the prediction of signal peptide 
of proteins was performed by Signal P Server. B-cell epitopes' prediction was 
performed by the online prediction server of IEDB server. Beta turn structure of 
linear epitopes was also performed using the IEDB server. Conformational epitope 
prediction was performed using the CBTOPE and eventually, eight antigenic 
epitopes with high physicochemical properties were selected, and then, all eight 
epitopes were blasted using the NCBI website. The analyses revealed that 
α-helices, extended strands, β-turns, and random coils were 28.59%, 23.25%, 
3.38%, and 44.78% for S protein, 21.24%, 16.71%, 6.92%, and 55.13% for N 
Protein, respectively. The S and N protein three-dimensional structure was 
predicted using the prediction I-TASSER server. In the current study, 
bioinformatics tools were used to design a multi-epitope peptide based on the 
type of antigen and its physiochemical properties and SVM method (Machine 
Learning) to design multi-epitopes that have a high avidity against SARS-CoV-2 
antibodies to detect infections by COVID-19.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Austria, part 
of Springer Nature 2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s13721-021-00347-x
PMCID: PMC8614630
PMID: 34849326

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestAll authors declared there 
is no conflict of interest.


917. Eur J Trauma Emerg Surg. 2022 Aug;48(4):2897-2904. doi: 
10.1007/s00068-021-01839-1. Epub 2021 Dec 1.

Mortality and functional outcomes of fragility fractures of the pelvis by 
fracture type with conservative treatment: a retrospective, multicenter TRON 
study.

Omichi T(1), Takegami Y(2), Tokutake K(3), Saito Y(1), Ito O(4), Ando T(5), 
Imagama S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Nagoya University Graduate School of 
Medicine, 65 Tsurumai-cho, Showa-ku, Nagoya, 466-8550, Japan.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Nagoya University Graduate School of 
Medicine, 65 Tsurumai-cho, Showa-ku, Nagoya, 466-8550, Japan. 
takegami@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Hand Surgery, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Nagoya, Japan.
(4)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Nishichita General Hospital, Tokai, Japan.
(5)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Nagoya Daini Red Cross Hospital, Nagoya, 
Japan.

Comment in
    Eur J Trauma Emerg Surg. 2023 Jun;49(3):1603.

PURPOSE: Fragility fractures of the pelvis (FFP) are becoming a commonly 
encountered disease in aging societies. We aimed to (1) clarify the overall 
survival rate of FFP, (2) compare survival rates by Rommens and Hofmann 
classification FFP type, (3) investigate the complications during 
hospitalization, and (4) investigate walking ability before and after injury 
depending on the type of fracture in patients with FFP treated conservatively.
METHODS: This retrospective, multicenter study included 867 patients with FFP 
treated conservatively between 2014 and 2018 and excluded patients with 
insufficient follow-up for two years, lost data, and operative cases. This is a 
retrospective multicenter study. We established the database, which is named as 
TRON. We evaluated survival rate by fracture type using the log-rank test. We 
compared walking ability as defined by a new mobility score and the modified 
Majeed Pelvic Score among fracture types.
RESULTS: We reviewed 552 cases (98 males and 454 females) with conservative 
treatment. The overall survival rates of patients with FFP treated 
conservatively were 0.90 at 1 year and 0.83 at 2 years. Although the survival 
rate was the lowest in FFP Type III, there was no significant difference in 
survival rates between fracture types (P = 0.143). The rates of complications 
during hospitalization were high for both Type III and Type IV fractures. 
Walking ability post-injury was worse in the patients with Type III fracture.
CONCLUSIONS: The survival rate of patients treated by conservative treatment was 
relatively good. Type III in the Rommens and Hofmann classification was related 
to lower life expectancy and loss of walking ability.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/s00068-021-01839-1
PMID: 34850256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Mol Ecol. 2022 Dec;31(23):6008-6017. doi: 10.1111/mec.16296. Epub 2021 Dec
7.

Telomere dynamics in the first year of life, but not later in life, predict 
lifespan in a wild bird.

Sheldon EL(1), Eastwood JR(1), Teunissen N(1), Roast MJ(1), Aranzamendi NH(1), 
Fan M(1), Louise Hall M(2)(3)(4), Kingma SA(2), Verhulst S(5), Peters A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Monash University, Clayton, Vic, Australia.
(2)Max Planck Institute for Ornithology, Vogelwarte Radolfzell, Radolfzell, 
Germany.
(3)Bush Heritage Australia, Melbourne, Vic, Australia.
(4)School of Biological Sciences, University of Western Australia, Crawley, WA, 
Australia.
(5)Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences, University of Groningen, 
Groningen, the Netherlands.

Telomeres are protective, nucleoprotein structures at the end of chromosomes 
that have been associated with lifespan across taxa. However, the extent to 
which these associations can be attributed to absolute length vs. the rate of 
telomere shortening prior to sampling remains unresolved. In a longitudinal 
study, we examined the relationship between lifespan, telomere length and the 
rate of telomere shortening in wild, purple-crowned fairy-wrens (Malurus 
coronatus coronatus). To this end, we measured telomere length using 
quantitative polymerase chain reaction in the blood of 59 individuals sampled as 
nestlings and 4-14 months thereafter, and in 141 known-age individuals sampled 
on average three times across adulthood. We applied within-subject centring 
analyses to simultaneously test for associations between lifespan and average 
telomere length and telomere shortening. We reveal that the rate of telomere 
shortening and to a lesser extent telomere length in the first year of life 
independently predicted lifespan, with individuals with faster shortening rates 
and/or shorter telomeres living less long. In contrast, in adulthood neither 
telomere shortening nor telomere length predicted lifespan, despite a 
considerably larger data set. Our results suggest that telomere length measured 
very early in life (during development) and longitudinal assessments of telomere 
shortening during the first year of life constitute more useful biomarkers of 
total life expectancy than either telomere length measured after development, or 
telomere shortening later in adulthood.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mec.16296
PMID: 34850488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Arch Esp Urol. 2021 Dec;74(10):941-952.

[Renal transplant recipient evaluation.].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Parra López ML(1), Lozano-Blasco JM(1), Martínez-Rodríguez J(1), León-Dueñas 
E(1), Medina-López RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Gestión Clínica de Urología y Nefrología. Unidad de Trasplante 
Renal y Cirugía Reconstructiva. Instituto de Biomedicina de Sevilla, IBIS/ 
Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocío/CSIC/ Universidad de Sevilla. Sevilla. 
España.

Urological evaluation is essential to guarantee the success of the kidney 
transplant. Urologists working within a multidisciplinary team have a crucial 
role to detect and manage certain recipient urological conditions that could 
jeopardize the function and survival of the graft.The critical aspects that 
Urologists should consider in thepre-transplant evaluation would be:- Is renal 
transplantation surgical technique feasible with assumable risks based on the 
recipient's baseline characteristics? age, life expectancy, performance 
status,physical examination...- Is bladder function adequate to properly ensure 
the urine storage and voiding?- Is there a potentially treatable urinary flow 
obstruction?- Are there urological pathologies in the recipient that could lead 
to post-transplant complications that compromise graft survival: functional, 
infectious, oncological comorbidities…?- Based on the patient's cardiovascular 
risk factors, arteriosclerosis in the aorto-iliac territory colud put at risk 
thearterial anastomosis? In this chapter, we will try to explain how the 
pre-transplant urological evaluation should be guided according to the specific 
recipient characteristics. We will also explain which pre-transplant surgeries 
are required to avoid some risky that may compromise the recipient and graft 
survival after renal transplantation, as well as those should be postponed after 
transplantation.

Publisher: La evaluación urológica en el estudio pre-trasplante es una pieza 
clave para garantizar eléxito del mismo. El papel del urólogo dentro de un 
equipo multidisciplinar que lleva a cabo esta evaluación es fundamental para 
detectar y manejar ciertas patologías urológicas del receptor que podrían poner 
en riesgo la función y supervivencia del injerto. Los puntos clave que el 
urólogo debe tratar en la consulta pretrasplante serían:- ¿La técnica quirúrgica 
del trasplante renal es viable con riesgos asumibles en base a las 
características basales del receptor? Edad biológica, esperanza de vida ,estado 
basal, exploración física…- ¿La función vesical es adecuada para asegurar un 
correcto almacenaje de la orina y una adecuada excreción de la misma?- ¿Existe 
una obstrucción al flujo urinario potencialmente tratable?- ¿Existen en el 
receptor patologías urológicas que puedan conllevar complicaciones en el 
post-trasplante que comprometan la función y supervivencia del 
injerto?:funcionales, infecciosas, oncológicas…- ¿En base a los factores de 
riesgo cardiovascular del paciente, podría existir una arteriosclerosis en el 
territorioaorto-iliaco que impida una anastomosis arterial congarantías? En este 
capítulo, trataremos de exponer cómo debemos orientar la consulta pre-trasplante 
desde el punto de vista urológico, comenzando por el estudio básico hasta el 
estudio más específico en base a características concretas del receptor. Además, 
expondremos cuáles son las cirugías pre-trasplante requeridas para eliminar 
condiciones de riesgo presentes en el potencial receptor que puedan comprometer 
la supervivencia del mismo y del injerto tras el trasplante renal así como, 
aquellos procedimientos programados indicados tras el trasplante.

PMID: 34851309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Demography. 2022 Feb 1;59(1):187-206. doi: 10.1215/00703370-9637380.

The Cross-sectional Average Inequality in Lifespan (CAL†): A Lifespan Variation 
Measure That Reflects the Mortality Histories of Cohorts.

Nepomuceno MR(1), Cui Q(2), van Raalte A(1), Aburto JM(3)(4), Canudas-Romo V(5).

Author information:
(1)Lifespan Inequalities Group, Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, 
Rostock, Germany.
(2)Centre d'Estudis Demogràfics, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(3)Leverhulme Centre for Demographic Science and Department of Sociology, 
University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(4)Interdisciplinary Center on Population Dynamics, University of Southern 
Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(5)School of Demography, Australian National University, Canberra, Australia.

Lifespan variation is a key metric of mortality that describes both individual 
uncertainty about the length of life and heterogeneity in population health. We 
propose a novel and timely lifespan variation measure, which we call the 
cross-sectional average inequality in lifespan, or CAL†. This new index provides 
an alternative perspective on the analysis of lifespan inequality by combining 
the mortality histories of all cohorts present in a cross-sectional approach. We 
demonstrate how differences in the CAL† measure can be decomposed between 
populations by age and cohort to explore the compression or expansion of 
mortality in a cohort perspective. We apply these new methods using data from 10 
low-mortality countries or regions from 1879 to 2013. CAL† reveals greater 
uncertainty in the timing of death than the period life table-based indices of 
variation indicate. Also, country rankings of lifespan inequality vary 
considerably between period and cross-sectional measures. These differences 
raise intriguing questions as to which temporal dimension is the most relevant 
to individuals when considering the uncertainty in the timing of death in 
planning their life courses.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1215/00703370-9637380
PMID: 34851396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. PLoS One. 2021 Dec 1;16(12):e0260639. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0260639. 
eCollection 2021.

Hematological malignancies in the Northwest Ethiopia.

Enawgaw B(1), Aynalem M(1), Melku M(1), Asrie F(1), Abebe M(1), Yalew A(1), 
Bekele T(2), Mesfin N(3), Ayalew M(4), Shiferaw E(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Gondar, College of Medicine and Health Science, School of 
Biomedical and Laboratory Sciences, Department of Hematology and 
Immunohematology, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(2)University of Gondar, College of Medicine and Health Science, School of 
Medicine, Department of Pathology, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(3)University of Gondar, College of Medicine and Health Science, School of 
Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(4)University of Gondar, College of Medicine and Health Science, School of 
Medicine, Unit of Pediatric Hematology Oncology, Gondar, Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: The effect of malignant diseases is increasing globally, 
particularly in developing countries as shown by recent cancer statistics from 
the world health organization reports. It is anticipated that with an increase 
in life expectancy consequent upon the improved standard of living and 
increasing urbanization, the burden of hematological malignancies in sub-Saharan 
Africa particularly in Ethiopia is likely to increase recently. Therefore, this 
study was aimed to determine the incidence and trend of hematological malignancy 
in Northwest Ethiopia.
METHODS: A facility-based retrospective study was conducted from 2015 to 2019 at 
the University of Gondar and Bahir-Dar Felegehiwot comprehensive specialized 
hospitals. Hematological malignancy data were collected by using a data 
collection sheet that was consisted of patients' socio-demography, clinical, and 
laboratory data. Then, data were entered into Epi-info 3.5.1 and exported to 
SPSS version 20 for analysis. Skewness and kurtosis were used to check data 
distribution. Descriptive statistics were summarized as percentages, means, and 
standard deviations of background variables, and the trend were analyzed.
RESULTS: In this study, a total of 1,342 study participants were included. The 
mean age of study participants was 41.49 ± 16.3 years with a range of 1 to 92 
years. About 58.3%, 52.2%, and 80% of the cases were observed among males, 18-45 
age group, and urban residences, respectively. Of the total cases, 92.9% and 
7.1% were lymphoma and leukemia, respectively. On the other hand, from lymphoma 
cases, 72.3% and 27.7% were HL and NHL, respectively while from leukemic cases, 
61.1%, 23.2, 6.3%, 4.2%, and 5.3% were CLL, ALL, CML, AML, and other HM types, 
respectively. In this study, there was no trend.
CONCLUSION: We concluded that lymphoma was the dominant type of hematological 
malignancy observed in northwest Ethiopia. The study indicated that the majority 
of cases were observed among male, urban residents, and adult populations aged 
18-45 years. Therefore, special focus should be given to the highly affected 
population. Further, a prospective cohort study should be conducted for a better 
understanding of the prevalence and associated factors to it.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0260639
PMCID: PMC8635328
PMID: 34852010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist in this study.


922. Early Interv Psychiatry. 2022 Oct;16(10):1121-1129. doi: 10.1111/eip.13260.
Epub  2021 Dec 1.

Identifying pathways to early-onset metabolic dysfunction, insulin resistance 
and inflammation in young adult inpatients with emerging affective and major 
mood disorders.

Tickell AM(1), Rohleder C(1), Ho N(1), McHugh C(1), Jones G(2)(3), Song YJC(1), 
Hickie IB(1), Scott EM(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Brain and Mind Centre, University of Sydney, Camperdown, Australia.
(2)SydPath, St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney, Australia.
(3)St Vincent's Clinical School, University of NSW, Australia.
(4)Young Adult Mental Health Unit, St Vincent's Private Hospital, Sydney, 
Australia.

AIM: Young people with common mood disorders face the prospect of shortened life 
expectancy largely due to premature cardiovascular disease. Metabolic 
dysfunction is a risk factor for premature cardiovascular disease. There is an 
ongoing debate whether metabolic dysfunction can be simply explained by weight 
gain secondary to psychotropic medications or whether shared genetic 
vulnerability, intrinsic immune-metabolic disturbances or other system 
perturbations (e.g. dysregulated sympathetic nervous system, circadian 
dysfunction) are more relevant determinants of premature cardiovascular disease. 
Thus, we aimed to investigate underlying drivers of metabolic dysfunction and 
premature cardiovascular disease in young people in the early phases of common 
mood disorders.
METHODS: We evaluated the relationships between insulin resistance (assessed by 
HOMA2-IR) and body mass index (BMI), sex, diagnosis, medication, inflammatory 
markers and hormonal factors in 327 inpatients with emerging affective and major 
mood disorders admitted to the Young Adult Mental Health Unit, St Vincent's 
Private Hospital, Sydney.
RESULTS: While HOMA2-IR scores were positively associated with BMI (rs  = 0.465, 
p < .001), they were also higher in those prescribed mood stabilizers (p = .044) 
but were not associated with specific diagnoses, other medication types or the 
number of prescribed medications. Further, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein 
levels (but not thyroid-stimulating hormone and ferritin levels) were positively 
associated with HOMA2-IR (rs  = 0. 272, p < .001) and BMI (rs  = . 409, 
p < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: In addition to BMI, other non-specific markers of inflammation are 
associated with early metabolic dysfunction in young people with emerging 
affective and major mood disorders.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/eip.13260
PMID: 34852406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. J Voice. 2021 Nov 28:S0892-1997(21)00348-9. doi:
10.1016/j.jvoice.2021.10.016.  Online ahead of print.

Using Portable Voice Accumulators to Study Transfer of Speech Outcomes Following 
Intervention - A Feasibility Study.

Steurer H(1), Körner Gustafsson J(2), Franzén E(3), Schalling E(4).

Author information:
(1)Karolinska Institutet, Department of Clinical Science, Intervention and 
Technology, Division of Speech and Language Pathology, Stockholm, Sweden; 
Stockholms Sjukhem, R&D unit, Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: 
hanna.steurer@ki.se.
(2)Karolinska Institutet, Department of Clinical Science, Intervention and 
Technology, Division of Speech and Language Pathology, Stockholm, Sweden; 
Karolinska University Hospital, Theme Women's Health and Allied Health 
Professionals, Medical unit Speech & Language Pathology, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Karolinska Institutet, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, 
Division of Physical Therapy, Stockholm, Sweden; Karolinska University Hospital, 
Women's Health and Allied Health Professionals Theme, Medical unit Occupational 
Therapy & Physiotherapy, Stockholm, Sweden; Stockholms Sjukhem, R&D unit, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Karolinska Institutet, Department of Clinical Science, Intervention and 
Technology, Division of Speech and Language Pathology, Stockholm, Sweden; 
Karolinska University Hospital, Theme Women's Health and Allied Health 
Professionals, Medical unit Speech & Language Pathology, Stockholm, Sweden; 
Uppsala University, Department of Neuroscience, Speech-Language Pathology, 
Uppsala, Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the process and scientific feasibility of using a 
portable voice accumulator (PVA) to study carry-over of treatment effects on 
speech and voice in people with mild-moderate Parkinson's disease.
METHODS: The study was guided by the checklist in Consolidated Standards of 
Reporting Trials (CONSORT) 2010 statement: extension to randomized pilot and 
feasibility trials. Participants with Parkinson's disease were recruited within 
the context of a randomized controlled trial with random allocation to 
intervention with either HiCommunication, a program targeting speech and 
communication, or HiBalance, a program targeting balance and strength. Before 
and after intervention data was collected from standardized studio recordings of 
speech and registrations of voice use in daily life with the PVA VoxLog.
RESULTS: Fifteen participants were included in the study and sufficient data was 
yielded from six of them. Reasons for insufficient data included technical 
issues and difficulties handling the PVA. Changes in voice sound level from pre 
to post intervention differed at an individual level when assessed in daily life 
compared to studio recordings. Registrations in daily life provided information 
on phonation ratio and ability to adapt voice sound level to environmental 
noise.
CONCLUSION: This study highlights the challenges of studying intervention 
effects on voice use in daily life using a PVA. Improvements of test protocols 
in future studies are suggested. We exemplify how PVA data may generate a more 
detailed and ecologically valid picture of voice use complementing studio 
recordings of speech. Finally, we encourage technical development of more 
user-friendly PVAs.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvoice.2021.10.016
PMID: 34852954

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


924. BMJ Open. 2021 Dec 1;11(12):e046273. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-046273.

Validation of the predictive accuracy of health-state utility values based on 
the Lloyd model for metastatic or recurrent breast cancer in Japan.

Iwatani T(1), Inoue E(2), Tsugawa K(3).

Author information:
(1)Breast Surgery, National Cancer Center-Hospital East, Kashiwa, Japan 
t.iwatani@marianna-u.ac.jp.
(2)Research Administration Center, Showa University, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, St Marianna University School of 
Medicine, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Although there is a lack of data on health-state utility values 
(HSUVs) for calculating quality-adjusted life-years in Japan, cost-utility 
analysis has been introduced by the Japanese government to inform decision 
making in the medical field since 2016.
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to determine whether the Lloyd model which was a 
predictive model of HSUVs for metastatic breast cancer (MBC) patients in the UK 
can accurately predict actual HSUVs for Japanese patients with MBC.
DESIGN: The prospective observational study followed by the validation study of 
the clinical predictive model.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Forty-four Japanese patients with MBC were studied at 
336 survey points.
METHODS: This study consisted of two phases. In the first phase, we constructed 
a database of clinical data prospectively and HSUVs for Japanese patients with 
MBC to evaluate the predictive accuracy of HSUVs calculated using the Lloyd 
model. In the second phase, Bland-Altman analysis was used to determine how 
accurately predicted HSUVs (based on the Lloyd model) correlated with actual 
HSUVs obtained using the EuroQol 5-Dimension 5-Level questionnaire, a 
preference-based measure of HSUVs in patients with MBC.
RESULTS: In the Bland-Altman analysis, the mean difference between HSUVs 
estimated by the Lloyd model and actual HSUVs, or systematic error, was -0.106. 
The precision was 0.165. The 95% limits of agreement ranged from -0.436 to 
0.225. The t value was 4.6972, which was greater than the t value with 2 degrees 
of freedom at the 5% significance level (p=0.425).
CONCLUSIONS: There were acceptable degrees of fixed and proportional errors 
associated with the prediction of HSUVs based on the Lloyd model for Japanese 
patients with MBC. We recommend that sensitivity analysis be performed when 
conducting cost-effectiveness analyses with HSUVs calculated using the Lloyd 
model.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-046273
PMCID: PMC8638153
PMID: 34853098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: KT received honoraria from 
AstraZeneca, Chugai Pharmaceutical, Daiichi Sankyo, Eizai, Eli Lilly Japan KK, 
Nippon Kayaku, Pfizer, Taiho Pharmaceutical and Takeda Pharmaceutical.


925. BMJ Open. 2021 Dec 1;11(12):e056091. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-056091.

Psilocybin-assisted therapy for the treatment of resistant major depressive 
disorder (PsiDeR): protocol for a randomised, placebo-controlled feasibility 
trial.

Rucker J(1)(2), Jafari H(3), Mantingh T(4), Bird C(4), Modlin NL(4), Knight 
G(4), Reinholdt F(4), Day C(4)(2), Carter B(3), Young A(4)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Medicine, King's College London, London, UK 
james.rucker@kcl.ac.uk.
(2)National Affective Disorders Service, South London and Maudsley NHS 
Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, King's College London, London, UK.
(4)Department of Psychological Medicine, King's College London, London, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Psilocybin-assisted therapy may be a new treatment for major 
depressive disorder (MDD), with encouraging data from pilot trials. In this 
trial (short name: PsiDeR) we aimed to test the feasibility of a parallel-group, 
randomised, placebo-controlled design. The primary outcomes in this trial are 
measures of feasibility: recruitment rates, dropout rates and the variance of 
the primary outcome measure of depression.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We are recruiting up to 60 participants at a single centre 
in London, UK who are unresponsive to, or intolerant of, at least two 
evidence-based treatments for MDD. Participants are randomised to receive a 
single dosing session of 25 mg psilocybin or a placebo. All participants receive 
a package of psychological therapy. The primary outcome measure for depression 
is the Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale collected by blinded, 
independent raters. The primary endpoint is at 3 weeks, and the total follow-up 
is 6 weeks. With further informed consent, this study collects neuroimaging and 
omics data for mechanism and biomarker analyses and offers participants an open 
label extension consisting of a further, open label dose of 25 mg of psilocybin.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: All participants will be required to provide written 
informed consent. The trial has been authorised by the National Research Ethics 
Committee (20-LO/0206), Health Research Authority (252750) and Medicine's and 
Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (CTA 14523/0284/001-0001) in the UK. 
Dissemination of results will occur via a peer-reviewed publication and other 
relevant media.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBERS: EUDRACT2018-003573-97; NCT04959253.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-056091
PMCID: PMC8638462
PMID: 34853114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: JR is an honorary 
consultant psychiatrist at The South London & Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust, a 
consultant psychiatrist at Sapphire Medical Clinics and an NIHR Clinician 
Scientist Fellow at the Centre for Affective Disorders at King’s College London. 
JR’s salary is funded by a fellowship (CS-2017-17-007) from the National 
Institute for Health Research (NIHR). JR leads the Psychedelic Trials Group with 
Professor Allan Young at King’s College London. King’s College London receives 
grant funding from COMPASS Pathways PLC and Beckley PsyTech to undertake phase 1 
and phase 2 trials with psychedelics, including psilocybin. COMPASS Pathways PLC 
has paid for James Rucker to attend trial related meetings and conferences to 
present the results of research using psilocybin. COMPASS Pathways provided the 
psilocybin and placebo capsules for this trial, without charge. JR asserts that 
COMPASS Pathways had no influence over the content of this article or the design 
of this trial. JR has undertaken paid consultancy work for Beckley PsyTech and 
Clerkenwell Health. Payments for consultancy work are received and managed by 
King’s College London. James Rucker does not benefit personally. JR has no 
shareholdings in pharmaceutical companies. Allan H Young. Employed by King’s 
College London; Honorary Consultant SLaM (NHS UK). Paid lectures and advisory 
boards for the following companies with drugs used in affective and related 
disorders: Astrazenaca, Eli Lilly, Lundbeck, Sunovion, Servier, Livanova, 
Janssen, Allegan, Bionomics, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma, COMPASS. Consultant to 
Johnson & Johnson. Consultant to Livanova. Received honoraria for attending 
advisory boards and presenting talks at meetings organised by LivaNova. 
Principal Investigator in the Restore-Life VNS registry study funded by 
LivaNova. Principal Investigator on ESKETINTRD3004: 'An Open-label, Long-term, 
Safety and Efficacy Study of Intranasal Esketamine in Treatment-resistant 
Depression'. Principal Investigator on 'The Effects of Psilocybin on Cognitive 
Function in Healthy Participants'. Principal Investigator on 'The Safety and 
Efficacy of Psilocybin in Participants with Treatment-Resistant Depression 
(P-TRD)'. Grant funding (past and present): NIMH (USA); CIHR (Canada); NARSAD 
(USA); Stanley Medical Research Institute (USA); MRC (UK); Wellcome Trust (UK); 
Royal College of Physicians (Edin); BMA (UK); UBC-VGH Foundation (Canada); WEDC 
(Canada); CCS Depression Research Fund (Canada); MSFHR (Canada); NIHR (UK). 
Janssen (UK). No shareholdings in pharmaceutical companies. All other authors 
declare no competing interests.


926. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2022 Feb;148(2):409-417. doi: 
10.1007/s00432-021-03875-1. Epub 2021 Dec 1.

The impact of modern radiotherapy on long-term cardiac sequelae in breast cancer 
survivor: a focus on deep inspiration breath-hold (DIBH) technique.

Salvestrini V(1), Iorio GC(2), Borghetti P(3), De Felice F(4), Greco C(5), 
Nardone V(6), Fiorentino A(7), Gregucci F(7), Desideri I(8).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Careggi, University of 
Florence, Largo Brambilla 3, 50134, Florence, Italy. 
salvestrini.viola@gmail.com.
(2)Radiation Oncology, University of Turin, Turin, Italy.
(3)Radiation Oncology, University and SpedaliCivili, Brescia, Italy.
(4)Radiation Oncology, Policlinico Umberto I "Sapienza" University of Rome, 
Rome, Italy.
(5)Radiation Oncology, Campus Bio-Medico University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(6)RadiationOncology, Ospedale del Mare, Viale della Metamorfosi, Naples, Italy.
(7)Radiation Oncology, General Regional Hospital "F. Miulli, Acquaviva delle 
Fonti, Bari, Italy.
(8)Radiation Oncology, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Careggi, University of 
Florence, Largo Brambilla 3, 50134, Florence, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: One of the most feared side effects of radiotherapy (RT) in the 
setting of breast cancer (BC) patients is cardiac toxicity. This side effect can 
jeopardize the quality of life (QoL) of long-term survivors. The impact of 
modern techniques of RT such as deep inspiration breath hold (DIBH) have 
dramatically changed this setting. We report and discuss the results of the 
literature overview of this paper.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Literature references were obtained with a PubMed query, 
hand searching, and clinicaltrials.gov.
RESULTS: We reported and discussed the toxicity of RT and the improvements due 
to the modern techniques in the setting of BC patients.
CONCLUSIONS: BC patients often have a long life expectancy, thus the RT should 
aim at limiting toxicities and at the same time maintaining the same high cure 
rates. Further studies are needed to evaluate the risk-benefit ratio to identify 
patients at higher risk and to tailor the treatment choices.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-021-03875-1
PMID: 34853887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Eur J Health Econ. 2022 Aug;23(6):1037-1057. doi:
10.1007/s10198-021-01407-9.  Epub 2021 Dec 2.

Willingness-to-pay for cancer treatment and outcome: a systematic review.

Yong ASJ(1), Lim YH(2), Cheong MWL(1), Hamzah E(3), Teoh SL(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Monash University Malaysia, Jalan Lagoon Selatan, Bandar 
Sunway, 47500, Subang Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)School of Biosciences, Taylor's University, Subang Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia.
(3)Hospis Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Monash University Malaysia, Jalan Lagoon Selatan, Bandar 
Sunway, 47500, Subang Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia. teoh.siew.li@monash.edu.

BACKGROUND: Understanding patient preferences in cancer management is essential 
for shared decision-making. Patient or societal willingness-to-pay (WTP) for 
desired outcomes in cancer management represents their preferences and values of 
these outcomes.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this systematic review is to critically evaluate how 
current literature has addressed WTP in relation to cancer treatment and 
achievement of outcomes.
METHODS: Seven databases were searched from inception until 2 March 2021 to 
include studies with primary data of WTP values for cancer treatments or 
achievement of outcomes that were elicited using stated preference methods.
RESULTS: Fifty-four studies were included in this review. All studies were 
published after year 2000 and more than 90% of the studies were conducted in 
high-income countries. Sample size of the studies ranged from 35 to 2040, with 
patient being the most studied population. There was a near even distribution 
between studies using contingent valuation and discrete choice experiment. Based 
on the included studies, the highest WTP values were for a quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) ($11,498-$589,822), followed by 1-year survival ($3-$198,576), 
quality of life (QoL) improvement ($5531-$139,499), and pain reduction 
($79-$94,662). Current empirical evidence suggested that improvement in QoL and 
pain reduction had comparable weights to survival in cancer management.
CONCLUSION: This systematic review provides a summary on stated preference 
studies that elicited patient preferences via WTP and summarised their 
respective values. Respondents in this review had comparable WTP for 1-year 
survival and QoL, suggesting that improvement in QoL should be emphasised 
together with survival in cancer management.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-021-01407-9
PMID: 34853930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Patient. 2022 Jul;15(4):445-457. doi: 10.1007/s40271-021-00555-7. Epub 2021
Dec  2.

Challenges in Using Recommended Quality of Life Measures to Assess Fluctuating 
Health: A Think-Aloud Study to Understand How Recall and Timing of Assessment 
Influence Patient Responses.

Sanghera S(1), Walther A(2), Peters TJ(3), Coast J(4).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Bristol (HEB), Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical 
School, University of Bristol, 1-5 Whiteladies Road, Bristol, BS8 1NU, UK. 
sabina.sanghera@bristol.ac.uk.
(2)Bristol Cancer Institute, University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust, 
Bristol, UK.
(3)Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University of Bristol, 
Bristol, UK.
(4)Health Economics Bristol (HEB), Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical 
School, University of Bristol, 1-5 Whiteladies Road, Bristol, BS8 1NU, UK.

BACKGROUND: It can be challenging to measure quality of life to calculate 
quality-adjusted life-years in recurrent fluctuating health states, as 
quality of life can constantly change. It is not clear how patients who 
experience fluctuations complete measures and how assessment timing and recall 
influence responses.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to understand how patients with fluctuating health complete 
widely recommended and commonly used measures (EQ-5D-5L, EORTC QLQ-C30 and 
SF-12) and the extent to which the recall period ('health today', 'past week' 
and 'past 4 weeks') and timing of assessment influence the way that patients 
complete these questionnaires.
METHODS: Twenty-four adult patients undergoing chemotherapy for urological, 
gynaecological or bowel cancers in the UK participated in think-aloud 
interviews, while completing the measures, completed a pictorial task 
illustrating how quality of life changed during the chemotherapy cycle and took 
part in semi-structured interviews. Transcripts were analysed using constant 
comparison.
RESULTS: Patients were consistent in describing their quality of life as 
changing considerably throughout a chemotherapy cycle. The shorter recall period 
of 'health today' does not adequately represent patients' quality of life 
because of fluctuations, patients remarked they could give a different answer 
depending on the timing of assessment, and many struggled to combine the "ups 
and downs" to answer measures with longer recall ('past week' and 'past 4 
weeks'). Across all measures, patients attempted to provide averages, adopt the 
peak-end rule or focus on the best part of their experience. Patients commonly 
used more than one approach when completing a given questionnaire as well as 
across questionnaires.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients who experience recurrent fluctuations in health are unable 
to provide meaningful responses about their quality of life when completing 
quality-of-life measures due to the recall period and timing of assessment. The 
use of such responses to calculate health state values in economic evaluations 
to inform resource allocation decisions in fluctuating conditions must be 
questioned.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40271-021-00555-7
PMCID: PMC9197908
PMID: 34854064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Axel Walther reports having received funding 
from Tesaro, Roche and AstraZeneca during the 36 months prior to publication for 
activities outside of the submitted research. The remaining authors, Dr. Sabina 
Sanghera and Profs. Coast and Peters report no conflict of interests.


929. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2021 Sep 16;165:D6193.

[Adjusting medication at the end of life: towards optimalisation of healthcare 
in the final fase of life].

[Article in Dutch]

Geijteman ECT(1)(2), Elsten EECM(1), van der Kuy PHMH(3), van der Heide A(4), 
van der Rijt CKCD(1), van Zuylen L(5).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus MC, Rotterdam: Erasmus MC Kanker Instituut, afd. Interne Oncologie.
(2)Contact: Eric C.T. Geijteman (e.geijteman@erasmusmc.nl)).
(3)Erasmus MC, Rotterdam: Afd. Apotheek.
(4)Erasmus MC, Rotterdam:Afd. Maatschappelijke Gezondheidszorg.
(5)Amsterdam UMC, afd. Medische Oncologie, Amsterdam.

Patients with a limited life expectancy use many medications. Especially 
medications with a focus on the prevention and treatment of illnesses may be 
inappropriate in this last phase of life. We present the cases of three patients 
in which we highlight that such medication reconsideration 1) is quite often 
done shortly before death, 2) is not without potential disadvantages, and 3) 
should be accompanied with a patient centered and positive communication style. 
We argue that the use of medications should be reconsidered in a timely phase, 
ideally as part of advance care planning.

PMID: 34854643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Health Technol Assess. 2021 Nov;25(72):1-158. doi: 10.3310/hta25720.

Primary trabeculectomy versus primary glaucoma eye drops for newly diagnosed 
advanced glaucoma: TAGS RCT.

King AJ(1), Fernie G(2), Hudson J(2), Kernohan A(3), Azuara-Blanco A(4), Burr 
J(5), Homer T(3), Shabaninejad H(3), Sparrow JM(6), Garway-Heath D(7)(8), Barton 
K(7)(8), Norrie J(9), McDonald A(2), Vale L(3), MacLennan G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Nottingham University Hospital, Nottingham, UK.
(2)Centre for Healthcare Randomised Trials (CHaRT), Health Services Research 
Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(3)Health Economics Group, Population Health Sciences Institute, Newcastle 
University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(4)Centre for Public Health, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, UK.
(5)School of Medicine, Medical and Biological Sciences, University of St 
Andrews, St Andrews, UK.
(6)Bristol Eye Hospital, University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust, 
Bristol, UK.
(7)Institute of Ophthalmology, University College London, London, UK.
(8)Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(9)Edinburgh Clinical Trials Unit, Usher Institute, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.

BACKGROUND: Patients diagnosed with advanced primary open-angle glaucoma are at 
a high risk of lifetime blindness. Uncertainty exists about whether primary 
medical management (glaucoma eye drops) or primary surgical treatment (augmented 
trabeculectomy) provide the best and safest patient outcomes.
OBJECTIVES: To compare primary medical management with primary surgical 
treatment (augmented trabeculectomy) in patients with primary open-angle 
glaucoma presenting with advanced disease in terms of health-related quality of 
life, clinical effectiveness, safety and cost-effectiveness.
DESIGN: This was a two-arm, parallel, multicentre, pragmatic randomised 
controlled trial.
SETTING: Secondary care eye services.
PARTICIPANTS: Adult patients presenting with advanced primary open-angle 
glaucoma in at least one eye, as defined by the Hodapp-Parrish-Anderson 
classification of severe glaucoma.
INTERVENTION: Primary medical treatment - escalating medical management with 
glaucoma eye drops. Primary trabeculectomy treatment - trabeculectomy augmented 
with mitomycin C.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was health-related quality of life 
measured with the Visual Function Questionnaire-25 at 2 years post 
randomisation. Secondary outcomes were mean intraocular pressure; EQ-5D-5L; 
Health Utilities Index 3; Glaucoma Utility Index; cost and cost-effectiveness; 
generic, vision-specific and disease-specific health-related quality of life; 
clinical effectiveness; and safety.
RESULTS: A total of 453 participants were recruited. The mean age of the 
participants was 67 years (standard deviation 12 years) in the trabeculectomy 
arm and 68 years (standard deviation 12 years) in the medical management arm. 
Over 65% of participants were male and more than 80% were white. At 24 months, 
the mean difference in Visual Function Questionnaire-25 score was 1.06 (95% 
confidence interval -1.32 to 3.43; p = 0.383). There was no evidence of a 
difference between arms in the EQ-5D-5L score, the Health Utilities Index or the 
Glaucoma Utility Index. At 24 months, the mean intraocular pressure was 
12.40 mmHg in the trabeculectomy arm and 15.07 mmHg in the medical management 
arm (mean difference -2.75 mmHg, 95% confidence interval -3.84 to -1.66 mmHg; 
p < 0.001). Fewer types of glaucoma eye drops were required in the 
trabeculectomy arm. LogMAR visual acuity was slightly better in the medical 
management arm (mean difference 0.07, 95% confidence interval 0.02 to 0.11; 
p = 0.006) than in the trabeculectomy arm. There was no evidence of difference 
in safety between the two arms. A discrete choice experiment updated the utility 
values for the Glaucoma Utility Index. The within-trial economic analysis found 
a small increase in the mean EQ-5D-5L score (0.04) and that trabeculectomy has a 
higher probability of being cost-effective than medical management. The 
incremental cost of trabeculectomy per quality-adjusted life-year was £45,456. 
Therefore, at 2 years, surgery is unlikely to be considered cost-effective at a 
threshold of £20,000 per quality-adjusted life-year. When extrapolated over a 
patient's lifetime in a model-based analysis, trabeculectomy, compared with 
medical treatment, was associated with higher costs (average £2687), a larger 
number of quality-adjusted life-years (average 0.28) and higher incremental cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year gained (average £9679). The likelihood of 
trabeculectomy being cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay threshold of £20,000 
per quality-adjusted life year gained was 73%.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggested that there was no difference between 
treatment arms in health-related quality of life, as measured with the Visual 
Function Questionnaire-25 at 24 months. Intraocular pressure was better 
controlled in the trabeculectomy arm, and this may reduce visual field 
progression. Modelling over the patient's lifetime suggests that trabeculectomy 
may be cost-effective over the range of values of society's willingness to pay 
for a quality-adjusted life-year.
FUTURE WORK: Further follow-up of participants will allow us to estimate the 
long-term differences of disease progression, patient experience and 
cost-effectiveness.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN56878850.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research 
(NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in 
Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 25, No. 72. See the NIHR Journals Library 
website for further project information.

Plain Language Summary: Glaucoma is an eye condition in which the intraocular 
pressure is too high, causing damage to the optic nerve and loss of vision. 
Patients with severe vision loss at diagnosis are the most at risk of blindness 
in their lifetime. Lowering pressure in the eye is the only way to prevent 
further vision loss. Two treatments to lower pressure are commonly used: using 
eye drops or having an operation known as a trabeculectomy. In England, Wales 
and Northern Ireland, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence 
recommends surgery as the first treatment. However, we do not know which 
treatment is best for preventing vision loss or which is safest, has the best 
patient experience or provides the best value for money for the NHS. Therefore, 
surgery is not usually carried out in the first instance and patients start with 
eye drops instead. This study compared whether starting treatment with eye drops 
affected the quality of life of patients with advanced glaucoma more or less 
than starting treatment with trabeculectomy. We also investigated if initial 
treatment with surgery and initial treatment with eye drops were equally good at 
controlling pressure and were equally safe, and how much each treatment cost the 
NHS. Every patient had an equal chance of starting treatment with surgery or eye 
