(2)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: Radical cystectomy (RC) is the historic gold standard treatment 
for muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC), but trimodal therapy (TMT) has 
emerged as a valid therapeutic option for select patients. Given that 
prospective clinical trials have been difficult to perform in this area, our aim 
was to compare these two primary treatment strategies using decision analytic 
methods.
METHOD: A two-dimensional Markov microsimulation model was constructed using 
TreeAge Pro to compare RC and TMT for patients with newly diagnosed MIBC. A 
comprehensive literature search was used to populate model probabilities and 
utilities. Our primary outcome was quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE). 
Secondary outcomes included crude life expectancy (LE) and bladder cancer 
recurrences. The simulated patient for our model was an adult with MIBC (pT2-4 
N0 M0) who was a candidate for either RC or TMT.
RESULTS: A total of 500 000 patients were simulated. TMT resulted in an 
estimated mean QALE of 7.48 vs. 7.41 for RC. However, the average LE for 
patients treated with TMT was lower compared with RC (10.20 vs. 10.74 years). A 
sensitivity analysis evaluating the impact of age showed that younger patients 
treated with RC had greater QALE and longer LE than those treated with TMT; 
inverse findings were observed for elderly patients. Overall, 39.4% of patients 
treated with TMT experienced a bladder recurrence.
CONCLUSIONS: RC results in a longer LE compared to TMT (0.54 years), but with a 
lower QALE (-0.07 years). The preferred treatment strategy varied with patient 
age.

DOI: 10.5489/cuaj.7453
PMCID: PMC9054325
PMID: 34812723

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Dr. Sridhar has been an 
advisory board member for Astellas, AstraZeneca, Bayer, BMS, Immunomedex, 
Janssen, Merck, Pfizer, Roche, and Seagen. Dr. Catton has been an advisory board 
member for Abbvie and Bayer; and has received payment/honoraria from Abbvie and 
TerSera for preparing and presenting educational materials. Dr. Chung has 
received grants and/or honoraria from Abbvie, Boston Scientific, TerSera, and 
Verity; and has participated in clinical trials supported by ICON and 
Medivation. Dr. Zlotta has been an advisory board member for AstraZeneca, 
Ferring, Janssen, Merck, Sanofi, and Verity. Dr. Fleshner has received 
honoraria, advisory consulting, and speaker bureau fees from Abbvie, Astellas, 
Janssen, Merck, and Sanofi; holds stock in Verity Pharma; and has participated 
in clinical trials supported by Astellas, Bayer, and Janssen. Dr. Kulkarni has 
been an advisory board member for Astellas, Bristol Myers Squibb, Ferring, 
Janssen, Merck, Roche, Theralase, and Verity; has received grants and/or 
honoraria from Abbvie, Ferring, Sanofi, and TerSera; and has participated in 
clinical trials supported by Astra Zeneca, Bristol Myers Squibb, Janssen, Merck, 
Pfizer, Seagen, Theralase, and Verity. The remaining authors do not report any 
competing personal or financial interests related to this work.


782. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2022 Jan;183:109152. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2021.109152. Epub 2021 Nov 20.

Lifetime cost-effectiveness simulation of once-weekly exenatide in type 2 
diabetes: A cost-utility analysis based on the EXSCEL trial.

Becker F(1), Dakin HA(2), Reed SD(3), Li Y(3), Leal J(1), Gustavson SM(4), 
Wittbrodt E(4), Hernandez AF(3), Gray AM(1), Holman RR(5).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(2)Health Economics Research Centre, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. 
Electronic address: helen.dakin@ndph.ox.ac.uk.
(3)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, 
NC, USA.
(4)AstraZeneca Research and Development, Gaithersburg, MD, USA.
(5)Diabetes Trials Unit, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

AIMS: The Exenatide Study of Cardiovascular Event Lowering (EXSCEL) trial 
assessed once-weekly exenatide (EQW) vs. placebo, added to usual care in 14,752 
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (Clinicaltrials.gov: NCT01144338). We 
assessed the lifetime cost-effectiveness of adding EQW vs. usual care alone from 
a healthcare perspective.
METHODS: Medical resource use and EQ-5D utilities were collected throughout the 
study. Within-trial results were extrapolated to a lifetime horizon using the UK 
Prospective Diabetes Study Outcomes Model version 2 (UKPDS-OM2), predicting 
predict cardiovascular and microvascular events. Cost-effectiveness was 
evaluated separately for US and UK settings, with outcomes measured in 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: EQW plus usual care gained 0.162 QALYs at an additional cost of 
$41,545/patient, compared with usual care in a US setting. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was $259,223/QALY. In a UK setting, the QALY 
gain was 0.151 at an additional cost of £6357: an ICER of £42,589/QALY. 
Sensitivity analyses ranged between $34,369-$269,571 and £3430-£46,560 per QALY 
gained.
CONCLUSIONS: In a lifetime extrapolation, adding EQW to usual care increased 
QALYs and costs compared with usual care alone. The base-case ICERs exceeded the 
commonly-cited cost-effectiveness thresholds of $100,000/QALY and £20,000/QALY. 
However, ICERs were considerably lower in some subgroups, and in sensitivity 
analyses.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2021.109152
PMCID: PMC8844554
PMID: 34813910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


783. Intellect Dev Disabil. 2021 Dec 1;59(6):441-445. doi: 
10.1352/1934-9556-59.6.441.

Medical Student Choices Regarding Ventilator Allocation for People With 
Disabilities.

Muller C(1), Brodar C(1), Brodar KE(2), Goodman K(3), Brosco JP(4).

Author information:
(1)Carly Muller and Canon Brodar, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine.
(2)Kaitlyn E. Brodar, University of Miami Mailman Center for Child Development 
and University of Miami Department of Psychology.
(3)Kenneth Goodman, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine and University 
of Miami Institute for Bioethics and Health Policy.
(4)Jeffrey P. Brosco, University of Miami Mailman Center for Child Development 
and University of Miami Institute for Bioethics and Health Policy.

In the COVID-19 pandemic, concerns exist that ventilator triage policies may 
lead to discrimination against people with disabilities. This study evaluates 
whether preclinical medical students demonstrate bias towards people with 
disabilities during an educational ventilator-allocation exercise. Written 
student responses to a triage simulation activity were analyzed to describe 
ventilator priority rankings and to identify themes regarding disability. 
Disability status was not cited as a reason to withhold a ventilator. Key themes 
observed in ventilator triage decisions included life expectancy, comorbidities, 
and social worth. Although disability discrimination has historically been 
perpetuated by health care professionals, it is encouraging that preclinical 
medical students did not demonstrate explicit bias against people with 
disabilities in ventilator triage scenarios.

©AAIDD.

DOI: 10.1352/1934-9556-59.6.441
PMID: 34814168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2021 Mar 10;42(3):527-530. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200306-00268.

[Deaths and life expectancy losses attributed to high-salt diet in Shandong 
province].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Zhang JY(1), Zhang B(1), Tang J(1), Gao C(1), Dong J(1), Ren J(1), Guo X(1), Xu 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Shandong Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Ji'nan 250014, 
China.

Objective: To estimate the deaths and life expectancy losses attributed to diet 
with high salt in Shandong province. Methods: Based on 24 h urinary sodium and 
blood pressure levels from the final evaluation survey of Shandong-Ministry of 
Health Action on Salt and Hypertension Project (SMASH) in 2016 and death cause 
data from Shandong Mortality Surveillance System, the population attributable 
fractions (PAF) and the deaths due to high-salt diet were calculated based on 
the framework of comparative risk assessment and the life expectancy loss was 
calculated by life table method. Results: A total of 32 987 deaths caused by 
high-salt diets were reported in 2016, accounting for 11.74% of related disease 
deaths and 4.95% of all deaths. The proportion of deaths due to high-salt diet 
in men (13.51%) was higher than that in women (9.17%). Cardiovascular diseases 
were the major causes of deaths due to high salt diet, accounting for 90.82% of 
all disease deaths caused by high-salt diets. The other causes were gastric 
cancer (8.10%) and chronic kidney disease (1.08%). The PAF in urban residents 
(13.87%) was higher than that in rural residents (10.87%). A loss of 0.58 years 
of the life expectancy were attributed to the high-salt diet. The different 
diseases caused by high-salt diet had different effects on life expectancy loss, 
ischemic heart disease ranked first, followed by cerebral hemorrhage and 
cerebral infarction. Conclusions: The proportion of deaths attributed to 
high-salt diets was high in Shandong. Cardiovascular diseases were the most 
important causes of deaths caused by high-salt diets. High-salt diet is still 
seriously affecting the health of residents in Shandong, indicating that salt 
reduction interventions need to be strengthened.

Publisher: 目的： 分析山东省居民归因高盐饮食相关疾病死亡和寿命损失。 方法： 
利用2016年山东省与原卫生部联合减盐防控高血压项目终末期评估调查获得的24 
h尿钠和血压值，结合2016年全省居民死因监测数据，按照比较风险评估理论，计算各类疾病归因分值（PAF）和因高盐饮食导致死亡，利用寿命表法计算归因期望寿命损失。 
结果： 2016年山东省因高盐饮食导致死亡32 
987人，占相关疾病死亡的11.74%，占全部死亡的4.95%。男性因高盐死亡比例（13.51%）高于女性（9.17%）。高盐饮食导致死亡的疾病主要是心脑血管疾病（90.82%），其次为胃癌（8.10%）和慢性肾病（1.08%）。城市居民PAF（13.87%）高于农村（10.87%）。高盐饮食导致山东省居民期望寿命减少0.58岁。高盐饮食所致不同疾病对期望寿命损失作用不同，缺血性心脏病位居首位，其次为脑出血和脑梗死。 
结论： 山东省居民归因高盐饮食死亡的比例较高，心脑血管疾病是高盐饮食导致死亡的重要原因。高盐饮食严重影响山东省居民健康，还需加强减盐干预工作。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200306-00268
PMID: 34814424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2021 Apr 10;42(4):728-734. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200729-00993.

[Applications of Markov model for cost-effectiveness analysis of screening in 
epidemiology].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Liu QP(1), Gao P(1), Tang X(1), Hu YH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, Beijing 100191, China.
(2)Medical Informatics Center, Peking University, Beijing 100191, China.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of screening in epidemiology is essential for public 
health decision-making. This paper describes the general principles, basic steps 
involved in implementation, analytic methods and other related issues of Markov 
model. Based on a practical research case of evaluating the cost-effectiveness 
of primary open-angle glaucoma screening in a Chinese population, key points in 
applications of Markov model for cost-effectiveness analysis of screening were 
discussed in detail, including model development, parameters definition, 
available software, base case analysis, sensitivity analysis and the 
interpretation of the results. For better supporting evidence-informed decision 
making in public health, future studies should be aware of the accuracy of 
parameters in Markov models and the transparency of the models and results, as 
well as complying with the relevant reporting standards.

Publisher: 流行病学筛查的成本效果分析是进行公共卫生决策的重要依据。本文介绍了马尔可夫模型（Markov 
model）的基本原理、构建步骤、分析方法和相关注意事项。通过中国社区人群中开展的原发性开角型青光眼筛查成本效果分析的实例，从模型构建、参数设置、软件应用、基础分析、敏感性分析和结果解读等方面，详细讨论了马尔可夫模型用于筛查成本效果分析的要点。后续研究应注意马尔可夫模型参数的准确性和研究结果的透明度，并且需要按照相应的报告规范开展流行病学筛查的成本效果分析，以便更好地为公共卫生决策提供科学证据。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200729-00993
PMID: 34814459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2021 May 10;42(5):814-822. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200717-00954.

[Study on increase of average life expectancy of residents in Tianjin from 1999 
to 2018].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Wang DZ(1), Zhang H(1), Zhang S(1), Sun K(1), Wang C(1), Wang Z(1), Song GD(1), 
Shen CF(1), Zheng WL(1), Jiang GH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Non-Communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Tianjin 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Tianjin 300011, China.

Objective: To assess the trend and the factors responsible for the increase of 
life expectancy of residents in Tianjin over the past two decades. Methods: 
Abridged Life Table and Arriaga's decomposition method was applied to quantify 
the influence of the age structure and the leading causes of death on the 
increase of life expectancy of residents in Tianjin from 1999 to 2018. Results: 
In the past 20 years, the life expectancy of residents in Tianjin increased by 
4.97 years, the life expectancy of men and women increased by 4.11 years and 
5.86 years, respectively. The decrease of mortality rate in 0-year-old group 
contributed 19.17% to the increase of the life expectancy, while the decrease of 
mortality rate in residents aged ≥55 years contributed more to the increase of 
life expectancy, with the cumulative contribution rate of 67.38%. The major 
contribution to the increase of life expectancy was the mortality reduction of 
cerebrovascular disease, respiratory disease, cardiovascular disease, perinatal 
diseases, congenital malformations and injury, with the contribution percentage 
of 27.27%, 21.37%, 15.76%, 12.22%, 6.44% and 4.86%, respectively. The increase 
of mortality of malignant tumor, injury and poisoning, diabetes and nervous 
system diseases and others had a negative effect on the increase of life 
expectancy of people aged ≥75 years. From 1999 to 2018, the life expectancy 
increased from 76.72 years to 81.46 years (t=9.11, P<0.001), the annual percent 
change (APC) was 0.58%. From 2011 to 2018, it was stable, ranging from 81.46 
years to 81.69 years (t=0.89, P=0.387, APC=0.13%). Conclusion: From 1999 to 
2018, the increase of life expectancy was attributed to the decrease of 
mortalities in infants and the elderly and the decrease of mortalities of 
cerebro-cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, perinatal disease, 
congenital malformations and injury. However, these positive contributions were 
partly offset by the negative contribution of malignant tumor, injury, diabetes 
and nervous system disease in those aged ≥75 years. Comprehensive prevention and 
control of key diseases should be strengthened in key population in order to 
further improve the life expectancy of the population.

Publisher: 目的： 分析近20年天津市居民期望寿命变化规律以及对期望寿命增量的影响因素。 方法： 
应用简略寿命表、期望寿命差异的年龄和死因分解法对天津市户籍居民1999-2018年死因监测数据进行分析，计算不同年龄、不同疾病死亡率对期望寿命增量的贡献值和百分比。 
结果： 
20年间天津市户籍居民期望寿命增加了4.97岁，男性、女性期望寿命分别增加4.11岁和5.86岁，女性增幅高于男性。0岁组死亡率下降对期望寿命增加的贡献率为19.17%，≥55岁组居民死亡率下降对期望寿命的增加贡献较大，累计贡献率为67.38%。脑血管病、呼吸系统疾病、心脏病、围生期情况、先天畸形以及损伤和中毒死亡率下降对期望寿命提高的贡献较大，贡献率分别为27.27%、21.37%、15.76%、12.22%、6.44%和4.86%。恶性肿瘤、损伤和中毒、糖尿病、神经系统疾病等死亡率的增加对≥75岁人群寿命增长产生负向作用。天津市期望寿命增加具有阶段性特点，1999-2011年为76.72~81.46岁，具有上升趋势（t=9.11，P<0.001），年度变化百分比（APC）为0.58%；2011-2018年为81.46~81.69岁，为平稳趋势（t=0.89，P=0.387），APC为0.13%。 
结论： 
1999-2018年天津市居民期望寿命增长主要归因于婴儿、老年人、脑血管病、呼吸系统疾病、心脏病、围生期情况、先天畸形以及损伤和中毒死亡率的下降，而≥75岁人群恶性肿瘤、损伤和中毒、糖尿病、神经系统疾病等死亡率的增加对期望寿命增长产生了负向作用。应加强重点人群、重点疾病的综合防治，进一步提高人群期望寿命。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200717-00954
PMID: 34814472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2021 May 10;42(5):846-852. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200327-00456.

[Analysis on adult health life expectancy in Shanghai].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Fang B(1), Wang CF(2), Yu HT(2), Chen L(2), Cai RZ(2), Qian NS(2), Xia T(2), Wu 
F(3).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Institute of Preventive Medicine/Shanghai Municipal Center for 
Disease Control & Prevention, Shanghai 200336, China Shanghai Medical College of 
Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China.
(2)Shanghai Institute of Preventive Medicine/Shanghai Municipal Center for 
Disease Control & Prevention, Shanghai 200336, China.
(3)Shanghai Medical College of Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China.

Objective: To investigate health status and calculate health life expectancy 
(HE) of residents in Shanghai, analyze health related factors and provided 
foundation of health policy. Methods: A multi-stage stratified random sampling 
was used to obtain self-reported health survey in Shanghai. WHO questionnaire 
was used to evaluate the health quality of life which was designed for the world 
health survey, Sullivan's method was used to calculate HE. Results: The 
self-assessment disability measure for adults over 18 years old in Shanghai was 
0.25, higher for women (0.28) than for men (0.23). LE was 65.76 years for adults 
over 18 years old, higher for women (68.22) than for men (63.39). HE for adults 
over 18 years old was 47.99 years old, higher for men (49.05) than women 
(47.14). HE's proportion in LE gradually decreases with age. It accounts for 
72.97% in the 18 years old and 39.00% in the 85 years old. Conclusions: The 
health of adult male in Shanghai is higher than that of female, and the 
proportion of HE loss of elderly is higher than young people. It is necessary to 
focus on the aging problem and strengthen the long-term care and health support 
system for the elderly. Improve the prevention and control of major diseases 
such as chronic diseases,which affect the quality of life expectancy seriously. 
Promotes the health level and quality of life in Shanghai.

Publisher: 目的： 评价上海市居民健康状况，测算健康期望寿命，分析影响居民健康相关因素，为卫生决策提供有力的信息和依据。 方法： 
采用多阶段分层随机抽样方法随机抽取上海市≥18岁户籍居民作为调查对象，采用WHO在世界健康调查中使用的自评健康调查问卷，进行居民自评健康状况调查。应用CHOHT模型校正自评健康调查数据，获得人群自报伤残测度，结合上海市居民出生、死亡和人口资料编制人口寿命表计算期望寿命，采用Sullivan法测算居民健康期望寿命。 
结果： 
2017年上海市≥18岁成年人自评伤残测度为0.25，女性（0.28）高于男性（0.23）；≥18岁成年人期望寿命为65.76岁，女性（68.22岁）高于男性（63.39岁）；≥18岁成年人健康期望寿命为47.99岁，男性（49.05岁）高于女性（47.14岁）；健康期望寿命在期望寿命中的比例随年龄增加逐渐降低，18岁组居民健康期望寿命占期望寿命比例为72.97%，至85岁组仅为39.00%。 
结论： 
上海市成年人男性健康水平高于女性，随着年龄增加健康期望寿命损失占期望寿命的比例越来越高。应重视提高女性、老龄等人群的生存质量，提升对影响居民寿命质量的慢性病等重大疾病防控，加强重点人群的长期照护及健康支持体系，提升居民健康水平和生活质量。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200327-00456
PMID: 34814477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2021 Jun 10;42(6):1018-1023. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200417-00591.

[Analysis on the difference between life expectancy and healthy life expectancy 
in Shanghai].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Yu HT(1), Xia T(2), Wang CF(2), Fang B(1), Cai RZ(1), Chen L(2), Jin S(2), Fu 
C(2).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Institute of Preventive Medicine, Shanghai 200336, China.
(2)Shanghai Municipal Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Shanghai 
200336, China.

Objective: To analyze the difference of life expectancy and healthy life 
expectancy among Shanghai residents of different gender and age groups. Methods: 
Compare the trends of life expectancy among Shanghai and other longevity 
countries/regions. With the disability weights of GBD, Sullivan method was 
applied to calculate the healthy life expectancy in Shanghai and analyze the 
loss of healthy life years among the population of different age groups and 
genders. Results: In the past 40 years, life expectancy had increased by 10.86 
years in Shanghai. In 2016, the life expectancy of Shanghai residents was 83.18 
years old, and 80.83 years old for males and 85.61 years old for females. The 
healthy life expectancy of Shanghai residents was 69.46 years, and 68.68 years 
for males and 70.23 years old for females. The gap with life expectancy was 
13.72 years old, 12.15 years old and 15.38 years old, respectively. They account 
for 16.49%, 15.02% and 17.97% of life expectancy, respectively. The healthy life 
expectancy of women in all age groups is higher than that of men with the 
average gap of 1.76 years. The difference between the two is as small as 1.36 
years at 20-24 years old, and as large as 2.24 years at 70-74 years old. The 
loss rate of healthy life expectancy increases with age, with women higher than 
men before age 65 and vice versa after age 65 years old. Conclusions: The life 
expectancy in Shanghai has reached the world leading level, but the healthy life 
loss is still large. It is necessary to further improve the life quality with 
the reducing mortality rate, especially for women and men over 65 years old.

Publisher: 目的： 分析不同年龄、性别的上海市居民期望寿命和健康期望寿命的差异。 方法： 
分析比较上海市和全球长寿国家/地区期望寿命的变化趋势；利用全球疾病负担研究建立的疾病和健康结局的失能权重，应用Sullivan法测算上海市居民健康期望寿命，并分析不同年龄、性别人群的健康寿命损失。 
结果： 
近40年，上海市期望寿命增长了10.86岁，2016年上海市居民期望寿命为83.18岁，其中男性80.83岁，女性85.61岁。健康期望寿命为69.46岁，其中男性为68.68岁，女性为70.23岁；与期望寿命的差距分别为13.72、12.15和15.38岁；分别占期望寿命的16.49%、15.02%和17.97%。与期望寿命相同，各年龄组女性的健康期望寿命均高于男性，平均差距为1.76岁，两者差距在20~24岁组最小为1.36岁，70~74岁组最大为2.24岁。健康期望寿命损失率随着年龄的上升而上升，<65岁女性高于男性，≥65岁则相反。 
结论： 上海市期望寿命已达世界领先水平，但健康寿命损失较大，需要在降低死亡率的基础上进一步提高寿命质量，尤其是女性和≥65岁男性是重点关注人群。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200417-00591
PMID: 34814500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2021 Jun 10;42(6):1024-1029. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200907-01133.

[Determinants of disability free life expectancy in Chinese elderly: based on 
Multi-states Markov model].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Zhan YY(1), Han YF(1), Fang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Aging and Health Research, School of Public Health, Xiamen 
University, Xiamen 361000, China.

objective: To understand and quantify the main influencing factors related to 
disability free life expectancy (DFLE) among Chinese elderly. Methods: Using 
publicly available data from the Chinese Longitudinal Healthy Longevity Survey 
(2011-2018), we fitted multi-states Markov model and microsimulation to estimate 
DFLE at age 65, life expectancy (LE) at age 65 and proportion of DFLE to LE 
(DFLE/LE) at age 65. We calculated 95%CI by Bootstrap. Result: DFLE of the 
Chinese elderly aged 65 was 14.27 (95%CI: 13.85-14.74) years, higher in female 
than male and higher in elderly with higher economic status. DFLE/LE at age 65 
was 86.33% (95%CI: 85.52%-87.18%), higher in male than female and rural than 
urban. The risk factors of DFLE include not undergoing physical examination, 
inadequate fruit/vegetable intake, smoking, and feeling stress, leading to 0.74, 
0.41, 0.62, 0.12 years of DFLE lost for male, and 0.82, 0.42, 0.19, 0.20 years 
of DFLE lost for female, respectively. Eliminating these risk factors can 
improve DFLE at age 65 by 1.73 years for male and 1.45 years for female. 
Conclusions: Policies targeting male elderly and the elderly with lower economic 
status, and measures promoting physical examination and adequate fruit/vegetable 
intake, relieving stress and banning smoking can substantially improve DFLE of 
Chinese elderly.

Publisher: 目的： 了解我国老年人无失能期望寿命（DFLE）现状及其影响因素和影响程度。 方法： 
利用中国老年人口健康长寿调查研究2011-2018年数据，采用多状态Markov模型和微观仿真法计算我国≥65岁老年人的期望寿命（LE）、DFLE、DFLE占比（DFLE/LE）及危险因素所致的DFLE损失，利用Bootstrap法估计95%CI。 
结果： 
我国≥65岁老年人DFLE为14.27（95%CI：13.85~14.74）年，女性高于男性，经济状况较好者高于经济状况较差者；DFLE/LE为86.33%（95%CI：85.52%~87.18%），男性高于女性，农村高于城镇。未定期体检、蔬菜水果摄入不足、吸烟和压力分别造成男性0.74、0.41、0.62、0.12年和女性0.82、0.42、0.19、0.20年的DFLE损失。消除以上4种危险因素，可使我国男女性老年人的DFLE分别增长1.73年和1.45年。 
结论： 
提高我国老年人DFLE应重点关注男性、经济状况较差的人群。促进老年人定期体检和足量的蔬菜水果摄入、禁烟、缓解老年人压力等措施可提高我国老年人的DFLE。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200907-01133
PMID: 34814501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2021 Jul 10;42(7):1225-1230. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200908-01139.

[Disease burden of breast cancer in women in China, 1990-2017].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Liu W(1), Wang LJ(1), Qi JL(1), Liu JM(1), You JL(1), Lin L(1), Yin P(1), Zhou 
MG(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vital Registration and Death Cause Surveillance, National Center 
for Chronic and Non-communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Chinese Center 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, China.
(2)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China.

Objective: To analyze the trend of the incidence, mortality and disease burden 
of breast cancer in women in China during 1990-2017. Methods: Based on the 
estimation of data in China from the Global Burden of Disease 2017 (GBD2017), 
the incidence,mortality, disability- adjusted life years (DALY), years of life 
lost (YLL), and years lived with disability (YLD) on breast cancer for women in 
China during 1990-2017 were standardized by the world standard population used 
for GBD2017. The GBD study applied the attributable burden formula to estimate 
the attributable deaths by five risk factors of breast cancer, including alcohol 
use, high body mass index (BMI), high fasting plasma glucose, low physical 
activity and tobacco smoking. The incidence, mortality, attributable deaths and 
the disease burden due to breast cancer in women in China were analyzed. 
Results: In 2017, a total of 357.6 thousand female breast cancer cases, 
including 84.8 thousand deaths, were reported in China, with the 
age-standardized incidence rate of 35.62/100 000, which increased by 286.18%, 
114.14% and 88.77% respectively compared with 1990. The age-standardized 
mortality rate decreased from 8.57/100 000 in 1990 to 7.84 /100 000 in 2007, 
then increased to 8.71 /100 000 in 2015, and then decreased to 8.47/100 000 in 
2017. The mortality of breast cancer increased with age in 1990 and 2017. From 
1990 to 2017, the trend of standardized DALY rate and standardized YLL rate were 
the same as that of standardized mortality, while the standardized YLD rate and 
the proportion of YLD in DALY increased year by year. In 2017, the standardized 
DALY rate, standardized YLL rate and standardized YLD rate of breast cancer were 
253.00/100 000, 228.96/100 000, and 24.05/100 000, respectively. Compared with 
1990, the change rates were -6.88% and -11.73% and 95.85% respectively. The 
proportion of breast cancer deaths attributable to high BMI increased 
significantly by 165.76%, from 5.49% in 1990 to 14.59% in 2017. The proportion 
of breast cancer deaths attributable to alcohol use and high fasting blood 
glucose increased; and the proportion of breast cancer deaths attributed to low 
physical activity and smoking remained stable. In 2017, the three provinces with 
the highest age-standardized mortality rate of female breast cancer were 
Hongkong (9.93/100 000), Guangxi (9.52/100 000) and Liaoning (9.49/100 000). 
Compared with 1990, the age-standardized mortality of 19 provinces decreased, 
and Beijing (-27.17%), Macao (-26.06%) and Jilin (-23.89%) had the fastest 
decrease. The two provinces with the highest growth rates were Hebei (28.85%) 
and Henan (24.34%). Conclusions: The disease burden of female breast cancer in 
China increased during 1990-2017. Therefore it is necessary to strengthen the 
prevention and treatment of breast cancer.

Publisher: 目的： 分析1990-2017年我国女性乳腺癌发病、死亡及其疾病负担的变化趋势。 方法： 
利用2017年全球疾病负担（GBD）中国分省研究结果，采用GBD2017世界标准人口对发病率、死亡率、伤残调整寿命年（DALY）率、过早死亡损失寿命年（YLL）率和伤残损失寿命年（YLD）率进行标化，采用归因负担公式来估计饮酒、高BMI、高FPG、低体力活动和吸烟这5个乳腺癌危险因素的归因死亡数。分析1990-2017年我国女性乳腺癌发病、死亡及其造成的疾病负担及归因死亡数的变化情况。 
结果： 
2017年中国女性乳腺癌发病人数、死亡人数和标化发病率分别为35.76万、8.48万和35.62/10万，较1990年分别增长了286.18%、114.14%和88.77%。标化死亡率从1990年的8.57/10万逐年降至2007年的7.84/10万然后又逐年升至2015年的8.71/10万，而后又下降至2017年的8.47/10万。1990年与2017年中国女性乳腺癌的死亡率随年龄增加而上升，≥80岁最高。1990-2017年DALY标化率和YLL标化率的变化趋势与标化死亡率相同，而YLD标化率及YLD占DALY比例则是逐年递增。2017年乳腺癌DALY标化率、YLL标化率和YLD标化率分别为253.00/10万、228.96/10万和24.05/10万，与1990年相比各自变化率分别为-6.88%、-11.73%和95.85%。与1990年相比，2017年我国可归因于高BMI的乳腺癌死亡比例增加了165.76%，从5.49%增至14.59%；可归因于饮酒和高FPG的乳腺癌死亡比例有所增加；可归因于低体力活动和吸烟的乳腺癌死亡比例基本保持稳定。2017年我国女性乳腺癌标化死亡率最高的3个省份分别为香港特别行政区（9.93/10万）、广西壮族自治区（9.52/10万）和辽宁省（9.49/10万）；与1990年相比有19个省份的标化死亡率出现下降，降低率最高的3个省份为北京市（-27.17%）、澳门特别行政区（-26.06%）和吉林省（-23.89%）；增长率最高的2个省份是河北省（28.85%）和河南省（24.34%）。 
结论： 我国女性乳腺癌的疾病负担在1990-2017年间不断加重，需要不断加强乳腺癌的防治工作。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200908-01139
PMID: 34814535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2021 Aug 10;42(8):1420-1428. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200825-01095.

[Analysis on all-cause mortality rate and life expectancy in China, 2005-2018].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Wang W(1), Yin P(1), Wang LJ(1), Liu YN(1), Liu JM(1), Qi JL(1), You JL(1), Lin 
L(1), Zhou MG(1).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Non-communicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China.

Objective: To understand the geographical variations and temporal trends of 
all-cause mortality rate and life expectancy in China at national and 
subnational levels during 2005-2018. Methods: Using data from National 
Cause-of-death Reporting System, China National Maternal and Child Health 
Surveillance System, Under-reporting Surveys, and related social determinants 
covariates, we estimated all-cause mortality rate and life expectancy at 
national and subnational levels in China during 2005-2018. We depicted the 
geographical variations and temporal trends between provinces on mortality rate 
and life expectancy. We then decomposed changes in national and subnational 
deaths into three explanatory components: change due to age-specific mortality 
rate, change due to the population structure by age, and change due to growth of 
the total population. Results: In 2018, it was estimated that there were 10 482 
297 total deaths (95%CI: 9 723 233-11 466 875 deaths) in China, with 6 113 926 
men (95%CI: 5 773 158-6 572 407 men) and 4 368 241 women (95%CI: 3 950 075-4 894 
468 women). The all-cause mortality rate was 755.54 per 100 000 (95%CI: 701.49 
per 100 000-825.78 per 100 000), with 861.78 per 100 000 (95%CI: 813.75 per 100 
000-926.40 per 100 000) in men and 642.73 per 100 000 (95%CI: 581.20 per 100 
000-720.15 per 100 000) in women, while age-standardized all-cause mortality 
rate was 652.27 per 100 000 (95%CI: 599.22 per 100 000-721.71 per 100 000), with 
806.38 per 100 000 (95%CI: 755.10 per 100 000-874.31 per 100 000) in men and 
503.37 per 100 000 (95%CI: 450.50 per 100 000-572.01 per 100 000) in women. In 
2018, it was estimated that the life expectancy in the whole country was 77.15 
years old (95%CI: 75.92-78.11 years old), with 74.81 (95%CI: 73.57-75.76) in men 
and 79.87 (95%CI: 78.61-80.91) in women. Developed areas as Shanghai, Beijing, 
Jiangsu, and Zhejiang owned comparatively higher life expectancy, while 
undeveloped areas like Tibet, Guizhou, Xinjiang, and Qinghai showed lower 
levels. During 2005-2018, there was a 29.87% increase in total deaths at the 
national level, with 27.74% in men and 31.29% in women. Changes due to 
age-specific mortality rate, the population structure by age, and the growth of 
the total population constituted -35.74%, 7.34%, and 58.28% of the total 
increase, respectively. Conclusions: From 2005 to 2018, the all-cause mortality 
rate increased while the age-standardized mortality rate decreased substantially 
among Chinese residents. Change due to population structure by age was the 
dominant driver. An upward trend of life expectancy was observed in all 
provinces, with marked differences between the provinces.

Publisher: 目的： 掌握2005-2018年全国及分省死亡率及期望寿命现状分布及变化情况。 方法： 
利用全国人口死亡信息登记管理系统死因监测数据、全国妇幼卫生监测数据、全国死因监测漏报调查数据及社会决定因素相关协变量数据，对2005-2018年全国及分省居民死亡率及期望寿命进行估计，描述全国及分省死亡率和期望寿命差异及变化趋势。采用死亡数变化分解方法，分析年龄别死亡率、人口老龄化及人口增长原因对全国及分省总死亡数变化的贡献程度。 
结果： 2018年，我国居民估计死亡数为10 482 297（95%CI：9 723 233~11 466 875）人，男性6 113 926（95%CI：5 
773 158~6 572 407）人，女性4 368 241（95%CI：3 950 075~4 894 
468）人；死亡率为755.54/10万（95%CI：701.49/10万~825.78/10万），男性861.78/10万（95%CI：813.75/10万~926.40/10万），女性642.73/10万（95%CI：581.20/10万~720.15/10万）；标化死亡率为652.27/10万（95%CI：599.22/10万~721.71/10万），男性806.38/10万（95%CI：755.10/10万~874.31/10万），女性503.37/10万（95%CI：450.50/10万~572.01/10万）。2018年，全国人均期望寿命为77.15（95%CI：75.92~78.11）岁，男性74.81（95%CI：73.57~75.76）岁，女性79.87（95%CI：78.61~80.91）岁。期望寿命较高的省份有上海市、北京市、江苏省、浙江省等发达省份，较低的有西藏自治区、贵州省、新疆维吾尔自治区和青海省等欠发达省份。2005-2018年，全国死亡数共增长29.87%，男性27.74%，女性31.29%；其中，年龄别死亡率原因占比-35.74%，人口增长原因占比7.34%，人口老龄化原因占比58.28%。 
结论： 2005-2018年，我国居民估计死亡率呈上升趋势，标化死亡率呈下降趋势，人口老龄化为其主要原因。期望寿命涨幅较明显，但省际间差异大。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200825-01095
PMID: 34814563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2021 Sep 10;42(9):1677-1682. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200717-00955.

[Development and application of health indicators of life expectancy].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Sun QF(1), Lyu J(1), Li LM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, Beijing 100191, China.

Health indicators of life expectancy are widely used to evaluate the overall 
health level of population or the disease burden in population. With the 
increase of the cohorts to which long-term follow-ups were made, more studies 
have explored the influencing factors of such indicators. This paper summarizes 
the commonly used indicators and their definitions, the basic principles of 
calculation, and the application of such indicators in the epidemiological 
studies of chronic diseases.

Publisher: 
期望寿命相关指标是目前应用最为广泛的衡量人群总体健康水平或疾病负担的指标之一。随着长期随访的人群队列的增加，越来越多的研究开始探索此类指标的影响因素。本文将就期望寿命相关研究中较常采用的指标及其定义、计算的基本原理和在慢性病流行病学研究中的应用实例进行综述。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200717-00955
PMID: 34814600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2021 Oct 10;42(10):1797-1803. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20201208-01390.

[Trends of a burden on atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and its related 
risk factors in China, 1990 to 2019].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Zhang MN(1), Li MT(1), Zhi XY(1), Zhu H(1), Zhang X(1), Xie J(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Tianjin Medical University/Tianjin Key Laboratory of 
Environment, Nutrition and Public Health/Center for International Collaborative 
Research on Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin 300070, China.

Objective: To quantitatively analyze the effects of population aging and other 
risk factors on the burden of atherosclerosis cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) in 
China from 1990 to 2019. Methods: Disability adjusted life years (DALY) and 
age-standardized rates obtained from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019 
(GBD2019) were used to describe the temporal trend of a burden on ASCVD. And a 
decomposition method established by Gupta was applied to quantify the burden 
related to population growth, aging, age-specific prevalence, and the severity 
of the disease. Results: In 2019, 61.00% of the burden of cardiovascular disease 
in China was caused by ASCVD. The DALY of ischemic heart disease increased by 
133.66% compared with that in 1990, with 29.57% of the increase attributed to 
population growth, 108.74% due to population aging, and 8.87% due to the rise of 
age-specific prevalence and -13.53% benefited from changes in disease severity. 
The DALY of ischemic stroke increased by 138.64% compared with 1990, and the 
proportions attributable to the above four parts were 30.95%, 123.38%, 55.80%, 
and -71.49%, respectively. Hypertension remained the leading risk factor for 
ASCVD in 2019, followed by high LDL cholesterol. The age-standardized DALY rate 
attributable to drinking had the most significant increase (486.01%) from 1990, 
with an average annual growth of 10.93%. Conclusions: Aging population seems 
responsible for the main reason for the considerable increase in the burden of 
ASCVD in China. Still, the adverse trends of other avoidable risk factors, 
especially metabolic risk factors, can not be ignored.

Publisher: 目的： 量化分析1990-2019年我国动脉粥样硬化心血管病（ASCVD）疾病负担及其主要危险因素影响的变化趋势。 方法： 
利用2019年全球疾病负担（GBD2019）研究结果，以伤残调整寿命年（DALY）及其年龄标准化率为指标，分析1990-2019年我国ASCVD疾病负担和危险因素归因疾病负担的变化情况，并采用Gupta建立的分解法对人口增长、老龄化、年龄别患病率和疾病严重程度所致的DALY变化进行了量化分析。 
结果： 
2019年我国61.00%的心血管病疾病负担由ASCVD所致，缺血性心脏病的DALY较1990年增长了133.66%，其中29.57%可归因于人口增长、108.74%归因于人口老龄化、8.87%归因于年龄别患病率的增加、-13.53%归因于疾病严重程度；缺血性卒中的DALY较1990年增长了138.64%，归因于上述4部分的变化率依次为30.95%、123.38%、55.80%和-71.49%。2019年高血压依然是ASCVD首要危险因素，其次是高LDL-C，归因于饮酒的年龄标准化DALY率较1990年增幅最大（486.01%），年均增长10.93%。 
结论： 
1990-2019年，人口老龄化是我国ASCVD疾病负担大幅增长最主要的原因，而其他可改变危险因素的不利趋势，特别是代谢性危险因素的持续流行同样不容忽视。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20201208-01390
PMID: 34814614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Proc Biol Sci. 2021 Nov 24;288(1963):20211787. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2021.1787.
Epub  2021 Nov 24.

Fitness benefits of dietary restriction.

Sultanova Z(1), Ivimey-Cook ER(1), Chapman T(1), Maklakov AA(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich Research 
Park, Norwich NR4 7TU, UK.

Dietary restriction (DR) improves survival across a wide range of taxa yet 
remains poorly understood. The key unresolved question is whether this 
evolutionarily conserved response to temporary lack of food is adaptive. Recent 
work suggests that early-life DR reduces survival and reproduction when 
nutrients subsequently become plentiful, thereby challenging adaptive 
explanations. A new hypothesis maintains that increased survival under DR 
results from reduced costs of overfeeding. We tested the adaptive value of DR 
response in an outbred population of Drosophila melanogaster fruit flies. We 
found that DR females did not suffer from reduced survival upon subsequent 
re-feeding and had increased reproduction and mating success compared to their 
continuously fully fed (FF) counterparts. The increase in post-DR reproductive 
performance was of sufficient magnitude that females experiencing early-life DR 
had the same total fecundity as continuously FF individuals. Our results suggest 
that the DR response is adaptive and increases fitness when temporary food 
shortages cease.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2021.1787
PMCID: PMC8611328
PMID: 34814748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Appl Nurs Res. 2021 Dec;62:151509. doi: 10.1016/j.apnr.2021.151509. Epub
2021  Oct 6.

Health-care professionals coping responses to the COVID-19 pandemic in Pakistan.

Zaman S(1), Irfan S(2), Khalid S(3), Zeb Khattak A(4), Hussain B(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, International Islamic University Islamabad, 
Pakistan. Electronic address: sabir.zaman@iiu.edu.pk.
(2)Department of Psychology, Foundation University Islamabad, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Social & Behavioral Sciences, National University of Medical 
Sciences Rawalpindi, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Psychology, International Islamic University Islamabad, 
Pakistan.
(5)Department of Psychology and Human Devlopment, Karakoram International 
University, Gilgit-Baltistan, Pakistan.

BACKGROUND: In the initial stage of infectious diseases such as COVID-19 creates 
a prodigious uncertainty not only in general population but also in health care 
professionals. This often leads to emotional distress in general public and 
particularly in health care professionals.
OBJECTIVES: During COVID-19 pandemic in Pakistan, the health care professionals 
experienced unusual stressors. This study aimed to examine the coping responses, 
optimism, pessimism and psychiatric morbidity of health professionals serving 
the COVID-19 patients.
PARTICIPANTS: Total 87, health care professionals take part in study, whom 36 
were physicians and 51 nursing staff. Among these 44 were male, and 43 were 
female.
METHOD: Researchers used cross sectional research design in this study. 
Physicians and nurses completed self-reported questionnaires. Participants 
provided demographics data and recorded their responses to self-administered 
questionnaires. Researchers administered Brief coping orientation to problems 
experiences (COPE) for assessing the coping strategies, while they assessed 
psychiatric morbidity through general health questionnaires. Similarly, future 
expectancy of health care professional was assessed by using life orientation 
scale. Participants were recruited from quarantine words in two federal 
government hospitals providing health care services to COVID-19 patients in 
Pakistan.
RESULT: The result showed a significant relationship in optimism and problem 
focus coping style and avoidance coping style. Moreover, male health 
professionals score high on optimism as compared to female health professionals. 
While, avoidance coping style were seen higher in female health professional as 
compare to male. The result revealed that optimism and psychiatric morbidity 
were significantly positive in health professionals having problem focus and 
avoidance coping style.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apnr.2021.151509
PMCID: PMC8493781
PMID: 34815005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No conflict of interest.


796. Sci Rep. 2021 Nov 23;11(1):22789. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-02319-7.

A nationwide web-based survey of oncologic surgeons to clarify the current 
status of preoperative assessment for elderly cancer surgery patients in Japan.

Inoue D(1), Yamamoto M(1), Arima H(2), Tamura K(3), Yoshida Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Fukui, 23-3 
Matsuoka-Shimoaizuki, Eiheiji-cho, Yoshida-gun, Fukui, 910-1193, Japan.
(2)Department of Preventive Medicine and Public Health, Fukuoka University, 
7-45-1 Nanakuma, Jhonan-ku, Fukuoka, Fukuoka, Japan.
(3)Emeritus Professor, Faculty of Medicine, Fukuoka University, 7-45-1 Nanakuma, 
Jhonan-ku, Fukuoka, Fukuoka, Japan.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Fukui, 23-3 
Matsuoka-Shimoaizuki, Eiheiji-cho, Yoshida-gun, Fukui, 910-1193, Japan. 
yyoshida@u-fukui.ac.jp.

Erratum in
    Sci Rep. 2023 Jun 15;13(1):9705.

Elderly cancer patients requiring surgical treatment are increasing, and the 
deterioration of quality of life and shortening of healthy life expectancy due 
to postoperative complications represent major problems. This study investigated 
the current status of medical treatment, including perioperative evaluations, 
for elderly cancer patients requiring surgical treatment at cancer treatment 
facilities nationwide. A total of 436 cancer care facilities around Japan were 
invited to participate in this web-based survey regarding management of cancer 
patients ≥ 65 years old who had undergone surgical treatment in 2018. A total of 
919 department heads from 245 facilities agreed to participate. Although most 
respondents answered that performance status, preoperative examinations, and 
comorbidities were important when deciding on a treatment plan, age, Geriatric 
Assessment (GA), and guidelines were "not important" for > 10% of all 
respondents. GA was familiar to 195 department heads (21%), and awareness of GA 
was significantly lower among respondents from medical education institutions 
than the other types of hospitals (18.5% vs 26.3%; P = 0.006). This large survey 
revealed that the use of GA is not widespread, and its awareness in medical 
education institutions remains low. We believe that accumulating evidence of 
geriatric oncology surgery is an urgent issue in Japan.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-02319-7
PMCID: PMC8611021
PMID: 34815510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


797. Respir Med Case Rep. 2021 Nov 10;34:101553. doi: 10.1016/j.rmcr.2021.101553.
 eCollection 2021.

Delayed hepatic necrosis in a cystic fibrosis patient taking 
Elexacaftor/Tezacaftor/Ivacaftor (Kaftrio).

Salehi M(1), Iqbal M(1), Dube A(2), AlJoudeh A(3), Edenborough F(1).

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Teaching Hospitals, Adult Cystic Fibrosis Centre, Sheffield, UK.
(2)Sheffield Teaching Hospitals, Department of Histopathology, Sheffield, UK.
(3)Sheffield Teaching Hospitals, Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, 
Sheffield, UK.

The introduction of Cystic Fibrosis Trans Regulatory modulator (CFTRm) drugs has 
seen a transformation in Cystic Fibrosis (CF) treatment. This has led to a 
significant improvement in lung function and quality of life with the potential 
for a real impact on life expectancy. Transient mild to moderate hepatic 
transaminitis is a well-known side effect of CFTRm drugs, which often improves 
on cessation and may not recur following the re-institution of the drug. We 
describe a case of transaminitis developing nine months after the initiation of 
Kaftrio, which progressed to liver necrosis despite stopping Kaftrio and took 
many months to resolve. The patient had experienced significant improvement in 
lung function and overall health while on Kaftrio and deteriorated when it was 
stopped. He was keen to restart; however, Kaftrio was not reinstated due to the 
potential risk of acute liver failure.

© 2021 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmcr.2021.101553
PMCID: PMC8593462
PMID: 34815934

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests to 
declare.


798. Front Glob Womens Health. 2021 Jun 21;2:690870. doi:
10.3389/fgwh.2021.690870.  eCollection 2021.

A Competing Risk Analysis of Women Dying of Maternal, Infectious, or 
Non-Communicable Causes in the Kintampo Area of Ghana.

Abubakari SW(1), Badasu DM(2), Apraku EA(1), Amenga-Etego S(1), Asante KP(1), 
Bawah AA(2), Owusu-Agyei S(3).

Author information:
(1)Kintampo Health Research Center, Research and Development Division, Ghana 
Health Service, Kintampo, Ghana.
(2)Regional Institute for Population Studies, University of Ghana, Accra, Ghana.
(3)Institute of Health Research, University of Health & Allied Sciences, Hohoe, 
Ghana.

Background: Maternal, infectious, and non-communicable causes of death 
combinedly are a major health problem for women of reproductive age (WRA) in 
sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Little is known about the relative risks of each of 
these causes of death in their combined form and their demographic impacts. The 
focus of studies on WRA has been on maternal health. The evolving demographic 
and health transitions in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) suggest a 
need for a comprehensive approach to resolve health challenges of women beyond 
maternal causes. Methods: Deaths and person-years of exposure (PYE) were 
calculated by age for WRA within 15-49 years of age in the Kintampo Health and 
Demographic Surveillance System (KHDSS) area from January 2005 to December 2014. 
Causes of death were diagnosed using a standard verbal autopsy questionnaire and 
the 10th Revision of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases 
and Related Health Problems (ICD-10). Identified causes of death were 
categorized into three broad areas, namely, maternal, infectious, and 
non-communicable diseases. Multiple decrements and associated single decrement 
life table methods were used. Results: Averting any of the causes of death was 
seen to lead to improved life expectancy, but eliminating infectious causes of 
death leads to the highest number of years gained. Infectious causes of death 
affected all ages and the gains in life expectancy, assuming that these causes 
were eliminated, diminished with increasing age. The oldest age group, 45-49, 
had the greatest gain in reproductive-aged life expectancy (RALE) if maternal 
mortality was eliminated. Discussion: This study demonstrated the existence of a 
triple burden. Infectious causes of death are persistently high while deaths 
from non-communicable causes are rising and the level of maternal mortality is 
still unacceptably high. It recommends that attention should be given to all the 
causes of death among WRA.

Copyright © 2021 Abubakari, Badasu, Apraku, Amenga-Etego, Asante, Bawah and 
Owusu-Agyei.

DOI: 10.3389/fgwh.2021.690870
PMCID: PMC8593997
PMID: 34816233

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


799. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2022 Mar;24(3):511-521. doi: 10.1111/dom.14605. Epub
2021  Dec 1.

Outcomes of hybrid closed-loop insulin delivery activated 24/7 versus evening 
and night in free-living prepubertal children with type 1 diabetes: A 
multicentre, randomized clinical trial.

Renard E(1)(2)(3), Tubiana-Rufi N(4), Bonnemaison E(5), Coutant R(6), Dalla-Vale 
F(7), Bismuth E(4), Faure N(5), Bouhours-Nouet N(6), Farret A(1)(3), Storey 
C(4), Donzeau A(6), Poidvin A(4), Amsellem-Jager J(6), Place J(3), Breton MD(8); 
Free-life Kid AP Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes, Nutrition, Montpellier University 
Hospital, Montpellier, France.
(2)INSERM Clinical Investigation Centre 1411, Montpellier, France.
(3)Institute of Functional Genomics, University of Montpellier, CNRS, INSERM, 
Montpellier, France.
(4)Department of Pediatric Endocrinology and Diabetology, Robert Debré 
University Hospital, University of Paris, Paris, France.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Tours University Hospital, Tours, France.
(6)Department of Pediatric Endocrinology and Diabetology, Angers University 
Hospital, Angers, France.
(7)Center for Diabetes Technology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, 
Virginia, USA.
(8)Department of Pediatrics, Montpellier University Hospital, Montpellier, 
France.

AIM: To assess the safety and efficacy of hybrid closed-loop (HCL) insulin 
delivery 24/7 versus only evening and night (E/N), and on extended 24/7 use, in 
free-living children with type 1 diabetes.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Prepubertal children (n = 122; 49 females/73 males; age, 
8.6 ± 1.6 years; diabetes duration, 5.2 ± 2.3 years; insulin pump use, 
4.6 ± 2.5 years; HbA1c 7.7% ± 0.7%/61 ± 5 mmol/mol) from four centres were 
randomized for 24/7 versus E/N activation of the Tandem Control-IQ system for 
18 weeks. Afterwards, all children used the activated system 24/7 for 18 more 
weeks. The primary outcome was the percentage of time spent in the 70-180 mg/dL 
glucose range (TIR).
RESULTS: HCL was active 94.1% and 51.1% of the time in the 24/7 and E/N modes, 
respectively. TIR from baseline increased more in the 24/7 versus the E/N mode 
(52.9% ± 9.5% to 67.3% ± 5.6% [+14.4%, 95% CI 12.4%-16.7%] vs. 55.1% ± 10.8% to 
64.7% ± 7.0% [+9.6%, 95% CI 7.4%-11.6%]; P = .001). Mean percentage time below 
range was similarly reduced, from 4.2% and 4.6% to 2.7%, and the mean percentage 
time above range decreased more in the 24/7 mode (41.9% to 30.0% [-11.9%, 95% CI 
9.7%-14.6%] vs. 39.8% to 32.6% [-7.2%, 95% CI 5.0%-9.9%]; P = .007). TIR 
increased through the whole range of baseline levels and always more with 24/7 
use. The results were maintained during the extension phase in those initially 
on 24/7 use and improved in those with initial E/N use up to those with 24/7 
use. Neither ketoacidosis nor severe hypoglycaemia occurred.
CONCLUSIONS: The current study shows the safety and efficacy of the Tandem 
Control-IQ system in free-living children with type 1 diabetes for both E/N and 
24/7 use; 24/7 use shows better outcomes, sustained for up to 36 weeks with no 
safety issues.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/dom.14605
PMID: 34816597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Br J Hosp Med (Lond). 2021 Nov 2;82(11):1-9. doi: 10.12968/hmed.2020.0560.
Epub  2021 Nov 23.

Hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia: an overview from an ear, nose and throat 
perspective.

Green RJ(1), Swift AC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Ninewells Hospital, Dundee, UK.
(2)Liverpool Head and Neck Centre, Liverpool University Hospitals NHS Foundation 
Trust, Liverpool, UK.

Patients with hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia can present with a 
multitude of symptoms caused by telangiectasia and arteriovenous malformations 
in the nose, brain, gastrointestinal tract, liver and spinal cord. Clinicians 
should be aware of the potential diagnosis of hereditary haemorrhagic 
telangiectasia and how to manage these patients both in the acute and chronic 
setting. Identifying these patients and optimising their management can help 
reverse the reduced life expectancy back to that of the normal population. The 
management of these patients is complex and often requires a multidisciplinary 
approach, with difficult discussions to be had around screening for 
arteriovenous malformations and genetic testing. The stepwise management ladder 
can be used in both the medical and surgical strategies; there are multiple 
pharmacological and surgical options available, all with their own side effects 
and risks. Patient education is key to help informed decision making. This 
article outlines the clinical characteristics of the disease and management 
options available.

DOI: 10.12968/hmed.2020.0560
PMID: 34817255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. JAMA Cardiol. 2022 Feb 1;7(2):140-148. doi: 10.1001/jamacardio.2021.4836.

Economic Outcomes of Rehabilitation Therapy in Older Patients With Acute Heart 
Failure in the REHAB-HF Trial: A Secondary Analysis of a Randomized Clinical 
Trial.

Chew DS(1), Li Y(1), Zeitouni M(1)(2), Whellan DJ(3), Kitzman D(4), Mentz 
RJ(1)(2), Duncan P(5), Pastva AM(6), Reeves GR(7), Nelson MB(8), Chen H(9), Reed 
SD(1)(10).

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, 
North Carolina.
(2)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Duke University School of 
Medicine, Durham, North Carolina.
(3)Department of Medicine, Sidney Kimmel Medical College at Thomas Jefferson 
University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Sections on Cardiovascular Medicine and 
Geriatrics, Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
(5)Department of Neurology, Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North 
Carolina.
(6)Doctor of Physical Therapy Division, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Duke 
University School of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina.
(7)Novant Health Heart and Vascular Institute, Charlotte, North Carolina.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine, Section on Cardiovascular Medicine, Wake 
Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
(9)Department of Biostatistics and Data Science, Wake Forest School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
(10)Department of Population Health Sciences, Duke University School of 
Medicine, Durham, North Carolina.

Comment in
    JAMA Cardiol. 2022 Feb 1;7(2):148-149.

IMPORTANCE: In the Rehabilitation Therapy in Older Acute Heart Failure Patients 
(REHAB-HF) trial, a novel 12-week rehabilitation intervention demonstrated 
significant improvements in validated measures of physical function, quality of 
life, and depression, but no significant reductions in rehospitalizations or 
mortality compared with a control condition during the 6-month follow up. The 
economic implications of these results are important given the increasing 
pressures for cost containment in health care.
OBJECTIVE: To report the economic outcomes of the REHAB-HF trial and estimate 
the potential cost-effectiveness of the intervention.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS: The multicenter REHAB-HF trial randomized 349 
patients 60 years or older who were hospitalized for acute decompensated heart 
failure to rehabilitation intervention or a control group; patients were 
enrolled from September 17, 2014, through September 19, 2019. For this 
preplanned secondary analysis of the economic outcomes, data on medical resource 
use and quality of life (via the 5-level EuroQol 5-Dimension scores converted to 
health utilities) were collected. Medical resource use and medication costs were 
estimated using 2019 US Medicare payments and the Federal Supply Schedule, 
respectively. Cost-effectiveness was estimated using the validated Tools for 
