

878. Value Health. 2021 Dec;24(12):1763-1772. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2021.06.001.
Epub  2021 Aug 6.

Cost-Effectiveness of Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Prostate Cancer Screening: A 
Microsimulation Study.

Hao S(1), Karlsson A(1), Heintz E(2), Elfström KM(3), Nordström T(4), Clements 
M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden; Department of Clinical Sciences, Danderyd Hospital, Danderyd, 
Sweden.
(5)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: mark.clements@ki.se.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to assess the cost-effectiveness of magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) with combinations of targeted biopsy (TBx) and 
systematic biopsy (SBx) for early prostate cancer detection in Sweden.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was conducted from a lifetime societal 
perspective using a microsimulation model. Five strategies included no screening 
and quadrennial screening for men aged 55 to 69 years using SBx alone, TBx on 
positive MRI (MRI + TBx), combined TBx/SBx on positive MRI (MRI + TBx/SBx), and 
SBx on negative MRI with TBx/SBx on positive MRI (MRI - SBx, MRI + TBx/SBx). 
Test characteristics were based on a recent Cochrane review. We predicted the 
number of biopsies, costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: The screening strategies were classified in Sweden as high costs per 
QALY gained compared with no screening. Using MRI + TBx and MRI + TBx/SBx 
reduced the number of biopsy episodes across a lifetime by approximately 40% 
compared with SBx alone. Both strategies showed strong dominance over SBx alone 
and MRI - SBx, MRI + TBx. Compared with MRI + TBx, the MRI + TBx/SBx strategy 
had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of more than €200 000 per QALY 
gained, which was classified in Sweden as a very high cost. These predictions 
were robust in the probabilistic sensitivity analysis. Limitations included 
generalizability of the model assumptions and uncertainty regarding the 
health-state values and study heterogeneity from the Cochrane review.
CONCLUSIONS: MRI + TBx and MRI + TBx/SBx showed strong dominance over 
alternative screening strategies. MRI + TBx resulted in similar or marginally 
lower gains in QALYs and lower costs than MRI + TBx/SBx. MRI + TBx was 
considered the optimal choice among the screening strategies.

Copyright © 2021 ISPOR–The Professional Society for Health Economics and 
Outcomes Research. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2021.06.001
PMID: 34838274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2022 Jun;34(6):355-362. doi: 
10.1016/j.clon.2021.11.005. Epub 2021 Nov 24.

Limited Impact of Breast Cancer and Non-breast Malignancies on Survival in Older 
Patients with Early-Stage Breast Cancer: Results of a Large, Single-Centre, 
Population-Based Study.

Jobsen JJ(1), van der Palen J(2), Siemerink E(3), Struikmans H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Medisch Spectrum Twente, Enschede, the 
Netherlands; Department of Radiation Oncology, Medisch Spectrum Twente, 
Enschede, the Netherlands; Breast Clinic Oost-Nederland, Ziekenhuis Groep 
Twente, Hengelo, the Netherlands. Electronic address: jjjobsen@hetnet.nl.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Medisch Spectrum Twente, Enschede, the 
Netherlands; Department of Research Methodology, Measurement, and Data Analysis, 
Faculty of Behavioral Science, University of Twente, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Ziekenhuis Groep Twente, Hengelo, the 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, 
the Netherlands.

AIMS: To analyse the disease-free survival and overall survival in older adults 
with breast cancer after breast-conserving therapy, focusing on the relevance of 
non-breast malignancy (NBM) with respect to survival rates.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Analyses were based on 1205 women aged 65 years and older 
with breast cancer treated with breast-conserving therapy between 1999 and 2015. 
Patients were divided into three age categories: 65-70, 71-75 and >75 years. 
Multivariate survival analysis was carried out using Cox regression analysis.
RESULTS: The two youngest age categories showed excellent results, with a 
12-year disease-free survival of 84.6 and 86.3%, respectively. We noted a 17.2% 
incidence of NBM, particularly for colon cancer and lung cancer. Most (72.9%) 
occurred after a diagnosis of breast cancer. Of those 72.9%, about 50% died as a 
result of NBM within 2 years of the diagnosis of NBM. The overall 12-year 
NBM-specific survival was 92.0%. The 12-year overall survival was 60.0% for all 
and for the three abovementioned age categories was 73.3, 54.4 and 28.4%, 
respectively. The cause of death for all was predominantly 
non-malignancy-related morbidity.
CONCLUSION: The impact of breast cancer on life expectancy was limited, in 
particularly for women aged 65-75 years. The relevance of NBM on survival was 
limited.

Copyright © 2021 The Royal College of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clon.2021.11.005
PMID: 34838396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Radiother Oncol. 2022 Jan;166:203-211. doi: 10.1016/j.radonc.2021.11.017.
Epub  2021 Nov 25.

Postoperative radiotherapy in stage I-III Merkel cell carcinoma.

Levy S(1), Blankenstein SA(2), Grünhagen DJ(3), Jalving M(4), Hamming-Vrieze 
O(5), Been LB(6), Tans L(7), van Akkooi ACJ(2), Tesselaar MET(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrine Oncology, University Medical Center Utrecht, the 
Netherlands; Department of Medical Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: s.levy@umcutrecht.nl.
(2)Department of Surgical Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of General Surgery, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, University Medical Center Groningen, the 
Netherlands.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Surgical Oncology, University Medical Center Groningen, the 
Netherlands.
(7)Department of Radiation Oncology, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(8)Department of Medical Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Postoperative radiotherapy (PORT) is currently recommended for the 
treatment of Merkel cell carcinoma. Nevertheless, deviations occur frequently 
due to the generally elderly and frail patient population. We aimed to evaluate 
the influence of PORT on survival in stage I-III MCC patients treated in the 
Netherlands.
METHODS: Patients were included retrospectively between 2013 and 2018. Fine-Gray 
method was used for cumulative incidence of recurrence and MCC-related death, 
cox regression was performed for overall mortality. Analyses were performed in 
patients with clinical (sentinel node biopsy [SN] not performed) stage I/II 
(c-I/II-MCC), pathologic (SN negative) stage I/II (p-I/II-MCC) and stage III MCC 
(III-MCC), separately. Propensity score matching (PSM) was performed to assess 
confounding by indication.
RESULTS: In total 182 patients were included, 35 had p-I/II-MCC, 69 had 
c-I/II-MCC and 78 had III-MCC. Median follow up time was 53.5 (IQR 33.4-67.4), 
30.5 (13.0-43.6) and 29.3 (19.3-51.0) months, respectively. Multivariable 
analysis showed PORT to be associated with less recurrences and reduced overall 
mortality, but not with MCC-related mortality. In stage III-MCC, extracapsular 
extension (sub-distribution hazard [SDH] 4.09, p = 0.012) and PORT (SDH 0.45, 
p = 0.044) were associated with recurrence, and ≥ 4 positive lymph nodes (SDH 
3.24, p = 0.024) were associated with MCC-related mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: PORT was associated with less recurrences and reduced overall 
mortality in patients with stage I-III MCC, but not with MCC-related mortality. 
Trends in overall survival benefit are likely to be caused by selection bias 
suggesting further refinement of criteria for PORT is warranted, for instance by 
taking life expectancy into account.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.radonc.2021.11.017
PMID: 34838887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


881. Dis Colon Rectum. 2022 May 1;65(5):702-712. doi:
10.1097/DCR.0000000000002056.

Do Cost Limitations of Extended Prophylaxis After Surgery Apply to Ulcerative 
Colitis Patients?

Leeds IL(1), Canner JK, DiBrito SR, Safar B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland.

BACKGROUND: Colorectal surgery patients with ulcerative colitis are at increased 
risk of postoperative venous thromboembolism. Extended prophylaxis for 
thromboembolism prevention has been used in colorectal surgery patients, but it 
has been criticized for its lack of cost-effectiveness. However, the 
cost-effectiveness of extended prophylaxis for postoperative ulcerative colitis 
patients may be unique.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to assess the cost-effectiveness of extended 
prophylaxis in postoperative ulcerative colitis patients.
DESIGN: A decision analysis compared costs and benefits in postoperative 
ulcerative colitis patients with and without extended prophylaxis over a 
lifetime horizon.
SETTING: Assumptions for decision analysis were identified from available 
literature for a typical ulcerative colitis patient's risk of thrombosis, age at 
surgery, type of thrombosis, prophylaxis risk reduction, bleeding complications, 
and mortality.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs ($) and benefits (quality-adjusted life year) 
reflected a societal perspective and were time-discounted at 3%. Costs and 
benefits were combined to produce the main outcome measure, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio ($ per quality-adjusted life year). Multivariable 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis modeled uncertainty in probabilities, costs, 
and disutilities.
RESULTS: Using reference parameters, the individual expected societal total cost 
of care was $957 without and $1775 with prophylaxis (not cost-effective; 
$257,280 per quality-adjusted life year). Preventing a single mortality with 
prophylaxis would cost $5 million (number needed to treat: 6134 individuals). 
Adjusting across a range of scenarios upheld these conclusions 77% of the time. 
With further sensitivity testing, venous thromboembolism cumulative risk (>1.5%) 
and ePpx regimen pricing (<$299) were the 2 parameters most sensitive to 
uncertainty.
LIMITATIONS: Recommendations of decision analysis methodology are limited to 
group decision-making, not an individual risk profile.
CONCLUSION: Routine ePpx in postoperative ulcerative colitis patients is not 
cost-effective. This finding is sensitive to higher-than-average rates of venous 
thromboembolism and low-cost prophylaxis opportunities. See Video Abstract at 
http://links.lww.com/DCR/B818.
SE APLICAN LAS LIMITACIONES DE COSTOS DE LA PROFILAXIS PROLONGADA DESPUS DE LA 
CIRUGA A LOS PACIENTES CON COLITIS ULCEROSA: ANTECEDENTES:Los pacientes de 
cirugía colorrectal con colitis ulcerosa tienen un mayor riesgo de 
tromboembolismo venoso posoperatorio. La profilaxis extendida para la prevención 
de la tromboembolia se ha utilizado en pacientes con cirugía colorrectal, aunque 
ha sido criticada por su falta de rentabilidad. Sin embargo, la rentabilidad de 
la profilaxis prolongada para los pacientes posoperados con colitis ulcerosa 
puede ser aceptable.OBJETIVO:Evaluar la rentabilidad de la profilaxis prolongada 
en pacientes posoperados con colitis ulcerosa.DISEÑO:Un análisis de decisiones 
comparó los costos y beneficios en pacientes posoperados con colitis ulcerosa 
con y sin profilaxis prolongada de por vida.AJUSTE:Los supuestos para el 
análisis de decisiones se identificaron a partir de la literatura disponible 
para el riesgo de trombosis de un paciente con colitis ulcerosa típica, la edad 
al momento de la cirugía, el tipo de trombosis, la reducción del riesgo con 
profilaxis, las complicaciones hemorrágicas y la mortalidad.PRINCIPALES MEDIDAS 
DE RESULTADO:Los costos ($) y los beneficios (año de vida ajustado por calidad) 
reflejaron una perspectiva social y se descontaron en el tiempo al 3%. Los 
costos y los beneficios se combinaron para producir la principal medida de 
resultado, la relación costo-efectividad incremental ($ por año de vida ajustado 
por calidad). El análisis de sensibilidad probabilística multivariable modeló la 
incertidumbre en probabilidades, costos y desutilidades.RESULTADOS:Utilizando 
parámetros de referencia, el costo total de atención social esperado individual 
fue de $957 sin profilaxis y $1775 con profilaxis (no rentable; $257,280 por año 
de vida ajustado por calidad). La prevención de una sola mortalidad con 
profilaxis costaría $5.0 millones (número necesario a tratar: 6.134 personas). 
El ajuste en una variedad de escenarios mantuvo estas conclusiones el 77% de las 
veces. Con más pruebas de sensibilidad, el riesgo acumulado de TEV (>1,5%) y el 
precio del régimen de ePpx (<$299) fueron los dos parámetros más sensibles a la 
incertidumbre.LIMITACIONES:Las recomendaciones de la metodología de análisis de 
decisiones se limitan a la toma de decisiones en grupo, no a un perfil de riesgo 
individual.CONCLUSIÓN:La profilaxis extendida de rutina en pacientes posoperados 
con colitis ulcerosa no es rentable. Este hallazgo es sensible a tasas de TEV 
superiores al promedio y oportunidades de profilaxis de bajo costo. Consulted 
Video Resumen en http://links.lww.com/DCR/B818. (Traducción-Dr. Felipe 
Bellolio).

ANTECEDENTES: Los pacientes de cirugía colorrectal con colitis ulcerosa tienen 
un mayor riesgo de tromboembolismo venoso posoperatorio. La profilaxis extendida 
para la prevención de la tromboembolia se ha utilizado en pacientes con cirugía 
colorrectal, aunque ha sido criticada por su falta de rentabilidad. Sin embargo, 
la rentabilidad de la profilaxis prolongada para los pacientes con colitis 
ulcerosa posoperatoria puede ser única.
OBJETIVO: Evaluar la rentabilidad de la profilaxis prolongada en pacientes con 
colitis ulcerosa posoperatoria.
DISEÑO: Un análisis de decisiones comparó los costos y beneficios en pacientes 
con colitis ulcerosa posoperatoria con y sin profilaxis prolongada durante un 
horizonte de por vida.
AJUSTE: Los supuestos para el análisis de decisiones se identificaron a partir 
de la literatura disponible para el riesgo de trombosis de un paciente con 
colitis ulcerosa típica, la edad al momento de la cirugía, el tipo de trombosis, 
la reducción del riesgo de profilaxis, las complicaciones hemorrágicas y la 
mortalidad.
PRINCIPALES MEDIDAS DE RESULTADO: Los costos ($) y los beneficios (año de vida 
ajustado por calidad) reflejaron una perspectiva social y se descontaron en el 
tiempo al 3%. Los costos y los beneficios se combinaron para producir la 
principal medida de resultado, la relación costo-efectividad incremental ($ por 
año de vida ajustado por calidad). El análisis de sensibilidad probabilística 
multivariable modeló la incertidumbre en probabilidades, costos y desutilidades.
RESULTADOS: Utilizando parámetros de referencia, el costo total de atención 
social esperado individual fue de $ 957 sin profilaxis y $ 1,775 con profilaxis 
(no rentable; $ 257,280 por año de vida ajustado por calidad). La prevención de 
una sola mortalidad con profilaxis costaría $ 5.0 millones (número necesario a 
tratar: 6.134 personas). El ajuste en una variedad de escenarios mantuvo estas 
conclusiones el 77% de las veces. Con más pruebas de sensibilidad, el riesgo 
acumulado de TEV (> 1,5%) y el precio del régimen de ePpx (<$ 299) fueron los 
dos parámetros más sensibles a la incertidumbre.
LIMITACIONES: Las recomendaciones de la metodología de análisis de decisiones se 
limitan a la toma de decisiones en grupo, no a un perfil de riesgo individual.
CONCLUSIÓN: La ePpx de rutina en pacientes con colitis ulcerosa posoperatoria no 
es rentable. Este hallazgo es sensible a tasas de TEV superiores al promedio y 
oportunidades de profilaxis de bajo costo. See Video Abstract at 
http://links.lww.com/DCR/Bxxx (Pre-proofed version)

Copyright © The ASCRS 2021.

DOI: 10.1097/DCR.0000000000002056
PMCID: PMC8995329
PMID: 34840290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Eur J Ageing. 2021 Nov 22;19(3):587-597. doi: 10.1007/s10433-021-00661-3. 
eCollection 2022 Sep.

Aging-related fears and their associations with ideal life expectancy.

Rupprecht FS(1), Martin K(1), Lang FR(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychogerontology, Friedrich-Alexander University of 
Erlangen-Nuremberg, Kobergerstr. 62, 90408 Nuremberg, Germany.

Fears regarding various aspects tend to stimulate individuals to escape or to 
avoid the sources of the threat. We concluded that fears associated with the 
future aging process, like the fear of aging-related diseases, the fear of 
loneliness in old age, and the fear of death, would stimulate patterns of 
avoidance when it comes to ideal life expectancy. We expected fear of 
aging-related diseases and fear of loneliness in old age to be related to lower 
ideal life expectancies. We expected fear of death to be related to higher ideal 
life expectancies. In two adult lifespan samples [N 1 = 1065 and N 2 = 591; ages 
ranging from 18 to 95 years, M (SD)1 = 58.1 (17.2) years, M (SD)2 = 52.6 (18.1) 
years], we were able to support our hypothesis regarding fear of death. We 
furthermore found significant interactions among the fears, indicating that 
individuals fearing diseases or loneliness but being unafraid of death opted for 
the shortest lives. Our results indicate that fears regarding life in very old 
age might be associated with the wish to avoid this age period; the fear of 
death was however associated with the wish for particularly long lives, and 
thus, with distancing oneself from the dreaded event of death. We conclude that 
fears seem to be associated with how individuals approach old age and with what 
they wish for in their own future as aged people.

© The Author(s) 2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-021-00661-3
PMCID: PMC8607224
PMID: 34840544

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict interestThe authors report no conflict 
of interest.


883. Br J Pain. 2021 Nov;15(4):401-410. doi: 10.1177/2049463720972730. Epub 2020
Nov  30.

Chronic pain, functionality and quality of life in cancer survivors.

Poço Gonçalves J(1), Veiga D(2), Araújo A(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas Abel Salazar, Universidade do Porto, Porto, 
Portugal.
(2)Department of Anaesthesiology, Centro Hospitalar Universitário do Porto, 
Porto, Portugal.
(3)Department of Oncology, Centro Hospitalar Universitário do Porto, Porto, 
Portugal.

The increasing number of cancer survivors associated to a longer average 
life-span after diagnosis of an oncological disease facilitates the observation 
of deleterious long-term effects of both oncological disease and its treatment. 
Among these effects, chronic pain emerges as one of the most prevalent and, with 
its onset, there is a decrease in these patients' functionality and quality of 
life. The main focus in oncological disease treatment has been tumour 
eradication and average life expectancy extension after diagnosis, neglecting 
these deleterious long-term effects. This study aims at assessing the prevalence 
and characteristics of chronic pain in cancer survivors as well as pain 
interference in their quality of life and functionality. The study selected 
cancer survivors (n = 85) after dismissal from oncology service to assess the 
presence and characteristics of chronic pain, their health-related quality of 
life (HRQoL) and pain-related disability through a combination of different 
questionnaires. Chronic pain prevalence was 23.5%. In total, 85% of patients 
reported neuropathic pain descriptors and 45% presented diagnostic criteria for 
neuropathic pain. Of these patients, 45% were followed-up for pain surveillance 
and 35% underwent analgesic medication. There was a median pain disability index 
of 20.50 (14.50-35.00) and an average HRQoL of 0.5338 in chronic pain patients 
and 0.8872 in patients without pain. We found that chronic pain was the main 
negative predictor of HRQoL and was associated with decreased functionality. 
This study also concluded that these patients often were not offered the 
appropriate long-term medical follow-up. These findings highlight a need to 
raise awareness among health professionals to the importance of timely diagnosis 
and treatment of pain and its impact on HRQoL and functionality of long-term 
cancer survivors as well as the need to change clinical practice in order to 
improve healthcare provided to these patients.

© The British Pain Society 2020.

DOI: 10.1177/2049463720972730
PMCID: PMC8611292
PMID: 34840788

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The author(s) declared no 
potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship and/or 
publication of this article.


884. SSM Popul Health. 2021 Nov 16;16:100957. doi: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2021.100957. 
eCollection 2021 Dec.

Health inequality in Britain before 1750.

Kendall EJ(1), Brown AT(2), Doran T(3), Gowland R(1), Cookson R(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Archaeology, Durham University, Durham, UK.
(2)Department of History, Durham University, Durham, UK.
(3)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, Heslington, York, UK.
(4)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, York, UK.

BACKGROUND: This study examines the claim that social inequality in health in 
European populations was absent prior to 1750. This claim is primarily based on 
comparisons of life expectancy at birth in England between general and ducal 
(elite aristocrat) social classes from the 1550s to the 1870s.
METHODS: We examined historic childhood mortality trends among the English ducal 
class and the general population, based on previously published data. We 
compared mid-childhood to adolescent mortality (age 5-14) and early-childhood 
mortality (age 0-4) between the ducal class and the general population from the 
17th to 19th centuries.
RESULTS: Prior to 1750, ducal early-childhood mortality was higher than the 
general population. However, mid-childhood to adolescent mortality was lower 
among the ducal class than the general population in all observed periods for 
boys, and almost all periods for girls. Among the ducal class, but not the 
general population, there was a sharp decline in early-childhood mortality 
around the 1750s which may partly explain the divergent trends in overall life 
expectancy at birth.
CONCLUSION: Health inequality between the ducal class and general population was 
present in England from the 16th to mid-18th centuries, with disadvantages in 
mortality for ducal children in infancy and early childhood, but survival 
advantages in mid-childhood and adolescence. These opposing effects are obscured 
in life expectancy at birth data. Relatively high early-childhood mortality 
among ducal families before 1750 likely resulted from short birth intervals and 
harmful infant feeding practices during this time.

© 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2021.100957
PMCID: PMC8606541
PMID: 34841036

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


885. ASSETS. 2021 Oct;2021:52. doi: 10.1145/3441852.3476554.

An Open-source Tool for Simplifying Computer and Assistive Technology Use: Tool 
for simplification and auto-personalization of computers and assistive 
technologies.

Vanderheiden GC(1), Jordan JB(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland College Park, USA.

Computer access is increasingly critical for all aspects of life from education 
to employment to daily living, health and almost all types of participation. The 
pandemic has highlighted our dependence on technology, but the dependence 
existed before and is continuing after. Yet many face barriers due to 
disability, literacy, or digital literacy. Although the problems faced by 
individuals with disabilities have received focus for some time, the problems 
faced by people who just have difficulty in using technologies has not, but is a 
second large, yet less understood problem. Solutions exist but are often not 
installed, buried, hard to find, and difficult to understand and use. To address 
these problems, an open-source extension to the Windows and macOS operating 
systems has been under exploration and development by an international 
consortium of organizations, companies, and individuals. It combines 
auto-personalization, layering, and enhanced discovery, with the ability to 
Install on Demand (IoD) any assistive technologies a user needs. The software, 
called Morphic, is now installed on all of the computers across campus at 
several major universities and libraries in the US and Canada. It makes 
computers simpler to use, and allows whichever features or assistive 
technologies a person needs to appear on any computer they encounter (that has 
Morphic on it) and want to use at school, work, library, community center, etc. 
This demonstration will cover both the basic and advanced features as well as 
how to get free copies of the open-source software and configure it for school, 
work or personal use. It will also highlight lessons learned from the 
placements.

DOI: 10.1145/3441852.3476554
PMCID: PMC8620129
PMID: 34841424


886. Health Econ. 2022 Feb;31(2):431-439. doi: 10.1002/hec.4457. Epub 2021 Nov
28.

Not all respondents use a multiplicative utility function in choice experiments 
for health state valuations, which should be reflected in the elicitation format 
(or statistical analysis).

Jonker MF(1)(2)(3), Norman R(4).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus School of Health Policy & Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(2)Erasmus Choice Modelling Centre, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(3)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, 
USA.
(4)School of Public Health, Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia, 
Australia.

Discrete choice experiments (DCEs) that include health states and duration are 
becoming a common method for estimating quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
tariffs. These DCEs need to be analyzed under the assumption that respondents 
treat health and duration multiplicatively. However, in the most commonly used 
DCE duration format there is no guarantee that respondents actually do so; in 
fact, respondents can easily simplify the choice tasks by considering health and 
duration separately. This would result in valid DCE responses but preclude 
subsequent QALY tariff calculations. Using a Bayesian latent class model and 
data from two existing valuation studies, our analyses confirm that in both 
datasets the majority of respondents do not appear to have used a multiplicative 
utility function. Moreover, a statistical correction for respondents who used an 
incorrect function changes the range of the QALY weights. Hence our results 
imply that one can neither assume that respondents use the theoretically 
required multiplicative utility function nor assume that the type of utility 
function that respondents use does not affect the estimated QALY weights. As a 
solution, we advise researchers to use an alternative, more constrained DCE 
elicitation format that avoids these behavioral problems.

© 2021 The Authors. Health Economics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.4457
PMCID: PMC9298783
PMID: 34841637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
report.


887. Future Cardiol. 2022 Mar;18(3):235-251. doi: 10.2217/fca-2021-0058. Epub
2021  Nov 29.

Ranolazine: a better understanding of its pathophysiology and patient profile to 
guide treatment of chronic stable angina.

Tamargo J(1), Lopez-Sendon J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology & Toxicology, School of Medicine, Universidad 
Complutense, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Gregorio Marañón, Madrid, 
28040, Spain.
(2)IdiPaz Reseach Institute, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Universidad Autonoma 
de Madrid, Madrid,  28036, Spain.

Chronic stable angina pectoris, the most prevalent symptomatic manifestation of 
coronary artery disease, greatly impairs quality of life and is associated with 
an increased risk for adverse cardiovascular outcomes. Better understanding of 
the pathophysiologic mechanisms of myocardial ischemia permitted new therapeutic 
strategies to optimize the management of angina patients. Ideally, antianginal 
drug treatment should be tailored to individual patient's profile and chosen 
according to the pathophysiology, hemodynamic profile, adverse effects, 
potential drug interactions and comorbidities. In this respect, and because of 
its peculiar mechanism of action, ranolazine represents an alternative 
therapeutic approach in patients with chronic stable angina and may be 
considered the first choice in presence of comorbidities that difficult the use 
of traditional therapies.

Plain Language Summary: Advances in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of 
the coronary arteries (the vessels that provide oxygen and nutrients to the 
heart) have greatly reduced the mortality of heart attacks and prolonged life 
expectancy for many years. The consequence is a growing population with chronic 
disease of the coronary arteries. Healthy lifestyle (regular exercise, no 
smoking and healthy diet), control of risk factors (in particular, high blood 
pressure and high cholesterol) and the use of medications to prevent future 
heart attacks is of paramount importance and requires the active participation 
of patients and their families. Angina (chest pain or discomfort caused by 
reduced blood flow to the heart) is the most frequent complaint of this chronic 
condition and requires the use of medications (antianginal drugs) that should be 
selected according to the patient’s profile and the simultaneous presence of 
other diseases or medical conditions in the patient. This is call tailored 
therapy. Physicians should identify the best antianginal drug for each patient, 
and the patient should carefully follow instructions to improve quality of life, 
reduce medical visits and hospitalizations and improve outcomes.

DOI: 10.2217/fca-2021-0058
PMID: 34841884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Jt Dis Relat Surg. 2021;32(3):617-624. doi: 10.52312/jdrs.2021.156. Epub
2021  Nov 19.

A new custom-made plate preparation method for bony mallet finger treatment and 
a comparison with extension block technique.

Orman O(1), Baydar M, İpteç M, Keskinbıçkı MV, Akdeniz HE, Öztürk K.

Author information:
(1)İstanbul Metin Sabancı Baltalimanı Kemik Hastalıkları Eğitim ve Araştırma 
Hastanesi, El Cerrahisi Kliniği, 3447 Sarıyer, İstanbul, Türkiye. 
osmanorman@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVES: In this study, we aimed to describe a new hook plate technique (HPT) 
and to compare our results with the conventional extension block technique (EBT) 
with a Kirschner wire (K-wire) for bony mallet finger treatment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between April 2015 and January 2018, a total of 19 
patients including 10 who were treated with EBT (7 males, 3 females; mean age: 
30.1±7.3 years; range, 17 to 48 years) and nine who were treated with HPT (6 
males, 3 females; mean age: 31.7±11.3 years; range, 19 to 42 years) for bony 
mallet finger with distal interphalangeal (DIP) joint subluxation and/or 
fracture fragment larger than one-third of distal phalanx (Wehbe-Schneider type 
1/b, 2/a, 2/b, 3/a) joint were retrospectively analyzed. The DIP range of motion 
(ROM), Warren and Crawford scores, time to return to work/daily activity, 
operation time, the number of fluoroscopy shots, cost and complications were 
compared.
RESULTS: No significant difference was found in the DIP ROM (p=0.708) and the 
Warren/Norris and Crawford scores (p=0.217 and p=0.175, respectively) between 
the two groups. Operation time and material cost were higher with HPT (p=0.006, 
p=0.001). There was no significant difference in the number of fluoroscopy shots 
(p=0.344). Although DIP joint motion was started at two weeks in the HPT group 
and at eight weeks in the EBT group, no significant difference was observed in 
the time of return to work and normal daily life in both groups (p=0.859). 
Complications were observed in two patients in the EBT group and in three 
patients in the HPT group. No significant difference in total complications was 
observed between the two groups (p=0.666).
CONCLUSION: Bony mallet finger treatment with a custom-made hook plate prepared 
from 1.3-mm AO plates appeared to be clinically and radiologically similar to 
EBT. Additionally, HPT had the advantages of allowing early ROM to DIP joint and 
eliminating the need for a secondary surgery such as K-wire removal. On the 
other hand, hardware cost with HPT was higher than EBT.

DOI: 10.52312/jdrs.2021.156
PMCID: PMC8650668
PMID: 34842093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors declared no 
conflicts of interest with respect to the authorship and/or publication of this 
article.


889. Minerva Dent Oral Sci. 2021 Oct;70(5):196-205. doi: 
10.23736/S2724-6329.21.04551-4.

A cohort study on anticoagulant therapy risks in dental patients after multiple 
extractions.

Matarese M(1)(2), Cervino G(1), Fiorillo L(3)(4), Stelitano C(1), Imbesi 
Bellantoni M(1), Meto A(5), Greco Lucchina A(6), Tornello FA(7), Runci Anastasi 
M(2)(8), Rengo C(9).

Author information:
(1)School of Dentistry, Department of Biomedical and Dental Sciences, 
Morphological and Functional Images, G. Martino Polyclinic, University Hospital 
of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(2)IRCCS Centro Neurolesi &quot;Bonino-Pulejo, &quot; Messina, Italy.
(3)School of Dentistry, Department of Biomedical and Dental Sciences, 
Morphological and Functional Images, G. Martino Polyclinic, University Hospital 
of Messina, Messina, Italy - lfiorillo@unime.it.
(4)Multidisciplinary Department of Medical-Surgical and Odontostomatological 
Specialties, Luigi Vanvitelli University of Campania, Naples, Italy.
(5)Department of Dental Therapy, Faculty of Dental Medicine, University of 
Medicine, Tirana, Albania.
(6)Saint Camillus International University of Health Sciences, Rome, Italy.
(7)Private Practitioner, Grammichele, Catania, Italy.
(8)Department of Maxillo-Facial Surgery, Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(9)Department of Prosthodontics and Dental Materials, University of Siena, 
Siena, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Due to technology and pharmaceutical science and increasing life 
expectancy, the patient population is continuously aging. Patients requiring 
dental extractions often have systemic and/or chronic diseases and are 
undergoing polypharmacologic therapy. Oral surgeons often interface with 
patients who perform anticoagulant therapy. The main aim of this study was to 
clarify what the contraindications and short-/long-term complications may be.
METHODS: A sample of 298 patients (mean age 58 years) who required multiple 
surgical dental extractions has been taken in consideration. Patients were 
divided into groups and subgroups according to the anticoagulant drug therapy.
RESULTS: Long-term complications represented variable bleeding between groups 
from 8 hours to 7 days after surgery. The One-Way ANOVA Test was used to compare 
the results between groups. Patients treated with direct oral anticoagulants 
showed fewer intraoperative problems, but further studies and further 
collaboration between doctors, cardiologists and oral dentists/surgeons are 
certainly needed to manage these patients in a predictable manner.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that using direct oral anticoagulants drugs 
results in few intraoperative bleeding, less postoperative hemorrhagic 
complications, and an easier administration of the drugs respect vitamin K 
antagonists, with mild and manageable complications.

DOI: 10.23736/S2724-6329.21.04551-4
PMID: 34842406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2022 May;260(5):1435-1444. doi: 
10.1007/s00417-021-05492-7. Epub 2021 Nov 29.

Cellular components of the idiopathic epiretinal membrane.

da Silva RA(#)(1), Roda VMP(#)(1), Matsuda M(2), Siqueira PV(1), Lustoza-Costa 
GJ(1), Wu DC(1)(3), Hamassaki DE(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell & Developmental Biology, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, 
University of São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, 05508-000, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Investigation in Ophthalmology (LIM-33), Division of 
Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, 
Brazil.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Irmandade de Misericórdia da Santa Casa de São 
Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(4)Department of Cell & Developmental Biology, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, 
University of São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, 05508-000, Brazil. dania@usp.br.
(#)Contributed equally

Idiopathic epiretinal membrane (iERM) is a fibrocellular proliferation on the 
inner surface of the retina, which leads to decreased visual acuity and even 
central visual loss. As iERM is associated to advanced age and posterior 
vitreous detachment, a higher prevalence is expected with increasing life 
expectancy and aging of the global population. Although various cell types of 
retinal and extra-retinal origin have been described in iERMs (Müller glial 
cells, astrocytes, hyalocytes, retinal pigment epithelium cells, myofibroblasts, 
and fibroblasts), myofibroblasts have a central role in collagen production and 
contractile activity. Thus, myofibroblast differentiation is considered a key 
event for the iERM formation and progression, and fibroblasts, Müller glial 
cells, hyalocytes, and retinal pigment epithelium have been identified as 
myofibroblast precursors. On the other side, the different cell types synthesize 
growth factors, cytokines, and extracellular matrix, which have a crucial role 
in ERM pathogenesis. In the present review, the major cellular components and 
their functions are summarized, and their possible roles in the iERM formation 
are discussed. By exploring in detail the cellular and molecular aspects of 
iERM, we seek to contribute for better understanding of this fibrotic disease 
and the origin of myofibroblasts, which may eventually drive to more targeted 
therapeutic approaches.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-021-05492-7
PMID: 34842983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Psychol Aging. 2022 Mar;37(2):260-271. doi: 10.1037/pag0000661. Epub 2021
Nov  29.

COVID-19 and perceiving finitude: Associations with future time perspective, 
death anxiety, and ideal life expectancy.

Rupprecht FS(1), Martin K(1), Kamin ST(1), Lang FR(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychogerontology.

The coronavirus pandemic threatens the health, future, and life of individuals 
and might hence accentuate perceptions of the fragility and finitude of life. We 
investigated how different perceptions of the pandemic (regarding the virus as a 
health threat and perceiving social and financial restrictions due to the 
pandemic) relate to different perceptions of life's finitude (i.e., future time 
perspective, death anxiety, and ideal life expectancy). Using longitudinal data 
from 1,042 adults (68% women; aged 18-95 years) gathered within the first and 
within the second peak of the pandemic in Germany, we expected decreases in 
future time perspective and ideal life expectancy, as well as increases in death 
anxiety in response to threatening perceptions of the pandemic. The results 
indicated decreasing future time perspectives, an accentuation of death anxiety 
right at the beginning of the pandemic, as well as stable ideal life 
expectancies. There was a tendency for more pronounced change among older 
adults. Initial levels and changes in the perceptions of finitude could partly 
be explained by initial and changing perceptions of the pandemic. Next to 
perceptions targeting the threat of the virus itself, perceptions of strong 
social and financial restrictions during the pandemic contributed to an altered 
stance toward the finitude of life. Concluding, we discuss stability and 
variation in perceptions of the finitude of life during a time of major societal 
change and a potentially life-threatening pandemic. (PsycInfo Database Record 
(c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/pag0000661
PMID: 34843332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Contemp Clin Trials. 2022 Jan;112:106634. doi: 10.1016/j.cct.2021.106634.
Epub  2021 Nov 27.

Protocol for the models of primary osteoporosis screening in men (MOPS) cluster 
randomized trial.

Colón-Emeric CS(1), Lee R(2), Pieper CF(3), Lyles KW(2), Zullig LL(2), Nelson 
RE(4), Robinson K(5), Igwe I(5), Jadhav J(5), Adler RA(6).

Author information:
(1)Durham VA Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center and Center of 
Innovation to Accelerate Discovery and Practice Transformation (ADAPT), 508 
Fulton St. Durham, NC 27705, USA; Duke University School of Medicine, Box 3003 
DUMC, Durham, NC 27710, USA. Electronic address: Cathleen.colon-emeric@va.gov.
(2)Durham VA Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center and Center of 
Innovation to Accelerate Discovery and Practice Transformation (ADAPT), 508 
Fulton St. Durham, NC 27705, USA; Duke University School of Medicine, Box 3003 
DUMC, Durham, NC 27710, USA.
(3)Duke University School of Medicine, Box 3003 DUMC, Durham, NC 27710, USA.
(4)Informatics, Decision-Enhancement and Analytic Sciences Center, VA Salt Lake 
City VA Health Care System, 500 Foothills Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84148, USA; 
University of Utah School of Medicine, 30 N 1900 E, Salt Lake City, UT 84132, 
USA.
(5)Durham VA Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center and Center of 
Innovation to Accelerate Discovery and Practice Transformation (ADAPT), 508 
Fulton St. Durham, NC 27705, USA.
(6)Hunter Holmes McGuire VA Medical Center, 1201 Broad Rock Blvd, Richmond, VA 
23249, USA.

Current guidelines recommend primary osteoporosis screening for at-risk men to 
reduce the morbidity, mortality, and cost associated with osteoporotic 
fractures. However, analyses in a national Veterans Health Administration cohort 
of over 4,000,000 men demonstrated that primary osteoporosis screening as it is 
currently operationalized does not benefit most older Veterans due to 
inefficient targeting and low subsequent treatment and adherence rates. The 
overall objective of this study is to determine whether a new model of primary 
osteoporosis screening reduces fracture risk compared to usual care. We are 
conducting a pragmatic group randomized trial of 38 primary care teams assigned 
to usual care or a Bone Health Service (BHS) screening model in which screening 
and adherence activities are managed by a centralized expert team. The study 
will: 1) compare the impact of the BHS model on patient-level outcomes strongly 
associated with fracture rates (eligible proportion screened, proportion meeting 
treatment criteria who receive osteoporosis medications, medication adherence, 
and femoral neck bone mineral density); 2) quantify the impact on provider and 
facility-level outcomes including change in DXA volume, change in metabolic bone 
disease clinic volume, and PACT provider time and satisfaction; and 3) estimate 
the impact on health system and policy outcomes using Markov models of screening 
program cost per quality adjusted life year based from health system and 
societal perspectives.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cct.2021.106634
PMCID: PMC9234902
PMID: 34844000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Value Health Reg Issues. 2022 Jan-Feb;27:65-71. doi:
10.1016/j.vhri.2021.08.005.  Epub 2021 Nov 26.

Cost-Effectiveness of a Culturally Adapted Manual-Assisted Brief Psychological 
Intervention for Self-Harm in Pakistan: A Secondary Analysis of the Culturally 
Adapted Manual-Assisted Brief Psychological Randomized Controlled Trial.

Alvi MH(1), Shiri T(2), Iqbal N(3), Husain MO(4), Chaudhry I(5), Shakoor S(1), 
Ansari S(1), Kiran T(1), Chaudhry N(1), Husain N(6).

Author information:
(1)Pakistan Institute of Learning and Living, Karachi, Pakistan.
(2)Division of Psychology and Mental Health, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, England, UK; International Public Health, Liverpool School of 
Tropical Medicine, Liverpool, England, UK. Electronic address: 
tinevimbo.shiri@lstmed.ac.uk.
(3)Pakistan Institute of Development Economics, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(4)Pakistan Institute of Learning and Living, Karachi, Pakistan; School of 
Biological Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester, England, UK.
(5)Pakistan Institute of Learning and Living, Karachi, Pakistan; School of 
Biological Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester, England, UK; 
Department of Psychiatry, Ziauddin Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan.
(6)Division of Psychology and Mental Health, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, England, UK.

OBJECTIVES: Self-harm is a serious public health problem. A culturally adapted 
manual-assisted problem-solving training (C-MAP) intervention improved and 
sustained a reduction in suicidal ideation, hopelessness, and depression 
compared with treatment as usual (TAU) alone. Here, we evaluate its 
cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: Patients admitted after an episode of self-harm were randomized 
individually to either C-MAP plus TAU or TAU alone in Karachi. Improvement in 
health-related quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) was measured using the EQ-5D 
with 3 levels instrument at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months after 
randomization. The primary economic outcome was health service cost per QALY 
gained as the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, based on 2019 US$ and a 
6-month time horizon. Nonparametric bootstrapping was used to assess 
uncertainties and sensitivity analysis to examine the impact of hospitalization 
costs.
RESULTS: A total of 108 and 113 participants were enrolled among the 
intervention and standard arms, respectively. The intervention resulted in 0.04 
(95% confidence interval [CI] 0.00-0.08) more QALYs 6 months after enrolment. 
The mean cost per participant in the intervention arm was $1001 (95% CI 
968-1031), resulting in an incremental cost of the intervention of $640 (95% CI 
595-679). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for the C-MAP intervention 
versus TAU was $16 254 (95% CI 7116-99 057) per QALY gained. The probability 
that C-MAP is cost-effective was between 66% and 83% for cost-effective 
thresholds between $20 000 and $30 000. Cost-effectiveness results remained 
robust to sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: C-MAP may be a valuable self-harm intervention. Further studies 
with longer follow-up and larger sample sizes are needed to draw reliable 
conclusions.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vhri.2021.08.005
PMID: 34844061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Surg Oncol. 2022 Mar;40:101688. doi: 10.1016/j.suronc.2021.101688. Epub 2021
Nov  24.

Pancreaticoduodenectomy in octogenarians: The importance of "biological age" on 
clinical outcomes.

Quero G(1), Pecorelli N(2), Paiella S(3), Fiorillo C(4), Petrone MC(2), Capretti 
G(5), Laterza V(6), De Sio D(6), Menghi R(6), Kauffmann E(7), Nobile S(3), 
Butturini G(8), Ferrari G(9), Rosa F(1), Coratti A(10), Casadei R(11), 
Mazzaferro V(12), Boggi U(7), Zerbi A(5), Salvia R(3), Falconi M(2), Alfieri 
S(1).

Author information:
(1)Gemelli Pancreatic Center, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario "Agostino 
Gemelli" IRCCS, Largo Agostino Gemelli, 8, 00168, Rome, Italy; CRMPG (Advanced 
Pancreatic Research Center), Largo Agostino Gemelli, 8, 00168, Rome, Italy; 
Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore di Roma, Largo Francesco Vito 1, 00168, 
Rome, Italy.
(2)Division of Pancreatic Surgery, Pancreas Translational & Clinical Research 
Center, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy; Vita-Salute San 
Raffaele University, Milan, Italy; Pancreato-Biliary Endoscopy and EUS Division, 
Pancreas Translational & Clinical Research Center, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific 
Institute, Milan, Italy.
(3)Department of General and Pancreatic Surgery, The Pancreas Institute, 
University of Verona Hospital Trust, Italy.
(4)Gemelli Pancreatic Center, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario "Agostino 
Gemelli" IRCCS, Largo Agostino Gemelli, 8, 00168, Rome, Italy; CRMPG (Advanced 
Pancreatic Research Center), Largo Agostino Gemelli, 8, 00168, Rome, Italy. 
Electronic address: claudio.fiorillo@policlinicogemelli.it.
(5)Humanitas Clinical and Research Center - IRCCS, Rozzano, MI, Italy; Humanitas 
University, Department of Biomedical Sciences, Pieve Emanuele, MI, Italy.
(6)Gemelli Pancreatic Center, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario "Agostino 
Gemelli" IRCCS, Largo Agostino Gemelli, 8, 00168, Rome, Italy; CRMPG (Advanced 
Pancreatic Research Center), Largo Agostino Gemelli, 8, 00168, Rome, Italy.
(7)Chirurgia Generale Universitaria dell'Ospedale di Cisanello, Via Paradisa, 2, 
56124, Pisa, Italy.
(8)Casa di Cura Pederzoli, Via Monte Baldo 24, 37019, Peschiera del Garda, 
Verona, Italy.
(9)ASST Grande Ospedale Metropolitano Niguarda, Division of Minimally-invasive 
Surgical Oncology, Piazza Ospedale Maggiore, 3 20162, Milan, Italy.
(10)Division of Surgical Oncology and Robotics, Department of Oncology, Careggi 
University Hospital, Florence, Italy.
(11)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Bologna, Bologna, 
Italy.
(12)HPB Surgery and Liver Transplantation, Department of Oncology, University of 
Milan, Milan, Italy; Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Fondazione IRCCS, Milan, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: With the prolongation of life expectancy, an increasing number of 
elderly patients are evaluated for pancreatic surgery. However, the influence of 
increasing age on outcomes after pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) is still unclear, 
especially in octogenarians. Aim of this study is to evaluate the perioperative 
characteristics and outcomes of octogenarians undergoing PD.
METHODS: Data for 812 patients undergoing PD between 2019 and 2020 in 10 
referral centers in Italy were reviewed. Patients aged 80 years or older were 
matched based on nearest neighbor propensity scores in a 1:1 ratio to patients 
younger than 80 years. Propensity scores were calculated using 7 perioperative 
variables including gender, ASA score, neoadjuvant treatment (NAT), biliary 
stent positioning, type of surgical approach (open, laparoscopic, 
robot-assisted), associated vascular resections, type of lesion. Perioperative 
characteristics and short-term postoperative outcomes were compared before and 
after matching.
RESULTS: Overall, 81 (10%) patients had 80 years or more. Before matching, 
octogenarians had a higher rate of ASA score≥ 3 (n = 35, 43.2% vs. n = 207, 
28.3%; p = 0.005) and less frequently underwent NAT (n = 11, 13.6% vs. n = 213, 
29.1%; p = 0.003). Matching was successfully performed for 70 octogenarians. 
After matching, no differences in preoperative and intraoperative 
characteristics were found. Postoperatively, ICU admission was more frequent in 
octogenarians (50% vs 30%; p = 0.01). Although in-hospital mortality was higher 
in octogenarians before matching (7.4% vs 2.9% in the younger cohort; p = 0.03), 
no difference was noted between the matched cohorts (p = 0.36). Postoperative 
morbidity was comparable between groups in the whole and selected populations. 
At the multivariate analysis, chronological age was not recognized as a 
prognostic factor for cumulative major complications, while ASA ≥3 was the only 
confirmed influencing feature (OR 2.98; 95%CI: 1.6-6.8; p = 0.009).
CONCLUSIO: In high-volume centers, PD in octogenarians shows similar outcomes 
than younger patients. Age itself should not be considered an exclusion 
criterion for PD, but a focused preoperative assessment is essential for 
adequate patient selection.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.suronc.2021.101688
PMID: 34844071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. EBioMedicine. 2021 Dec;74:103723. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2021.103723. Epub
2021  Nov 27.

Next generation plasma proteome profiling of COVID-19 patients with mild to 
moderate symptoms.

Zhong W(1), Altay O(2), Arif M(1), Edfors F(1), Doganay L(3), Mardinoglu A(4), 
Uhlen M(1), Fagerberg L(5).

Author information:
(1)Science for Life Laboratory, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(2)Science for Life Laboratory, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Department of Clinical Microbiology, Dr Sami Ulus Training and Research 
Hospital, University of Health Sciences, Ankara, Turkey.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Umraniye Training and Research Hospital, 
University of Health Sciences, Istanbul, Turkey.
(4)Science for Life Laboratory, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Centre for Host-Microbiome Interactions, Faculty of Dentistry, Oral & 
Craniofacial Sciences, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.
(5)Science for Life Laboratory, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, 
Sweden. Electronic address: linn.fagerberg@scilifelab.se.

Comment in
    EBioMedicine. 2022 Jan;75:103773.

BACKGROUND: COVID-19 has caused millions of deaths globally, yet the cellular 
mechanisms underlying the various effects of the disease remain poorly 
understood. Recently, a new analytical platform for comprehensive analysis of 
plasma protein profiles using proximity extension assays combined with next 
generation sequencing has been developed, which allows for multiple proteins to 
be analyzed simultaneously without sacrifice on accuracy or sensitivity.
METHODS: We analyzed the plasma protein profiles of COVID-19 patients (n = 50) 
with mild and moderate symptoms by comparing the protein levels in newly 
diagnosed patients with the protein levels in the same individuals after 14 
days.
FINDINGS: The study has identified more than 200 proteins that are significantly 
elevated during infection and many of these are related to cytokine response and 
other immune-related functions. In addition, several other proteins are shown to 
