scores of nausea or vomiting, appetite decrease, diarrhea, constipation, etc. 
were improved obviously at M12 or M24 compared with those at M0 or during M1 
(all P<0.05). As the extension of the follow-up time, the score of the overall 
QoL of patients gradually increased [M0: 59.7 (0.0-100.0); M1: 63.1 (0.0-100.0); 
M12: 75.2 (0.0-100.0); M24: 94.1 (20.0-120.0); H=253.800, P<0.001]. Twelve 
months after the completion of treatments, the incidence of chronic radiation 
rectal injury was 9.8% (34/346), mainly presenting as abdominal pain, 
constipation, stool blood, diarrhea, mostly at level 1 to 2 toxicity (33/34, 
97.1%). One patient (0.3%) developed frequent diarrhea (>8 times/d), which was 
level 3 toxicity. Twenty-four months after all treatments, the incidence of 
chronic radiation rectal injury was 9.6% (24/250), which was not decreased 
significantly compared to that in the previous period (χ(2)=0.008, P=0.927). The 
symotoms of one patient with level 3 toxicity was not relieved. Conclusions: The 
common symptoms of patients with pelvic maligant tumors during postoperative 
adjuvant radiotherapy include nausea, vomiting, constipation, abdominal pain and 
diarrhea. These symptoms are alleviated obviously at 12 and 24 months after 
adjuvant radiotherapy, and the QoL is significantly improved. However, a few 
patients may develop chronic radiation rectal injury which is not improved for 
years or even decades, and deserves attention in clinical practice.

Publisher: 目的： 
放射治疗是盆腔恶性肿瘤主要的治疗手段。然而，既往对放射治疗后出现肠道的放射性损伤及患者生活质量的研究相对较少。本研究旨在分析盆腔恶性肿瘤辅助放疗后放射性直肠损伤的发生情况，以加强对放射性肠损伤研究的关注。 
方法： 
本研究采用回顾性观察研究方法，分析STARS前瞻性随机对照试验（临床试验注册号：NCT00806117）数据库里中山大学附属肿瘤医院的病例数据。纳入2008年2月至2015年8月期间，在中山大学附属肿瘤医院接受根治性手术和术后治疗的848例确诊为宫颈癌的患者。纳入标准：（1）病理组织学确诊为宫颈鳞癌、宫颈腺癌及宫颈腺鳞癌；（2）行根治性子宫切除术和盆腔淋巴结清扫术；（3）术后病理检查证实至少有下列不良因素之一：盆腔淋巴结转移、宫旁切缘阳性、淋巴脉管浸润或宫颈肌层深部间质浸润；（4）术后接受过盆腔放射治疗；（5）同意并能够完成问卷调查。排除患有精神疾病及有智力或认知障碍的患者。全组848例患者在接受根治性子宫切除术和盆腔淋巴结清扫术后，均进行了放射治疗。盆腔放疗剂量为1.8 
Gy/d或2.0 Gy/d，每周5次，总剂量45~50 
Gy。563例患者在术后6周内开始放射治疗，其中282例患者采用单纯辅助放疗，281例患者采用同期放化疗方案（单药顺铂）；285例患者采用序贯放化疗方案（TP方案，紫杉醇+顺铂）。观察术后辅助放疗期间的急性期不良事件发生情况、慢性期患者消化道不良反应发生情况和总体生活质量状况、以及慢性放射性直肠损伤发生情况。其中消化道症状及生活质量评估采用欧洲癌症治疗研究组织生命质量测定问卷3.0（EORTC 
QLQ-C30），功能领域和整体生活质量领域得分越高，说明生活质量越好；症状领域得分越高，表明症状或问题越多，生活质量越差；分别于患者放疗前（即手术治疗结束后1周）、术后辅助放疗期间、全部治疗结束后的12个月和24个月进行评估。慢性放射性直肠损伤定义为放疗结束后>3个月时消化道症状不能好转或者改善，分级标准参考美国国家癌症研究所不良事件通用标准4.0版（NCI-CTCAE 
4.0版）中的胃肠道部分。 结果： 
848例患者放射总辐射剂量为（47.8±4.6）Gy。术后辅助放疗期间，急性期胃肠道反应症状包括恶心（46.0%，390/848）、呕吐（33.8%，287/848）、便秘（16.3%，138/848）及腹痛（10.3%，87/848）。治疗后12个月和24个月分别回收问卷346份和250份，QLQ-C30调查问卷显示，恶心或呕吐、食欲减退、腹泻、便秘等胃肠道症状得分均较放疗前（手术后1周）和术后放疗期间改善（均P<0.05）。随着随访时间的延长，患者总体生活质量评分逐步提高[放疗前，手术后1周：59.7（0.0~100.0）分，术后放疗期间：63.1（0.0~100.0）分，全部治疗结束后12个月：75.2（0.0~100.0）分，全部治疗结束后24个月：94.1（20.0~120.0）分，H=253.800，P<0.001]。完成全部治疗结束后12个月时，慢性放射性直肠损伤发生率为9.8%（34/346），其中97.1%（33/34）为1~2级不良事件，表现包括腹痛、便秘、便血、腹泻；1例（0.3%）出现频繁腹泻>8次/d，为3级不良事件。全部治疗结束后的24个月，慢性放射性直肠损伤发生率为9.6%（24/250），并未随着时间延长而明显下降（χ(2)=0.008，P=0.927）。1例3级腹泻患者症状未见改善。 
结论： 
盆腔恶性肿瘤患者术后辅助放疗期间，常见的治疗相关性胃肠道症状包括恶心、呕吐、便秘、腹痛和腹泻；治疗后12个月和24个月时各种消化道症状明显好转，但仍有少部分患者出现慢性放射性直肠损伤，且随时间延长不能明显改善，值得临床重视。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn441530-20210720-00292
PMID: 34823296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Inquiry. 2021 Jan-Dec;58:469580211060184. doi: 10.1177/00469580211060184.

SARS-COV-2 Vaccines: What Indicators are Associated with the Worldwide 
Distribution of the First Doses.

Sobral MFF(1), Bezerra de Oliveira BR(1), Gomes da Penha Sobral AI(2), Monteiro 
Marinho ML(3), Duarte GB(4), de Souza Melo A(4).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Administração, 67744Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, 
Recife, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Psicologia Cognitiva, 28116Federal University of Pernambuco, 
Recife, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Computação, 67744Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, 
Recife, Brazil.
(4)Departamento de Economia, 67744Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, 
Recife, Brazil.

The present study aimed to identify the factors associated with the distribution 
of the first doses of the COVID-19 vaccine. In this study, we used 9 variables: 
human development index (HDI), gross domestic product (GDP per capita), Gini 
index, population density, extreme poverty, life expectancy, COVID cases, COVID 
deaths, and reproduction rate. The time period was until February 1, 2021. The 
variable of interest was the sum of the days after the vaccine arrived in the 
countries. Pearson's correlation coefficients were calculated, and t-test was 
performed between the groups that received and did not receive the immunizer, 
and finally, a stepwise linear regression model was used. 58 (30.4%) of the 191 
countries received the SARS-CoV-2 vaccine. The countries that received the most 
doses were the United States, China, the United Kingdom, and Israel. Vaccine 
access in days showed a positive Pearson correlation HDI, GDP, life expectancy, 
COVID-19 cases, deaths, and reproduction rate. Human development level, COVID-19 
deaths, GDP per capita, and population density are able to explain almost 50% of 
the speed of access to immunizers. Countries with higher HDI and per capita 
income obtained priority access.

DOI: 10.1177/00469580211060184
PMCID: PMC8649438
PMID: 34823403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


821. BMC Public Health. 2021 Nov 25;21(1):2163. doi: 10.1186/s12889-021-12018-7.

'Trend in premature mortality from four major NCDs in Nanjing, China, 
2007-2018'.

Yang H(#)(1), Fu Y(#)(2), Hong X(1), Yu H(3), Wang W(1), Sun F(1), Zhou J(4), 
Zhou N(5).

Author information:
(1)Nanjing Municipal Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu, China.
(2)Jiangsu Health Development Research Center, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(3)Jiangsu Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu, China.
(4)Jiangsu Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu, China. zhoujinyi74@sina.com.
(5)Nanjing Municipal Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu, China. Zhounan0408@126.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: This study aims to analyze the trends of premature mortality caused 
from four major non-communicable diseases (NCDs), namely cardiovascular disease 
(CVD), cancer, chronic respiratory diseases, and diabetes in Nanjing between 
2007 and 2018 and project the ability to achieve the "Healthy China 2030" 
reduction target.
METHODS: Mortality data of four major NCDs for the period 2007-2018 were 
extracted from the Death Information Registration and Management System of 
Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Population data for Nanjing 
were provided by the Nanjing Bureau of Public Security. The premature mortality 
was calculated using the life table method. Joinpoint regression model was used 
to estimate the average annual percent changes (AAPC) in mortality trends.
RESULTS: From 2007 to 2018, the premature mortality from four major NCDs 
combined in Nanjing decreased from 15.5 to 9.5%, with the AAPC value at - 4.3% 
(95% CI [- 5.2% to - 3.4%]). Overall, it can potentially achieve the target, 
with a relative reduction 28.6%. The premature mortality from cancer, CVD, 
chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes all decreased, with AAPC values at 
- 4.2, - 5.0%, - 5.9% and - 1.6% respectively. A relative reduction of 40.6 and 
41.2% in females and in rural areas, but only 21.0 and 12.8% in males and in 
urban areas were projected.
CONCLUSION: An integrated approach should be taken focusing on the modifiable 
risk factors across different sectors and disciplines in Nanjing. The prevention 
and treatment of cancers, diabetes, male and rural areas NCDs should be 
enhanced.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-021-12018-7
PMCID: PMC8614038
PMID: 34823505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared that they have no conflicts 
of interest to this work.


822. BMC Med Educ. 2021 Nov 25;21(1):592. doi: 10.1186/s12909-021-03022-x.

Physicians' approach to end of life care: comparison of two tertiary care 
university hospitals in Lebanon.

Dabar G(1), Akl IB(2), Sader M(3).

Author information:
(1)Pulmonary and Critical Care Division, Hotel Dieu de France Hospital, Saint 
Joseph University, Boulevard Alfred Naccache Achrafieh, PO Box 166830, Beirut, 
Lebanon. georges.dabar@usj.edu.lb.
(2)Pulmonary and Critical Care Division, American University of Beirut Medical 
Center, Beirut, Lebanon.
(3)Anesthesia and Critical Care Division, Hotel Dieu de France Hospital, Saint 
Joseph University, Beirut, Lebanon.

BACKGROUND: The care of terminally ill patients is fraught with ethical and 
medical dilemmas carried by healthcare professionals. The present study aims to 
explore the approaches of Lebanese attending physicians towards palliative care, 
end of life (EOL) care, and patient management in two tertiary care university 
hospitals with distinct medical culture.
METHODS: Four hundred attending physicians from the American University of 
Beirut Medical Center (AUBMC) and Hotel Dieu de France (HDF) were recruited. 
Participants were Medical Doctors in direct contact with adult patients that 
could be subject to EOL situations providing relevant demographic, educational, 
religious as well as personal, medical or patient-centric data.
RESULTS: The majority of physicians in both establishments were previously 
exposed to life-limiting decisions but remains uncomfortable with the decision 
to stop or limit resuscitation. However, physicians with an American training 
(AUBMC) were significantly more likely to exhibit readiness to initiate and 
discuss DNR with patients (p<0.0001). While the paternalistic medicinal approach 
was prevalent in both groups, physicians with a European training (HDF) more 
often excluded patient involvement based on family preference (p<0.0001) or to 
spare them from a traumatic situation (p=0.003). The majority of respondents 
reported that previous directives from the patient were fundamental to 
life-limiting decisions. However, the influence of patient and medical factors 
(e.g. culture, religion, life expectancy, age, socioeconomic status) was 
evidenced in the HDF group.
CONCLUSION: Early physician-initiated EOL discussions remain challenged in 
Lebanon. Paternalistic attitudes limit shared decision making and are most 
evident in European-trained physicians. Establishing a sound and effective 
framework providing legal, ethical and religious guidance is thus needed in 
Lebanon.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12909-021-03022-x
PMCID: PMC8620620
PMID: 34823513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None


823. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2021 Nov 30;78(22):2147-2157. doi: 
10.1016/j.jacc.2021.09.861.

Life Expectancy After Surgical Aortic Valve Replacement.

Martinsson A(1), Nielsen SJ(2), Milojevic M(3), Redfors B(4), Omerovic E(4), 
Tønnessen T(5), Gudbjartsson T(6), Dellgren G(2), Jeppsson A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, 
Sweden; Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
Gothenburg University, Gothenburg, Sweden. Electronic address: 
andreas.s.martinsson@vgregion.se.
(2)Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
Gothenburg University, Gothenburg, Sweden; Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Department of Cardiovascular Research, Dedinje Cardiovascular Institute, 
Belgrade, Serbia; Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Erasmus University 
Medical Centre, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, 
Sweden; Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
Gothenburg University, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway; 
University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(6)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Landspitali University Hospital, 
Reykjavik, Iceland; Faculty of Medicine, University of Iceland, Reykjavik, 
Iceland.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2021 Nov 30;78(22):2158-2160.

BACKGROUND: Surgical risk, age, perceived life expectancy, and valve durability 
influence the choice between surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) and 
transcatheter aortic valve implantation. The contemporaneous life expectancy 
after SAVR, in relation to surgical risk and age, is unknown.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to determine median survival time in 
relation to surgical risk and chronological age in SAVR patients.
METHODS: Patients ≥60 years with aortic stenosis who underwent isolated SAVR 
with a bioprosthesis (n = 8,353) were risk-stratified before surgery into low, 
intermediate, or high surgical risk using the logistic EuroSCORE (2001-2011) or 
EuroSCORE II (2012-2017) and divided into age groups. Median survival time and 
cumulative 5-year mortality were estimated with Kaplan-Meier curves. Cox 
regression analysis was used to further determine the importance of age.
RESULTS: There were 7,123 (85.1%) low-risk patients, 942 (11.3%) 
intermediate-risk patients, and 288 (3.5%) high-risk patients. Median survival 
time was 10.9 years (95% confidence interval: 10.6-11.2 years) in low-risk, 7.3 
years (7.0-7.9 years) in intermediate-risk, and 5.8 years (5.4-6.5 years) in 
high-risk patients. The 5-year cumulative mortality was 16.5% (15.5%-17.4%), 
30.7% (27.5%-33.7%), and 43.0% (36.8%-48.7%), respectively. In low-risk 
patients, median survival time ranged from 16.2 years in patients aged 60 to 64 
years to 6.1 years in patients aged ≥85 years. Age was associated with 5-year 
mortality only in low-risk patients (interaction P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Eighty-five percent of SAVR patients receiving bioprostheses have 
low surgical risk. Estimated survival is substantial following SAVR, especially 
in younger, low-risk patients, which should be considered in Heart 
Team discussions.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2021.09.861
PMID: 34823657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Funding Support and Author Disclosures This work 
was supported by grants from The Swedish Heart-Lung Foundation (20180560 to Dr 
Jeppsson and 201604 to Dr Nielsen), The Swedish state under the agreement 
between the Swedish government and the county councils concerning economic 
support of research and education of doctors (ALF agreement) (ALFGBG-725131 to 
Dr Jeppsson), and Västra Götaland Region (VGFOUREG-847811 and VGFOUREG-665591 to 
Dr Jeppsson), and Family Nils Winberg’s Foundation. The supporting bodies had no 
influence on the analysis and interpretation of data, on the writing of the 
report, or on the decision to submit the paper for publication. Dr Omerovic has 
received an institutional research grant from AstraZeneca; has received 
consultancy fees from Bayer and Novartis; and has received speaker honorarium 
from Merck, Sharp & Dohme, all outside the present work. Dr Dellgren has 
received an institutional grant for the SweVAD study from Abbott; and has 
received an institutional grant for the ScanCLAD study from Astellas. Dr 
Dellgren has received speaker's fees from XVIVO, all outside the present work. 
Dr Milojevic has received speaker’s fees from LivaNova outside the present work. 
Dr Jeppsson has received fees for consultancy or lectures from Werfen, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Portola, Baxter, and LFB Biomedicaments, all unrelated 
to the present work. All other authors have reported that they have 
no relationships relevant to the contents of this paper to disclose.


824. BMJ Glob Health. 2021 Nov;6(11):e007399. doi: 10.1136/bmjgh-2021-007399.

Subnational mortality estimates for India in 2019: a baseline for evaluating 
excess deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Rao C(1), John AJ(2), Yadav AK(3), Siraj M(4).

Author information:
(1)Research School of Population Health, Australian National University, 
Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia chalapati.rao@anu.edu.au.
(2)International Institute for Population Sciences, Mumbai, India.
(3)Indo German Programme on Universal Health Coverage, GIZ, Deutsche 
Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH, Delhi, India.
(4)Goldman School of Public Policy, University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, 
California, USA.

BACKGROUND: Estimates of excess mortality are required to assess and compare the 
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic across populations. For India, reliable baseline 
prepandemic mortality patterns at national and subnational level are necessary 
for such assessments. However, available data from the Civil Registration System 
(CRS) is affected by incompleteness of death recording that varies by sex, age 
and location.
METHODS: Under-reporting of CRS 2019 deaths was assessed for three age groups (< 
5 years, 15-59 years and ≥60 years) at subnational level, through comparison 
with age-specific death rates from alternate sources. Age-specific corrections 
for under-reporting were applied to derive adjusted death counts by sex for each 
location. These were used to compute life expectancy (LE) at birth by sex in 
2019, which were compared with subnational LEs from the Global Burden of Disease 
(GBD) 2019 Study.
RESULTS: A total of 9.92 million deaths (95% UI 9.70 to 10.02) were estimated 
across India in 2019, about 2.28 million more than CRS reports. Adjustments to 
under-five and elderly mortality accounted for 30% and 56% of additional deaths, 
respectively. Adjustments in Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, 
Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh accounted for 75% of all additional deaths. Adjusted 
LEs were below corresponding GBD estimates by ≥2 years for males at national 
level and in 20 states, and by ≥1 year for females in 12 states.
CONCLUSIONS: These results represent the first-ever subnational mortality 
estimates for India derived from CRS reported deaths, and serve as a baseline 
for assessing excess mortality from the COVID-19 pandemic. Adjusted life 
expectancies indicate higher mortality patterns in India than previously 
perceived. Under-reporting of infant deaths and those among women and the 
elderly is evident in many locations. Further CRS strengthening is required to 
improve the empirical basis for local mortality measurement across the country.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjgh-2021-007399
PMCID: PMC8627370
PMID: 34824138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


825. Nat Commun. 2021 Nov 25;12(1):6834. doi: 10.1038/s41467-021-27178-8.

Architecture of the outer-membrane core complex from a conjugative type IV 
secretion system.

Amin H(1), Ilangovan A(2), Costa TRD(3).

Author information:
(1)MRC Centre for Molecular Bacteriology and Infection, Department of Life 
Sciences, Imperial College, London, SW7 2AZ, UK.
(2)School of Biological and Chemical Sciences, Queen Mary University of London, 
London, E1 4NS, UK. a.ilangovan@qmul.ac.uk.
(3)MRC Centre for Molecular Bacteriology and Infection, Department of Life 
Sciences, Imperial College, London, SW7 2AZ, UK. t.costa@imperial.ac.uk.

Erratum in
    Nat Commun. 2022 Jan 31;13(1):690.

Conjugation is one of the most important processes that bacteria utilize to 
spread antibiotic resistance genes among bacterial populations. Interbacterial 
DNA transfer requires a large double membrane-spanning nanomachine called the 
type 4 secretion system (T4SS) made up of the inner-membrane complex (IMC), the 
outer-membrane core complex (OMCC) and the conjugative pilus. The iconic F 
plasmid-encoded T4SS has been central in understanding conjugation for several 
decades, however atomic details of its structure are not known. Here, we report 
the structure of a complete conjugative OMCC encoded by the pED208 plasmid from 
E. coli, solved by cryo-electron microscopy at 3.3 Å resolution. This 2.1 MDa 
complex has a unique arrangement with two radial concentric rings, each having a 
different symmetry eventually contributing to remarkable differences in protein 
stoichiometry and flexibility in comparison to other OMCCs. Our structure 
suggests that F-OMCC is a highly dynamic complex, with implications for pilus 
extension and retraction during conjugation.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-021-27178-8
PMCID: PMC8617172
PMID: 34824240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


826. Arch Razi Inst. 2021 Sep 1;76(3):411-419. doi:
10.22092/ARI.2020.342861.1487.  eCollection 2021 Summer.

Comparison of Two Different Methods for the Extraction of Outer Membrane 
Vesicles from the Bordetella pertussis as a Vaccine Candidate.

Soltani MS(1), Eftekhar F(1), Noofeli M(2), Banihashemi SR(3), Shahcheraghi 
F(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Microbial Biotechnology, Faculty of Life 
Sciences and Biotechnology, Shahid Beheshti University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Human Bacterial Vaccines Production and Research, Razi Vaccine 
and Serum Research Institute, Agricultural Research, Education and Extension 
Organization (AREEO), Karaj, Iran.
(3)Department of Immunology, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, 
Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Karaj, 
Iran.
(4)Department of Bacteriology, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.

Despite the availability of a vaccine, pertussis is still a worldwide health 
problem. Outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) in gram-negative bacteria can stimulate 
the immune system due to several outer membrane proteins and are very good 
candidates in vaccine development. OMVs obtained from Bordetella pertussis 
contain several antigens, which are considered immunogenic, and could make them 
a potential candidate for vaccine production. The current study aimed to compare 
the current OMV extraction method (with ultracentrifuge) and a modified 
extraction method (without ultracentrifuge) and to evaluate the physicochemical 
properties as well as the expression of their main virulence factors. Vaccinal 
strain BP134 grown on Bordet Gengo agar were inoculated in Modified 
Stainer-Scholte medium for mass cultivation. OMVs were prepared using two 
different methods. They were then stained and examined with a transmission 
electron microscope. Protein contents were measured by the Bradford method, and 
then the protein profile was evaluated by SDS-PAGE. The presence of immunogenic 
antigens was detected by Western blotting. The size and shape of the OMVs 
obtained from the modified method without the use of ultracentrifuge were 
similar to the current method and had a size between 40 and 200 nm. The total 
protein yields of the OMV isolated using the current and modified methods were 
800 and 600 µg/ml, respectively. Evaluating the protein profile of extracted 
OMVs showed the presence of different proteins. Finally, the presence of PTX, 
PRN, and FHA was observed in OMVs extracted from both methods. Comparison of the 
two OMV extraction methods showed that the obtained vesicles have a suitable and 
similar shape and size as well as the expression of three important pathogenic 
factors as immunogens. Despite the relatively low reduction in protein yield as 
the modified method does not require ultracentrifuge, this extraction method can 
be used as a suitable alternative for extracting the outer membrane vesicles 
from B. pertussis, especially in developing countries. It should be noted that 
further experiments including immunogenicity determination of OMVs obtained as 
vaccine candidates in animal models are required.

DOI: 10.22092/ARI.2020.342861.1487
PMCID: PMC8605849
PMID: 34824734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Arch Razi Inst. 2021 Sep 1;76(3):599-607. doi:
10.22092/ari.2020.342944.1490.  eCollection 2021 Summer.

Hemodynamic Changes Provoked through Intravascular Injection of the Echis 
carinatus Venom in Rats.

Zaeri S(1), Fatemikia H(2), Kamyab M(3), Esmaili A(4), Kim E(5), Mohammadpour 
Dounighi N(6), Salemi A(6), Khadem P(7), Seyedian R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Bushehr University of Medical Sciences, Bushehr, 
Iran.
(2)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Iran.
(3)Department of Aquatic Biotechnology, Faculty of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology, Shahid Beheshti University Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Pathology, Bushehr University of Medical Sciences, Bushehr, 
Iran.
(5)College of Veterinary Medicine, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju, KR.
(6)Department of Human Vaccine and Serum, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research 
Institute, Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), 
Karaj, Iran.
(7)School of Medicine, Bushehr University of Medical Sciences, Bushehr, Iran.

Echis carinatus (E. carinatus) is known for its hematological and nephrotoxic 
properties in the envenomed patients. Based on the limited data upon the 
cardiovascular changes associated with this dangerous venomous snake in Iran, 
the current study purposed to evaluate the venom-induced hemodynamic 
manifestations in rats. Venom (120 µg/kg) was administered intravenously within 
one minute through the left femoral vein, and the hemodynamic parameters were 
continuously recorded using a pressure transducer (MLT844, ADInstruments, 
Australia). The venom caused prominent hypotension leading to death a few 
minutes after a transient uprise in blood pressure. It also induced a decrease 
in heart and pulmonary rates, yet it had no arrhythmogenic properties. 
Additionally, pre-treatment with the pepsin-derived Iranian polyvalent antivenom 
(30 µl/Kg) completely neutralized the hemodynamic responses but had no effect 
when instilled two minutes after venom injection. Heparin (300 IU/kg) and 
epinephrine (1.5 µg/kg) prevented dramatic hypotension when used 10 minutes 
before venom instillation; however, atropine (1 mg/kg), dexamethasone (1 mg/kg), 
and ketorolac (10 mg/ml) had no effects. All treated rats were killed 
post-injection. Histologically, the lung was the most vulnerable organ with 
mononuclear infiltration, microcystic formation, and significant capillary 
congestion. Prominent renal pathological deterioration also occurred, including 
mesangial cell infiltration and diffuse bleeding, leading to acute tubular 
necrosis. Modest portal inflammation and vascular congestion were observed in 
the hepatic tissue of the envenomed rats. The crude venom of Iranian Echis 
carinatus caused hypotension leading to bradycardia, a decrease in pulmonary 
rate, and death without significant histological changes to the heart.

DOI: 10.22092/ari.2020.342944.1490
PMCID: PMC8605837
PMID: 34824752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. RSC Med Chem. 2021 Aug 23;12(11):1910-1925. doi: 10.1039/d1md00065a.
eCollection  2021 Nov 17.

Synthesis and antitumour evaluation of indole-2-carboxamides against paediatric 
brain cancer cells.

Alsayed SSR(1), Suri A(2), Bailey AW(2), Lane S(3), Werry EL(3)(4), Huang CC(5), 
Yu LF(6), Kassiou M(3), Sredni ST(2)(7), Gunosewoyo H(1).

Author information:
(1)Curtin Medical School, Faculty of Health Sciences, Curtin University Bentley 
Perth WA 6102 Australia Hendra.Gunosewoyo@curtin.edu.au.
(2)Division of Pediatric Neurosurgery, Ann and Robert H. Lurie Children's 
Hospital of Chicago Chicago IL 60611 USA simone.sredni@gmail.com.
(3)School of Chemistry, The University of Sydney NSW 2006 Australia 
michael.kassiou@sydney.edu.au.
(4)Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of Sydney NSW 2006 Australia.
(5)Department of Biostatistics, Zilber School of Public Health, University of 
Wisconsin Milwaukee WI 53205 USA.
(6)Shanghai Engineering Research Center of Molecular Therapeutics and New Drug 
Development, School of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, East China Normal 
University 3663 North Zhongshan Road Shanghai 200062 China.
(7)Department of Surgery, Northwestern University, Feinberg School of Medicine 
Chicago IL 60611 USA.

Paediatric glioblastomas are rapidly growing, devastating brain neoplasms with 
an invasive phenotype. Radiotherapy and chemotherapy, which are the current 
therapeutic adjuvant to surgical resection, are still associated with various 
toxicity profiles and only marginally improve the course of the disease and life 
expectancy. A considerable body of evidence supports the antitumour and 
apoptotic effects of certain cannabinoids, such as WIN55,212-2, against a wide 
spectrum of cancer cells, including gliomas. In fact, we previously highlighted 
the potent cytotoxic activity of the cannabinoid ligand 5 against glioblastoma 
KNS42 cells. Taken together, in this study, we designed, synthesised, and 
evaluated several indoles and indole bioisosteres for their antitumour 
activities. Compounds 8a, 8c, 8f, 12c, and 24d demonstrated significant 
inhibitory activities against the viability (IC50 = 2.34-9.06 μM) and 
proliferation (IC50 = 2.88-9.85 μM) of paediatric glioblastoma KNS42 cells. All 
five compounds further retained their antitumour activities against two atypical 
teratoid/rhabdoid tumour (AT/RT) cell lines. When tested against a 
medulloblastoma DAOY cell line, only 8c, 8f, 12c, and 24d maintained their 
viability inhibitory activities. The viability assay against non-neoplastic 
human fibroblast HFF1 cells suggested that compounds 8a, 8c, 8f, and 12c act 
selectively towards the panel of paediatric brain tumour cells. In contrast, 
compound 24d and WIN55,212-2 were highly toxic toward HFF1 cells. Due to their 
structural resemblance to known cannabimimetics, the most potent compounds were 
tested in cannabinoid 1 and 2 receptor (CB1R and CB2R) functional assays. 
Compounds 8a, 8c, and 12c failed to activate or antagonise both CB1R and CB2R, 
whereas compounds 8f and 24d antagonised CB1R and CB2R, respectively. We also 
performed a transcriptional analysis on KNS42 cells treated with our prototype 
compound 8a and highlighted a set of seven genes that were significantly 
downregulated. The expression levels of these genes were previously shown to be 
positively correlated with tumour growth and progression, indicating their 
implication in the antitumour activity of 8a. Overall, the drug-like and 
selective antitumour profiles of indole-2-carboxamides 8a, 8c, 8f, and 12c 
substantiate the versatility of the indole scaffold in cancer drug discovery.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1039/d1md00065a
PMCID: PMC8597418
PMID: 34825187

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts to declare.


829. Curr Rheumatol Rep. 2021 Nov 26;23(11):81. doi: 10.1007/s11926-021-01045-3.

The Musculoskeletal Manifestations of Marfan Syndrome: Diagnosis, Impact, and 
Management.

Pollock L(1), Ridout A(2), Teh J(3), Nnadi C(4), Stavroulias D(4), Pitcher A(5), 
Blair E(6), Wordsworth P(2), Vincent TL(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, NDORMS, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(2)Department of Rheumatology, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Oxford, UK.
(3)Department of Radiology, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Oxford, England, UK.
(4)Department of Surgery, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Oxford, UK.
(5)Department of Cardiology, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Oxford, UK.
(6)Department of Clinical Genetics, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation 
Trust, Oxford, UK.
(7)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, NDORMS, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. 
tonia.vincent@kennedy.ox.ac.uk.
(8)Department of Rheumatology, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Oxford, UK. tonia.vincent@kennedy.ox.ac.uk.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Marfan syndrome (MFS) is an autosomal dominant heritable 
disorder of fibrillin-1 (FBN1) with predominantly ocular, cardiovascular, and 
musculoskeletal manifestations that has a population prevalence of approximately 
1 in 5-10,000 (Chiu et al. Mayo Clin Proc. 89(1):34-42, 146, Dietz 3, Loeys et 
al. J Med Genet. 47(7):476-85, 4).
RECENT FINDINGS: The vascular complications of MFS still pose the greatest 
threat, but effective management options, such as regular cardiac monitoring and 
elective surgical intervention, have reduced the risk of life-threatening 
cardiovascular events, such as aortic dissection. Although cardiovascular 
morbidity and mortality remains high, these improvements in cardiovascular 
management have extended the life expectancy of those with MFS by perhaps 
30-50 years from an estimated mean of 32 years in 1972 (Dietz 3, Gott et al. Eur 
J Cardio-thoracic Surg. 10(3):149-58, 147, Murdoch et al. N Engl J Med. 
286(15):804-8, 148). The musculoskeletal manifestations of MFS, which to date 
have received less attention, can also have a significant impact on the quality 
of life and are likely to become more important as the age of the Marfan 
syndrome population increases (Hasan et al. Int J Clin Pract. 61(8):1308-1320, 
127). In addition, musculoskeletal manifestations are often critically important 
in the diagnosis of MFS. Here, we review the main clinically relevant and 
diagnostically useful musculoskeletal features of MFS, which together contribute 
to the "systemic features score" (referred to hereafter as systemic score), part 
of the revised Ghent nosology for MFS. We discuss current treatment strategies 
and highlight the need for a multidisciplinary approach to diagnosis and 
management. Finally, we review new pharmacological approaches that may be 
disease modifying and could help to improve the outcome for individuals with 
this syndrome.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11926-021-01045-3
PMCID: PMC8626407
PMID: 34825999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


830. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 2021 Dec;267:198-204. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejogrb.2021.11.011. Epub 2021 Nov 11.

Systematic review of sexual function in older women.

Athey RA(1), Kershaw V(2), Radley S(2).

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Teaching Hospitals Obstetrics and Gynaecology Unit, Sheffield, 
South Yorkshire, United Kingdom. Electronic address: ruth.athey@nhs.net.
(2)Sheffield Teaching Hospitals Obstetrics and Gynaecology Unit, Sheffield, 
South Yorkshire, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: As life expectancy increases and women are remaining healthy in to 
older age, sexual function in later life is an increasingly important and 
relevant topic for both women and clinicians. As a foundation to a wider project 
examining sexual function in later life, we undertook a systematic review and 
meta-analysis to investigate sexual frequency and sexual function in women over 
the age of 60.
METHODS: A literature search of the AMED (Allied and Complementary Medicine), 
EMBASE and MEDLINE databases was performed, using search terms including 'sexual 
function', 'elderly', 'female', 'woman', 'sexuality'. Quality assessment of 
studies was performed using the Newcastle-Ottawa scale.
RESULTS: There were 10 eligible cross-sectional studies, 4 of which reported 
sufficient data for meta-analysis. There was a wide range of study sizes from 59 
to 27, 500 participants. Each study utilised a different tool for assessing 
sexual function. The largest study reported that up to 73% of women remain 
sexually active in later life [1]. Other studies documented decreasing sexual 
desire with age and an association between enjoyment of sex in the past with 
good sexual function in the present. Meta-analysis was performed with 4 studies 
comparing women over the age of 60 with women under 60. This demonstrated a 
significant decrease in the proportion of women who were sexually active over 
the age of 60 (SMD 9.73, [4.69, 14.78], p = 0.0002). There were non-significant 
trends towards poorer sexual function (p = 0.06) and decreased interest in sex 
(p = 0.19) in older age.
CONCLUSION: Female sexual activity declines significantly with age and there is 
a non-significant association with poorer sexual function and decreasing sexual 
desire. Multiple biopsychosocial factors can impact on sexual function however, 
information relating to specific areas of sexual dysfunction with aging is 
sparse. This systematic review will inform a large-scale primary research 
project examining sexual function and dysfunction and impact on quality of life 
in older women, specifically in the context of women with pelvic floor 
disorders, in order to gain further insight and enhance clinical and holistic 
approaches to assessment and management.

Crown Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejogrb.2021.11.011
PMID: 34826667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


831. Biology (Basel). 2021 Nov 2;10(11):1124. doi: 10.3390/biology10111124.

Dose-Dependent Suppression of Human Glioblastoma Xenograft Growth by 
Accelerator-Based Boron Neutron Capture Therapy with Simultaneous Use of Two 
Boron-Containing Compounds.

Kanygin V(1), Razumov I(1)(2), Zaboronok A(1)(3), Zavjalov E(1)(2), Kichigin 
A(1), Solovieva O(1)(2), Tsygankova A(1)(4), Guselnikova T(1)(4), Kasatov 
D(1)(5), Sycheva T(5), Mathis BJ(6), Taskaev S(5)(7).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Medical and Biological Problems of BNCT, Novosibirsk State 
University, 1 Pirogov Str., 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia.
(2)Center for Genetic Resources of Laboratory Animals, Institute of Cytology and 
Genetics SB RAS, 10, Acad. Lavrentieva Ave., 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 
Tennodai, Tsukuba 305-8575, Ibaraki, Japan.
(4)Nikolaev Institute of Inorganic Chemistry SB RAS, 3, Acad. Lavrentieva Ave., 
630090 Novosibirsk, Russia.
(5)Budker Institute of Nuclear Physics, Siberian Branch of Russian Academy of 
Sciences, 11, Acad. Lavrentieva Ave., 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia.
(6)International Medical Center, University of Tsukuba Hospital, 2-1-1 Amakubo, 
Tsukuba 305-8576, Ibaraki, Japan.
(7)Laboratory of BNCT, Novosibirsk State University, 1 Pirogov Str., 630090 
Novosibirsk, Russia.

(1) Background: Developments in accelerator-based neutron sources moved boron 
neutron capture therapy (BNCT) to the next phase, where new neutron radiation 
parameters had to be studied for the treatment of cancers, including brain 
tumors. We aimed to further improve accelerator-BNCT efficacy by optimizing 
dosimetry control, beam parameters, and combinations of boronophenylalanine 
(BPA) and sodium borocaptate (BSH) administration in U87MG xenograft-bearing 
immunodeficient mice with two different tumor locations. (2) Methods: The study 
included two sets of experiments. In Experiment #1, BPA only and single or 
double irradiation in higher doses were used, while, in Experiment #2, BPA and 
BSH combinations and single or double irradiation with dosage adjustment were 
analyzed. Mice without treatment or irradiation after BPA or BPA+BSH injection 
were used as controls. (3) Results: Irradiation parameter adjustment and BPA and 
BSH combination led to 80-83% tumor-growth inhibition index scores, 
irradiation:BNCT ratios of 1:2, and increases in animal life expectancy from 9 
to 107 days. (4) Conclusions: Adjustments in dosimetry control, calculation of 
irradiation doses, and combined use of two 10B compounds allowed for BNCT 
optimization that will be useful in the development of clinical-trial protocols 
for accelerator-based BNCT.

DOI: 10.3390/biology10111124
PMCID: PMC8615214
PMID: 34827117

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.


832. Biology (Basel). 2021 Nov 5;10(11):1141. doi: 10.3390/biology10111141.

Response of Annual Herbaceous Plant Leaching and Decomposition to Periodic 
Submergence in Mega-Reservoirs: Changes in Litter Nutrients and Soil Properties 
for Restoration.

Hu X(1), Xie T(1), Arif M(1), Ding D(1), Li J(1), Yuan Z(1), Li C(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Eco-Environments in the Three Gorges Reservoir Region 
(Ministry of Education), Chongqing Key Laboratory of Plant Resource Conservation 
and Germplasm Innovation, College of Life Sciences, Southwest University, 
Chongqing 400715, China.

Litter decomposition is an important soil nutrient source that promotes 
vegetation in deteriorated riparian zones worldwide. The periodic submergence 
and sediment burial effects on two prominent annual herbaceous plants 
(Echinochloa crusgali and Bidens tripartite) are little known in mega-reservoir 
settings. Our study focuses on the mass and carbon loss and nutrient release 
from E. crusgali and B. tripartitle litter and changes in soil properties, which 
are important for riparian zone rehabilitation in the Three Gorges Dam 
Reservoir, China. This study adopted the litter bag method to explore the 
nutrient change characteristics and changes in soil properties at different 
sediment burial depths under flooding scenarios. Three burial depths (0 cm, 5 
cm, and 10 cm) were used for these two plants, and the experiment lasted for 180 
days. The results revealed that the litter decay rate was high at first in the 
incubation experiment, and the nutrient loss rate followed the pattern of K > P 
> N > C. The relationship between % C remaining and % mass remaining was nearly 
1:1, and the total amount of P exhibited a leaching-enrichment-release state in 
the decomposition process. Nutrients were changed significantly in the soil and 
overlying water at the first decomposition stage. Still, the total soil nutrient 
change was insignificant at the end, except for the 10 cm burial of B. 
tripartitle. Moreover, oxidation-reduction potential was the main factor in the 
litter decomposition process at different burial depths. This study indicated 
that sediment deposition reduced litter mass loss, slowed down the release of N 
and P, and retained more C, but promoted the release of K. Conclusively, in 
litter decomposition under waterlogging, the total soil nutrient content changed 
little. However, litter does more to the soil than that. Therefore, it is 
necessary to study the residual soil litter's continuous output after the water 
level declines for restoration purposes.

DOI: 10.3390/biology10111141
PMCID: PMC8614921
PMID: 34827134

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funding sponsors had no role in the study design, in the collection, analysis, 
or interpretation of data and the manuscript writing.


833. Antibiotics (Basel). 2021 Nov 13;10(11):1393. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics10111393.

Sub-Inhibitory Antibiotic Exposure and Virulence in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.

Nolan C(1), Behrends V(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life and Health Sciences, University of Roehampton, London SW15 
4JD, UK.

Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a prime opportunistic pathogen, one of the most 
important causes of hospital-acquired infections and the major cause of 
morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis lung infections. One reason for the 
bacterium's pathogenic success is the large array of virulence factors that it 
can employ. Another is its high degree of intrinsic and acquired resistance to 
antibiotics. In this review, we first summarise the current knowledge about the 
regulation of virulence factor expression and production. We then look at the 
impact of sub-MIC antibiotic exposure and find that the virulence-antibiotic 
interaction for P. aeruginosa is antibiotic-specific, multifaceted, and complex. 
Most studies undertaken to date have been in vitro assays in batch culture 
systems, involving short-term (<24 h) antibiotic exposure. Therefore, we discuss 
the importance of long-term, in vivo-mimicking models for future work, 
particularly highlighting the need to account for bacterial physiology, which by 
extension governs both virulence factor expression and antibiotic 
tolerance/resistance.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics10111393
PMCID: PMC8615142
PMID: 34827331

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


834. Brain Sci. 2021 Oct 28;11(11):1436. doi: 10.3390/brainsci11111436.

The Relevant Role of Navigated Tractography in Speech Eloquent Area Glioma 
Surgery: Single Center Experience.

Salvati LF(1), De Marco R(2), Palmieri G(2), Minardi M(2), Massara A(2), 
Pesaresi A(2), Cagetti B(1), Melcarne A(2), Garbossa D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Santa Corona Hospital, Asl2 Liguria, 17027 Pietra 
Ligure, Italy.
(2)Neurosurgery Unit, AOC Città della Salute e della Scienza, Department of 
Neuroscience "Rita Levi Montalcini", University of Turin, 10126 Turin, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Gliomas are among the most challenging pathologies for neurosurgeons 
due to their infiltrative and recurrent nature in functionally relevant regions. 
Current knowledge confirms that gross total resection highly influence survival 
in patient with glioma. However, surgery performed in eloquent brain area, could 
seriously compromise the quality of life in patient with reduced life expectancy 
even more if it concerns the language function.
METHODS: 18 right-handed patients with perisylvian gliomas on the left 
hemisphere were prospectively analyzed over a period of 12 months. Standardized 
preoperative Diffusion-Tensor-Imaging based tractography of the five main 
language Tracts (Arcuate Fasciculus, Frontal Aslant Tract, Inferior 
Fronto-Occipital Fasciculus, Inferior Longitudinal Fasciculus, Uncinate 
Fasciculus) was navigated during the surgical procedure. Using a validated 
method, correlations were made between the pre-operative fascicles and their 
possible infiltration and surgical damage. The language status was assessed 
using the Aachen Aphasia Test.
RESULTS: In all nine patients who developed a permanent disorder there was 
pre-operative involvement of at least one fascicle and resection of at least one 
of these. In this way, areas of high risk of permanent language damage have 
emerged as a result of surgical injury: the temporoparietal junction, the middle 
portion of the FAT and the temporal stem.
CONCLUSIONS: Navigated tractography has proven to be a user-friendly tool that 
can assess perioperative risk, guide surgical resection, and help the 
neurosurgeon to find that balance between tumor resection and function 
preservation.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci11111436
PMCID: PMC8616013
PMID: 34827434

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


835. Biomolecules. 2021 Nov 19;11(11):1722. doi: 10.3390/biom11111722.

Novel Methylation Biomarkers for Colorectal Cancer Prognosis.

Gutierrez A(1), Demond H(1), Brebi P(1), Ili CG(1).

Author information:
(1)Millennium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, Laboratory of 
Integrative Biology (LIBi), Centro de Excelencia en Medicina Traslacional 
(CEMT), Scientific and Technological Bioresource Nucleus (BIOREN), Universidad 
de La Frontera, Temuco 4810296, Chile.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) comprises the third most common cancer worldwide and the 
second regarding number of deaths. In order to make a correct and early 
diagnosis to predict metastasis formation, biomarkers are an important tool. 
Although there are multiple signaling pathways associated with cancer 
progression, the most recognized are the MAPK pathway, p53 pathway, and TGF-β 
pathway. These pathways regulate many important functions in the cell, such as 
cell cycle regulation, proliferation, differentiation, and metastasis formation, 
among others. Changes in expression in genes belonging to these pathways are 
drivers of carcinogenesis. Often these expression changes are caused by 
mutations; however, epigenetic changes, such as DNA methylation, are 
increasingly acknowledged to play a role in the deregulation of oncogenic genes. 
This makes DNA methylation changes an interesting biomarkers in cancer. Among 
the newly identified biomarkers for CRC metastasis INHBB, SMOC2, BDNF, and TBRG4 
are included, all of which are highly deregulated by methylation and closely 
associated with metastasis. The identification of such biomarkers in metastasis 
of CRC may allow a better treatment and early identification of cancer formation 
in order to perform better diagnostics and improve the life expectancy.

DOI: 10.3390/biom11111722
PMCID: PMC8615818
PMID: 34827720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the result.


836. Animals (Basel). 2021 Nov 10;11(11):3207. doi: 10.3390/ani11113207.

Infection of Mammary Glands of Small Mammals in Eastern North America by 
Helminths.

Conn DB(1)(2), Hefty CA(1), Owen SC(3).

Author information:
(1)One Health Center, Department of Biology, Berry College, Mount Berry, GA 
30149, USA.
(2)Department of Invertebrate Zoology, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard 
University, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA.
(3)West Virginia University Extension Service, West Virginia University, 
Morgantown, WV 26506, USA.

To determine whether small mammals living in natural settings harbor helminth 
infections in their mammary glands, we conducted a survey of helminths infecting 
rodents and soricimorphs in three widespread locations in the eastern United 
States: states of New York, Tennessee, and Georgia. We examined all the primary 
organs in all hosts, and identified all helminths. We also excised the complete 
mammary glands within their subcutaneous fat pads, then stained and mounted each 
whole mammary gland set for microscopical examination. A total of 53 individual 
hosts were examined, including 32 Peromyscus spp., 11 Mus musculus, 5 Sigmodon 
hispidus, 4 Clethrionomys gapperi, and 1 Blarina carolinensis. Helminths 
collected included Heligmosomoides sp., Hymenolepisdiminuta, Hymenolepis nana, 
Pterygodermatites peromysci, Schistosomatium douthitti, Syphacia obvelata, 
Syphacia sigmodontis, and Trichostrongylus sigmodontis. Four S. hispidus were 
infected by T. sigmodontis in the small intestine; in all four, we also found 
nematode larvae in lactiferous duct lumen and lactogenic tissue of the mammary 
glands. We were unable to identify the species of nematode larvae, but the 
co-occurrence with T. sigmodontis in all cases may suggest an association. 
Future studies should seek to identify such larvae using molecular and other 
methods, and to determine the role of these mammary nematode larvae in the life 
cycle of the identified species. No other host species harbored helminths in the 
mammary glands. Overall, our results suggest that mammary infections in wild 
small mammals are not common, but warrant inclusion in future surveys.

DOI: 10.3390/ani11113207
PMCID: PMC8614468
PMID: 34827942

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


837. Animals (Basel). 2021 Nov 11;11(11):3219. doi: 10.3390/ani11113219.

Protein Supplementation and Grazing Behavior for Cows on Differing Late-Season 
Rangeland Grazing Systems.

Sprinkle JE(1), Sagers JK(2), Hall JB(1), Ellison MJ(1), Yelich JV(1), Brennan 
JR(3), Taylor JB(4), Lamb JB(5).

Author information:
(1)Nancy M. Cummings Research, Extension & Education Center, University of 
Idaho, Carmen, ID 83462, USA.
(2)Jefferson & Clark County Extension, University of Idaho, Rigby, ID 83442, 
USA.
(3)West River Research & Extension Center, South Dakota State University, Rapid 
City, SD 57702, USA.
(4)U. S. Sheep Experiment Station, USDA Agricultural Research Service, Dubois, 
ID 83423, USA.
(5)Formerly Furst-McNess Company, Currently Intermountain Farmers Association, 
Rexburg, ID 83440, USA.

The objective was to determine if low- or high-residual feed intake (LRFI or 
HRFI, n = 24 for each) Hereford × Angus cows on continuously or rotationally 
grazed rangeland altered their grazing behavior when provided a protein 
supplement in late autumn. Treatments included continuously grazed, control 
(CCON, n = 12); continuously grazed, supplemented (CTRT, n = 12); rotationally 
grazed, control (RCON, n = 12); and rotationally grazed, supplemented pastures 
(RTRT, n = 12). Cows in each treatment had grazing time (GT), resting time (RT), 
and walking time (WLK) measured for 2 years with accelerometers. Bite rate (BR) 
was also measured. Time distributions of GT and RT differed by year (p < 0.05), 
being influenced by colder temperatures in 2016. Cattle in 2016 spent more time 
grazing during early morning and late evening (p < 0.05) and rested more during 
the day (p < 0.05). In 2017, cattle in the CCON treatment walked more (p < 0.05) 
during early morning time periods than did the CTRT cattle, indicative of search 
grazing. All supplemented cattle had greater BR (p < 0.05) than control cattle 
in 2017. Cattle with increased nutritional demands alter grazing behavior in a 
compensatory fashion when grazing late-season rangelands.

DOI: 10.3390/ani11113219
PMCID: PMC8614474
PMID: 34827951

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. 
James B. Lamb of Furst–McNess did not have any role in the design of this 
experiment, data collection, analysis, or interpretation of data but did assist 
in the review of the manuscript for publication.


838. Foods. 2021 Oct 20;10(11):2514. doi: 10.3390/foods10112514.

Effects of Pressure Level and Time Treatment of High Hydrostatic Pressure (HHP) 
on Inulin Gelation and Properties of Obtained Hydrogels.

Florowska A(1), Florowski T(1), Sokołowska B(2)(3), Adamczak L(1), Szymańska 
I(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Food Sciences, Warsaw University of Life Sciences-SGGW, 159c 
Nowoursynowska Street, 02-787 Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Prof. Wacław Dąbrowski Institute of Agricultural 
and Food Biotechnology-State Research Institute, 36 Rakowiecka Street, 02-532 
Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Institute of High Pressure Physics of Polish Academy of Sciences, 29/37 
Sokołowska Street, 01-142 Warsaw, Poland.

The aim of this study was the evaluation of the influence of different HHP 
levels (150 and 300 MPa) and time treatment (5, 10, 20 min) on the gelation and 
properties of hydrogels with different inulin concentration (15, 20, 25 g/100 
g). High-pressure treatment, in tested ranges, induces inulin gels and allows 
obtaining gel structures even at a lowest tested inulin content (i.e., 15 g/100 
g). Selecting the pressure parameters, it is possible to modify the 
characteristics of the created hydrogels. The use of higher pressure (i.e., 300 
MPa) allows to increase the stability of the hydrogels and change their 
