

95. Gait Posture. 2022 Feb;92:294-301. doi: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2021.11.016. Epub 
2021 Nov 15.

Unilateral non-electric assistive walking device helps neurological and 
orthopedic patients to improve gait patterns.

Feodoroff B(1), Blümer V(2).

Author information:
(1)German Sport University Cologne, Germany. Electronic address: 
b.feodoroff@dshs-koeln.de.
(2)German Sport University Cologne, Germany. Electronic address: 
v.bluemer@dshs-koeln.de.

BACKGROUND: Pathological gait patterns are common in neurological and orthopedic 
patients. These put them at risk of falling and restrict their autonomy and 
social participation. Novel assistive walking devices are designed to actively 
support physiological gait patterns by means of motor guidance and mechanical 
support of the lower limbs.
RESEARCH QUESTION: Does a non-electric assistive walking device powered by a 
cam-spring mechanism (aLQ, Imasen) improve or otherwise affect pathological gait 
patterns in neurological and orthopedic patients?
METHODS: A three-dimensional instrumented gait analysis was conducted on a 
treadmill (quasar, hp cosmos) using spatiotemporal, kinetic, and kinematic data 
obtained from synchronized motion capturing (Miqus M3, Qualisys), surface EMG 
(sEMG; Ultium, Noraxon), and pressure distribution measurements (FMD-T, Zebris). 
Participants with impaired walking were tested in a randomized repeated measures 
design (assisted/unassisted; at preferred/fast speed) and analyzed with regard 
to their medical condition (orthopedic or neurological group, n = 20 each).
RESULTS: In both groups, participants showed a significant increase of step 
length and decrease of cadence during assisted walking compared to baseline. 
Immediate kinematic effects included enhanced sagittal hip flexion but reduced 
extension. On the contrary, knee joint angles and muscle activity of M. 
gastrocnemius and M. rectus femoris seemed to be unaffected by the aLQ device.
SIGNIFICANCE: Participants appear to benefit from the assistive walking device 
regarding gait and movement patterns, which suggests that the tested device may 
help to improve patients' functional health status and quality of life. 
Activities of daily living (ADLs) that involve extensive hip flexion like stairs 
or curb climbing are promising applications. We propose the implementation of an 
invertible cam-spring that provides an additional resistance training option.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2021.11.016
PMID: 34902658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2022 Mar-Apr;99:104607. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2021.104607. Epub 2021 Dec 11.

Corrigendum to 'Associations of Frailty with Cardiovascular Disease and Life 
expectancy: A Prospective Cohort Study' [Archives of Gerontology and Geriatrics 
Volume 99 Mar-Apr (2022) 104598].

Hou Y(1), Xu C(2), Lu Q(3), Zhang Y(1), Cao Z(4), Li S(1), Yang H(1), Sun L(3), 
Cao X(1), Zhao Y(3), Wang Y(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
(2)School of Public Health, Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou, China.
(3)School of Nurse, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
(4)School of Public Health, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China; School 
of Public Health, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(5)School of Public Health, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China. 
Electronic address: YaogangWANG@tmu.edu.cn.

Erratum for
    Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2022 Mar-Apr;99:104598.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2021.104607
PMID: 34902706


97. Ann Gen Psychiatry. 2021 Dec 13;20(1):52. doi: 10.1186/s12991-021-00374-y.

Mortality gap and physical comorbidity of people with severe mental disorders: 
the public health scandal.

Fiorillo A(1), Sartorius N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Campania "L Vanvitelli", Naples, 
Italy. andrea.fiorillo@unicampania.it.
(2)Association for the Improvement of Mental Health Programmes, Geneva, 
Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Patients suffering from severe mental disorders, including 
schizophrenia, major depression and bipolar disorders, have a reduced life 
expectancy compared to the general population of up to 10-25 years. This 
mortality gap requires urgent actions from a public health perspective in order 
to be reduced.
MAIN TEXT: Factors associated with the high mortality rates in patients with 
severe mental disorders can be grouped into four groups: those related to the 
patients, to psychiatrists, to other non-psychiatrist medical doctors and to the 
healthcare system. Each of these factors should become the target of specific 
and dedicated interventions, in order to reduce the morbidity and mortality rate 
in patients with severe mental disorders. All these elements contribute to the 
neglect of physical comorbidity in patients with severe mental. In particular, 
the long-standing separation of psychiatry from other branches of medicine and 
the lack of specific training on this issue further contribute to the poor 
attention dedicated to management of physical comorbidities. Recently, several 
professional associations have invited national bodies regulating education of 
healthcare professionals to include the management of physical health of people 
with severe mental disorders in undergraduate and postgraduate educational 
programs.
CONCLUSIONS: The premature mortality in patients with severe mental disorders is 
a complex phenomenon resulting by the interaction of several protective and risk 
factors. Therefore, a multilevel approach is needed, in which the different 
stakeholders involved in health care provision establish workforces for the 
long-term management of physical and mental health conditions.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12991-021-00374-y
PMCID: PMC8670051
PMID: 34903254

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


98. Aust Health Rev. 2022 Apr;46(2):143-149. doi: 10.1071/AH20208.

Application of an economic evaluation approach to making regulatory decisions 
regarding access to medicines: advantages, challenges and recommendations.

Parkinson B(1), Cutler H(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Health Economy, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW, Australia; 
and Corresponding author.
(2)Centre for the Health Economy, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

Initially patients require a prescription to access most new medicines. Some 
medicines may later be reclassified, allowing patients to access them without a 
prescription. Currently, Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration guidelines 
regarding reclassification decisions focus on patient risk rather than on 
potential benefits to patient health and the healthcare system. We conducted two 
extensive case studies demonstrating an economic evaluation approach to medicine 
reclassification in Australia, which were presented at various conferences and 
to key stakeholders. This article discusses the advantages and challenges of 
using an economic evaluation approach to inform medicine reclassification 
decisions. Advantages identified include systematically and transparently 
synthesising evidence from multiple sources; predicting the overall expected 
impact of reclassification on health outcomes and costs before it occurs; 
considering a broader range of risks and benefits; aggregation of health impacts 
into a single measure (quality-adjusted life years); identification of drivers 
of uncertainty; insight into the effects of different regulatory decisions; and 
improved consistency of evidence. Challenges include data availability and 
quality, estimating behavioural changes, model complexity, the lack of an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio threshold, and funding of economic 
analyses. We recommend that regulatory decision makers use an economic 
evaluation approach to help inform reclassification decisions, although economic 
evaluation results should be considered as part of the broader body of evidence. 
Ultimately, the use of an economic evaluation approach will contribute to 
helping decision makers maximise population health outcomes in an efficient way. 
What is known about the topic? In the past, decisions regarding medicine 
reclassification have generally been made using a deliberative approach focusing 
on patient risk. However, there are also potential benefits to patient health 
and effects on the healthcare system. Increasing awareness of these benefits 
have led to the development of alternative approaches to decision making, 
including an economic evaluation approach. What does this paper add? This 
article discusses the advantages and challenges of using an economic evaluation 
approach to inform medicine reclassification decisions compared with alternative 
approaches. What are the implications for practitioners? Economic evaluation 
results should be considered as part of the broader body of evidence regarding 
the types of health impacts, the extent of the available evidence, who will be 
affected, and the role of medical practitioners and pharmacists in mitigating 
any risks. However, awareness of the advantages and challenges of this approach 
in advance will help mitigate some of the challenges and increase acceptance of 
the economic evaluation results by decision makers and stakeholders.

DOI: 10.1071/AH20208
PMID: 34903326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. BMJ Open. 2021 Dec 13;11(12):e049541. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-049541.

Cost-effectiveness of an 8-week supervised education and exercise therapy 
programme for knee and hip osteoarthritis: a pre-post analysis of 16 255 
patients participating in Good Life with osteoArthritis in Denmark (GLA:D).

Grønne DT(1), Roos EM(2), Ibsen R(3), Kjellberg J(4), Skou ST(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sports Science and Clinical Biomechanics, University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark dgronne@health.sdu.dk.
(2)Department of Sports Science and Clinical Biomechanics, University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(3)I2minds, Aarhus, Denmark.
(4)VIVE - The Danish Center for Social Science Research, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(5)The Research Unit PROgrez, Department of Physiotherapy and Occupational 
Therapy, Næstved-Slagelse-Ringsted Hospitals, Slagelse, Denmark.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate 1-year cost-effectiveness of an 8-week supervised 
education and exercise programme delivered in primary care to patients with 
symptomatic knee or hip osteoarthritis (OA).
DESIGN: A registry-based pre-post study linking patient-level data from the Good 
Life with osteoArthritis in Denmark (GLA:D) registry to national registries in 
Denmark.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: 16 255 patients with symptomatic knee or hip OA 
attending GLA:D.
INTERVENTION: GLA:D is a structured supervised patient education and exercise 
programme delivered by certified physiotherapists and implemented in Denmark.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Adjusted healthcare costs per Quality-Adjusted Life Year 
(QALY) gained from baseline to 1 year (ratio of change in healthcare costs to 
change in EuroQoL 5-Dimensions 5-Level questionnaire (EQ-5D)). All adjusted 
measures were estimated using a generalised estimating equation gamma regression 
model for repeated measures. Missing data on EQ-5D were imputed with Multiple 
Imputations (3 months: 23%; 1 year: 39 %).
RESULTS: Adjusted change in healthcare cost was 298€ (95% CI: 206 to 419) and 
640€ (95% CI: 400 to 1009) and change in EQ-5D was 0.035 (95% CI: 0.033 to 
0.037) and 0.028 (95% CI: 0.025 to 0.032) for knee and hip patients, 
respectively. Hence estimated adjusted healthcare costs per QALY gained was 
8497€ (95% CI: 6242 to 11 324) for knee and 22 568€ (95% CI: 16 000 to 31 531) 
for hip patients. In patients with high compliance, the adjusted healthcare 
costs per QALY gained was 5438€ (95% CI: 2758 to 9231) for knee and 17 330€ (95% 
CI: 10 041 to 29 364) for hip patients. Healthcare costs per QALY were below 
conventional thresholds for willingness-to-pay at 22 804€ (20 000£) and 43 979€ 
(US$50 000), except the upper limit of the 95% CI for hip patients which was in 
between the two thresholds.
CONCLUSIONS: A structured 8-week supervised education and exercise programme 
delivered in primary care was cost-effective at 1 year in patients with knee or 
hip OA supporting large-scale implementation in clinical practice.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-049541
PMCID: PMC8672017
PMID: 34903537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Dr Roos is deputy editor of 
Osteoarthritis and Cartilage, the developer of the Knee injury and 
Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) and several other freely available 
patient-reported outcome measures and cofounder of Good Life with osteoArthritis 
in Denmark (GLA:D), a not-for profit initiative hosted at University of Southern 
Denmark aimed at implementing clinical guidelines for osteoarthritis in clinical 
practice. Dr Skou is associate editor of the Journal of Orthopaedic & Sports 
Physical Therapy, has received grants from The Lundbeck Foundation, personal 
fees from Munksgaard, all of which are outside the submitted work. He is 
cofounder of GLA:D. RI: None. JK: None. Dr Grønne is employed as data manager in 
the GLA:D project.


100. World J Clin Cases. 2021 Nov 26;9(33):10064-10074. doi: 
10.12998/wjcc.v9.i33.10064.

Effects of anti-diabetic drugs on sarcopenia: Best treatment options for elderly 
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and sarcopenia.

Ma XY(1), Chen FQ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital, China Medical 
University, Shenyang 110001, Liaoning Province, China.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital, China Medical 
University, Shenyang 110001, Liaoning Province, China. chenfenqin7881@163.com.

Human life expectancy increases as society becomes more developed. This 
increased life expectancy poses challenges associated with the rapid aging of 
the population. Sarcopenia, an age-related disease, has become a worldwide 
health issue. Patients with sarcopenia experience decreases in muscle mass and 
function, becoming frail and eventually bedridden. Type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(T2DM) is also a major health issue; the incidence of T2DM increases with aging. 
T2DM is associated with reduced muscle strength and poor muscle quality and may 
contribute to acceleration of the aging process, augmenting age-related 
sarcopenia. Recent studies indicate that elderly patients with diabetes are at 
an increased risk for sarcopenia. Therefore, these older diabetic patients with 
sarcopenia need specific anti-diabetic therapies targeting not only glycemic 
control but also sarcopenia, with the goal of preventing sarcopenia in 
pre-sarcopenic patients. Presently, various types of hypoglycemic drugs are 
available, but which hypoglycemic drugs are better suited for geriatric T2DM 
patients with sarcopenia remains undetermined. In this review, we discuss the 
association between diabetes and sarcopenia in geriatric patients, and how 
anti-diabetic drugs may influence sarcopenia outcomes. This review will guide 
clinical workers in the selection of drugs best suited for this patient 
population.

©The Author(s) 2021. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.12998/wjcc.v9.i33.10064
PMCID: PMC8638038
PMID: 34904076

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: Authors declare 
no conflict of interests for this article.


101. Br J Surg. 2022 Feb 1;109(2):e31-e32. doi: 10.1093/bjs/znab431.

Cost-utility analysis of normothermic and hypothermic ex-situ machine perfusion 
in liver transplantation.

Zimmermann J(1)(2)(3), Carter AW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, London School of Economics & Political Science, 
London, UK.
(2)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(3)Addenbrooke's Transplant Unit, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation 
Trust, Cambridge, UK.

Comment in
    Br J Surg. 2022 Oct 14;109(11):e123.
    Br J Surg. 2022 Oct 14;109(11):e124.

DOI: 10.1093/bjs/znab431
PMCID: PMC10364715
PMID: 34904161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Trop Med Int Health. 2022 Feb;27(2):174-184. doi: 10.1111/tmi.13711. Epub
2021  Dec 23.

Epidemiological burden of Chikungunya fever in Brazil, 2016 and 2017.

Vidal ERN(1)(2), Frutuoso LCV(1)(3), Duarte EC(1), Peixoto HM(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Center of Tropical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Universidade de Brasília, 
Brasília, Brazil.
(2)Federal District Health Secretariat, Brasília, Brazil.
(3)Ministério da Saúde, Secretaria de Vigilância em Saúde, Brasília, Brasil.
(4)National Institute of Science and Technology for Health Technology 
Assessment, Porto Alegre, Brazil.

OBJECTIVES: To describe Chikungunya fever (CHIKF) cases and estimate the burden 
of the disease in Brazil between 2016 and 2017.
METHODS: The first stage of this study consisted of a descriptive 
epidemiological study with estimations of incidence, mortality and case-fatality 
rates for each Brazilian state. The second stage provided estimates of the 
disease burden using DALY, an indicator that aggregates measures of morbidity 
(years lived with disability - YLD) and mortality (years of life lost - YLL) 
into a single value.
RESULTS: In Brazil, the incidence rate in 2016 was 114.70 per 100,000 
inhabitants, while the mortality rate was 0.15 per 100,000, for a case-fatality 
rate of 0.13%. In 2017, these figures were 87.59 and 0.12 per 100,000 
inhabitants and 0.14%, respectively. The estimated CHIKF burden for Brazil in 
2016 was 77,422.61 DALY or 0.3757 per 1000 inhabitants. In 2016, the YLL share 
of DALY was 10.04%, with YLD accounting for the remaining 89.96%. In 2017, the 
estimated burden was 59,307.59 DALY or 0.2856 per 1000 inhabitants, with YLL 
accounting for 9.65% of the total and YLD for 90.35%.
CONCLUSION: CHIKF causes a significant disease burden in Brazil. The chronic 
phase of CHIKF is responsible for the largest portion of DALY. Deaths from CHIKF 
are a significant component of the disease burden, with YLL accounting for 
approximately 10% of the total DALY value.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tmi.13711
PMID: 34905272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Br J Radiol. 2022 Feb 1;95(1130):20211033. doi: 10.1259/bjr.20211033. Epub
2021  Dec 14.

Understanding breast cancer as a global health concern.

Wilkinson L(1), Gathani T(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Oxford Breast Imaging Centre, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation 
Trust, Oxford, UK.
(2)Nuffield Department of Population Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(3)Department of Surgery, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Oxford, UK.

Breast cancer is now the most commonly diagnosed cancer in the world. The most 
recent global cancer burden figures estimate that there were 2.26 million 
incident breast cancer cases in 2020 and the disease is the leading cause of 
cancer mortality in women worldwide. The incidence is strongly correlated with 
human development, with a large rise in cases anticipated in regions of the 
world that are currently undergoing economic transformation. Survival, however, 
is far less favourable in less developed regions. There are a multitude of 
factors behind disparities in the global survival rates, including delays in 
diagnosis and lack of access to effective treatment. The World Health 
Organization's new Global Breast Cancer Initiative was launched this year to 
address this urgent global health challenge. It aims to improve survival across 
the world through three pillars: health promotion, timely diagnosis, and 
comprehensive treatment and supportive care. In this article, we discuss the key 
challenges of breast cancer care and control in a global context.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr.20211033
PMCID: PMC8822551
PMID: 34905391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. AIDS Patient Care STDS. 2022 Jan;36(1):26-33. doi: 10.1089/apc.2021.0137.
Epub  2021 Dec 14.

Substance Use-Related Intentional Nonadherence to Antiretroviral Therapy Among 
Young Adults Living with HIV.

Kalichman SC(1), Eaton LA(1), Kalichman MO(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Collaboration on Health Intervention and Policy (InCHIP), 
University of Connecticut, Storrs, Connecticut, USA.

Antiretroviral therapy (ART) reduces HIV disease burden, increases life 
expectancy, and prevents HIV transmission. Previous research suggests that 
believing that it is harmful to take ART when using substances (i.e., 
interactive toxicity beliefs) leads to intentional ART nonadherence; however, 
these associations have not been investigated among younger adults living with 
HIV and have not been linked to clinical outcomes. We examined the associations 
among interactive toxicity beliefs, intentional nonadherence, and HIV clinical 
outcomes in young adults living with HIV. People living with HIV younger than 
the age of 36 years who tested positive for at least one substance use biomarker 
(N = 406) completed a 1-month pretrial run-in study that included computerized 
interviews, substance use biomarkers, HIV viral load, and unannounced pill 
counts for ART adherence. Analyses compared three HIV clinical outcome groups: 
(1) HIV viral unsuppressed, (2) HIV viral suppressed and ART nonadherent, and 
(3) HIV viral suppressed and ART adherent, on substance use, interactive 
toxicity beliefs, and substance use-related intentional ART nonadherence. 
Results showed that a majority of participants reported intentional 
nonadherence. Participants with unsuppressed HIV reported greater interactive 
toxicity beliefs and intentional nonadherence. We conclude that intentional 
nonadherence adds to the detrimental impacts of substance use on ART adherence 
and interactive toxicity beliefs that foster these behaviors may be amenable to 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1089/apc.2021.0137
PMCID: PMC8905232
PMID: 34905404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No competing financial interests exist.


105. Health Promot Int. 2021 Dec 13;36(Supplement_2):ii53-ii64. doi: 
10.1093/heapro/daab160.

Introducing the Practice Dive Approach: an extension of co-creation in physical 
activity promotion and health promotion.

Popp J(1), Carl J(1), Grüne E(1), Pfeifer K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sport Science and Sport, Friedrich-Alexander University 
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Gebbertstraße 123b, Erlangen 91058, Germany.

Recently, there has been increasing interest in co-creation utilized for 
physical activity (PA) promotion and health promotion. Co-creation involves 
researchers and non-academic stakeholders conjointly developing and implementing 
interventions. In addition to the frequently reported benefits of co-creation, 
critical voices highlight the associated challenges (e.g. different interests 
that inhibit interaction). So far, research has not identified concrete 
solutions to these challenges and the limitations of co-creation. This article 
aims to introduce the Practice Dive Approach as a potential way to strengthen 
cooperation between researchers and non-academic stakeholders. We build on 
real-life experiences from a German research project, in which researchers moved 
into practice to familiarize themselves with the settings and end-users. After 
conducting a literature search on related concepts in PA/health promotion, we 
developed a comprehensive approach to fostering multi-sectoral cooperation. The 
introduced Practice Dive Approach assumes that a significant contribution to 
better cooperation among co-creators is the temporal immersion of researchers in 
their setting of interest, which has the potential to improve the success of 
co-creation in the PA/health promotion field. A four-level typology 
characterizes the intensity of researcher interactions with the setting and the 
non-academic stakeholders. Potential beneficial effects for both researchers and 
non-academic stakeholders can be hypothesized (e.g. familiarity with the setting 
structures and increased understanding of the end-users), while simultaneously, 
some challenges need to be considered. Future research should aim to validate 
the concept and its postulated effects.

Plain Language Summary: Collaboration among researchers and non-academic 
stakeholders is increasingly used to promote physical activity and health. For 
example, people involved in such collaborations jointly develop new 
interventions. Potential challenges include different interests or work routines 
that can complicate cooperation. This article aims to introduce the Practice 
Dive Approach as a potential way to improve cooperation between researchers and 
non-academic stakeholders. We developed the approach based on observations from 
a German research project and a literature search on related concepts. This 
approach assumes that the temporal involvement of researchers in their setting 
of interest can strengthen research-practice cooperation and improve its 
success. We describe different types of a Practice Dive and the requirements for 
conducting Practice Dive activities. Furthermore, we present the potential 
effects of a Practice Dive for the researchers and the non-academic 
stakeholders, such as increased familiarity between both groups. However, some 
challenges need to be considered when applying the Practice Dive Approach. 
Future research should test this approach and its potential effects.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/heapro/daab160
PMCID: PMC8672929
PMID: 34905611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. BMC Health Serv Res. 2021 Dec 14;21(1):1339. doi:
10.1186/s12913-021-07344-w.

Value of willingness to pay for a QALY gained in Iran; a modified 
chained-approach.

Jahanbin SF(1), Yusefzadeh H(1), Nabilou B(1), Alinia C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management and Economics, School of Public Health, Urmia 
University of Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran.
(2)Department of Health Management and Economics, School of Public Health, Urmia 
University of Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran. siros_alinia@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Due to the lack of a constant Willingness to Pay per one additional 
Quality Adjusted Life Years gained based on the preferences of Iran's general 
public, the cost-effectiveness of health system interventions is unclear and 
making it challenging to apply economic evaluation to health resources priority 
setting.
METHODS: We have measured this cost-effectiveness threshold with the 
participation of 2854 individuals from five provinces, each representing an 
income quintile, using a modified Time Trade-Off-based Chained-Approach. In this 
online-based empirical survey, to extract the health utility value, participants 
were randomly assigned to one of two green (21121) and yellow (22222) health 
scenarios designed based on the earlier validated EQ-5D-3L questionnaire.
RESULTS: Across the two health state versions, mean values for one QALY gain 
(rounded) ranged from $6740-$7400 and $6480-$7120, respectively, for aggregate 
and trimmed models, which are equivalent to 1.35-1.18 times of the GDP per 
capita. Log-linear Multivariate OLS regression analysis confirmed that 
respondents were more likely to pay if their income, disutility, and education 
level were higher than their counterparts.
CONCLUSIONS: In the health system of Iran, any intervention that is with the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, equal to and less than 7402.12 USD, will 
be considered cost-effective.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-021-07344-w
PMCID: PMC8670027
PMID: 34906099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


107. Spine J. 2022 May;22(5):857-868. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2021.12.007. Epub
2021  Dec 11.

Global incidence, prevalence, and disability of vertebral fractures: a 
systematic analysis of the global burden of disease study 2019.

Dong Y(1), Peng R(1), Kang H(1), Song K(1), Guo Q(1), Zhao H(1), Zhu M(1), Zhang 
Y(1), Guan H(1), Li F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Orthopedics, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China. Electronic address: 
lifengmd@hust.edu.cn.

Comment in
    Spine J. 2022 Jun;22(6):1070.
    Spine J. 2022 Jun;22(6):1071.

BACKGROUND CONTEXT: In the context of the population growing and aging 
worldwide, the epidemiology, and burden of vertebral fracture have not been 
comprehensively analyzed.
PURPOSE: To delineate the global number and rate of incidence, prevalence and 
burden of vertebral fracture in 2019, and the temporal trends from 1990 to 2019 
by location, age, sex, and the socio-demographic index (SDI).
STUDY DESIGN/SETTING: A cross-sectional study using data from the Global Burden 
of Disease Study 2019 (GBD study 2019).
PATIENT SAMPLE: Patients with vertebral fracture documented in medical records 
or registrations and included in the GBD study 2019 from different countries 
worldwide.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Age standardized incidence rate (ASIR), age standardized 
prevalence rate (ASPR), and age standardized years lived with disability (YLDs).
METHODS: The GBD study 2019 was used to obtain data for this analysis. The 
incidence, prevalence and disability were analyzed by location, year, sex, age, 
and SDI. DisMod-MR 2.1, a Bayesian meta-regression tool, was used to produce the 
estimates for each value after adjustment for age, sex, and other variables. 
Estimated annual percentage change (EAPC) was calculated to represent the 
temporal trends from 1990 to 2019. Spearman's rank order correlation was used to 
determine the correlation between SDI and the incidence and burden of vertebral 
fracture. This work was supported by the Key Research and Development Program of 
Hubei Province of China (No. 2020BCB049), and no conflicts of 
interest-associated biases existed in this study.
RESULTS: Globally, there were 8.6 million (95% uncertainty interval [UI], 
6,6-11,3 million) incident cases, 5.3 million (95% UI, 4.6-6.2 million) 
prevalent cases, and 0.55 million (95% UI, 0.37-0.77 million) YLDs of vertebral 
fracture. Compared with 1990, the number of incident cases and YLDs in 2019 
increased by 38% (95% UI, 23%-48%) and 75% (95% UI, 65%-85%), respectively, 
while the ASIR (EAPC, -0.28; 95% CI, -0.41 to -0.14), ASPR (EAPC, -0.12; 95% CI, 
-0.22 to -0.02) and age standardized YLD rate (ASYR) (EAPC, -0.13; 95% CI, -0.23 
to -0.04) decreased during this period. High ASIR, ASPR and ASYR were commonly 
seen in high-SDI countries, such as high-income North America, Australia, 
Central and Eastern Europe. In the country level, positive correlations were 
observed between SDI and ASIR (rho, 0.596; p<.001) and ASYR (rho, 0.413; 
p<.001). Males had higher ASIR and ASYR worldwide in each year from 1990 to 
2019. However, the incidence, and YLD rates in females surpassed that in males 
after 65 years of age. Increasing trends were observed for both incidence and 
YLD rates with age. Falls were the leading cause for vertebral fracture across 
all ages.
CONCLUSIONS: The past thirty years have seen increasing numbers but decreasing 
rates of global incidence, prevalence, and disability of vertebral fractures, 
resulting from the growing population worldwide. With population aging, efforts 
are still in urgent need to address vertebral fracture related health outcomes.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spinee.2021.12.007
PMID: 34906740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations of competing interest Each author 
declared that no conflicts of interest exist regarding this study.


108. BMJ Open. 2021 Dec 14;11(12):e051236. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-051236.

Cost effectiveness of screening for intracranial aneurysms among patients with 
bicuspid aortic valve: a Markov modelling study.

Chen J(#)(1)(2), Han M(#)(3), Feng X(4), Peng F(1)(2), Tong X(1)(2), Niu 
H(1)(2), Zhang D(#)(5), Liu A(#)(6)(2).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Neurosurgical Institute, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Interventional Neuroradiology, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, 
Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, The Third Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Beijing Hospital, Beijing, China.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Naval Medical University, Shanghai, China 
liuaihuadoctor@163.com dfzhangsmmu@163.com.
(6)Beijing Neurosurgical Institute, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China 
liuaihuadoctor@163.com dfzhangsmmu@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: Bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) is common and 7.7%-9.8% of patients with 
BAV have intracranial aneuryms (IAs) which might lead to a devastating 
subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH). We aimed to evaluate different screening and 
follow-up strategies using magnetic resonance angiography for IAs among patients 
with BAV.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was built to evaluate the costs and 
effectiveness of different management strategies from the Chinese healthcare 
payer's perspective. The evaluated strategies included natural history without 
screening for possible IAs, regular screening and no follow-up for detected IAs, 
and regular screening with regular follow-up (Screen strategy/Follow-up 
strategy). Base case calculation, as well as probabilistic, one-way, and two-way 
sensitivity analyses, were performed.
RESULTS: According to the base case calculation, natural history had the least 
cost and effectiveness while Every 5 years (y)/Annual gained the highest cost 
and effectiveness. Every 10y/Biennial was cost effective when compared with 
Every 10y/Every 5y under the willingness-to-pay threshold of ¥211 743 
(US$30 162). Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that Every 10y/Biennial 
was superior in 88.3% of the cases when compared with Every 10y/Every 5y. 
One-way and two-way sensitivity analyses proved that Every 10y/Biennial was the 
dominant strategy under most circumstances.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for possible IAs among patients with BAV and follow-up 
for detected IAs would increase the effectiveness. Every 10y/Biennial was the 
optimal strategy from the Chinese healthcare payer's perspective.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-051236
PMCID: PMC8672010
PMID: 34907052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


109. BMJ Open. 2021 Dec 14;11(12):e053324. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-053324.

Physical comorbidity and use of healthcare services in people with 
schizophrenia: protocol for a systematic review.

Salvador Robert M(1), Porras-Segovia A(2), Peñuelas-Calvo I(3), Baca-Garcia 
E(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Hospital Universitario de Mostoles, Mostoles, 
Spain.
(2)Instituto de Investigacion Sanitaria de la Fundacion Jimenez Diaz, Madrid, 
Spain.
(3)Psychiatry, Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Instituto de Investigacion Sanitaria de la Fundacion Jimenez Diaz, Madrid, 
Spain ebacgar2@yahoo.es.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Hospital Universitario Fundacion Jimenez Diaz, 
Madrid, Spain.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Madrid Autonomous University, Madrid, Spain.
(7)CIBERSAM (Centro de Investigacion en Salud Mental), Carlos III Institute of 
Health, Madrid, Spain.
(8)Universidad Catolica del Maule, Talca, Chile.
(9)Department of psychiatry, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Nîmes, France, 
Nîmes, France.

INTRODUCTION: People with schizophrenia die about 15-20 years earlier than the 
general population. A constellation of factors contributes to this gap in life 
expectancy: side effects of psychotropic drugs, unhealthy lifestyles 
(inactivity, unhealthy diet) and inequality in the provision of healthcare 
services. This is a topic of main importance, which requires constant update and 
synthesis of the literature. The aim of this review is to explore the evidence 
of physical comorbidity and use of healthcare services in people with 
schizophrenia.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We will conduct a systematic literature search in the 
databases PubMed/MEDLINE, EMBASE, Scopus, Web of Science, PsycINFO and Cochrane 
Library, Proquest Health Research Premium Collection, in order to identify 
studies that answer to our research question: Are patients with schizophrenia 
different from the non-psychiatric population in terms of physical comorbidity 
and use of healthcare services? Two authors will independently review the 
studies and extract the data.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study does not include human or animal subjects. 
Thus, ethics considerations are not applicable. Dissemination plans include 
publications in peer-reviewed journals and discussion of results in psychiatric 
congresses.
PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42020139972.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-053324
PMCID: PMC8671972
PMID: 34907063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


110. FASEB J. 2022 Jan;36(1):e22072. doi: 10.1096/fj.202101061R.

The double-edged sword effect of HDAC6 in Aβ toxicities.

Cheng KC(1)(2), Hwang YL(1), Chiang HC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is marked by cognitive impairment, massive cell death, 
and reduced life expectancy. Pathologically, accumulated beta-amyloid (Aβ) 
aggregates and hyperphosphorylated tau protein is the hallmark of the disease. 
Although changes in cellular function and protein accumulates have been 
demonstrated in many different AD animal models, the molecular mechanism 
involved in different cellular functions and the correlation and causative 
relation between different protein accumulations remain elusive. Our in vivo 
genetic studies revealed that the molecular mechanisms involved in memory loss 
and lifespan shortening are different and that tau plays an essential role in 
mediating Aβ-induced early death. We found that when the first deacetylase (DAC) 
domain of histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) activity was increased, it regulated 
cortactin deacetylation to reverse Aβ-induced learning and memory deficit, but 
with no effect on the lifespan of the Aβ flies. On the other hand, an increased 
amount of the second DAC domain of HDAC6 promoted tau phosphorylation to 
facilitate Aβ-induced lifespan shortening without affecting learning performance 
in the Aβ flies. Our data also confirmed decreased acetylation in two major 
HDAC6 downstream proteins, suggesting increased HDAC6 activity in Aβ flies. Our 
data established the double-edged sword effect of HDAC6 activity in Aβ-induced 
pathologies. Not only did we segregate memory loss and lifespan shortening in Aβ 
flies, but we also provided evidence to link the Aβ with tau signaling.

© 2021 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.202101061R
PMID: 34907598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Cell Physiol Biochem. 2021 Dec 15;55(6):773-783. doi: 10.33594/000000475.

Apolipoprotein E4 as a Novel Treatment Target for Alzheimer's Disease.

Jervies JL(1), King SP(1), Suphioglu C(2).

Author information:
(1)NeuroAllergy Research Laboratory (NARL), School of Life and Environmental 
Sciences (LES), Faculty of Science, Engineering and Built Environment (SEBE), 
Deakin University, Waurn Ponds, Victoria, Australia.
(2)NeuroAllergy Research Laboratory (NARL), School of Life and Environmental 
Sciences (LES), Faculty of Science, Engineering and Built Environment (SEBE), 
Deakin University, Waurn Ponds, Victoria, Australia, 
cenk.suphioglu@deakin.edu.au.

The importance of Alzheime's Disease (AD) research has never been greater from a 
worldwide perspective with the disease becoming increasingly prevalent with life 
expectancy on the rise. One emerging factor that has presented as a serious risk 
that still requires more research and understanding is the role and effects of 
Apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4). When present, individuals are three times more likely 
to develop AD in their lifetime. This is due to ApoE4's ability to not only 
increase amyloid beta plaque aggregation ApoE4 also increases 
hyperphosphorylation of tau causing neurofibrillary tangles. These two factors 
are the well-known hallmarks for AD, which increase the importance for ApoE4 
research as it affects both major aspects. Treatment for AD has always been an 
issue due to a variety of factors with only a few approved for use today. These 
approved treatments are only to ease and supress symptoms rather than treating 
the disease. Dementia symptoms such as memory loss, language problems, motor 
skills, irritability and paranoia are all symptoms that destroy patient's 
ability to function in their communities. Inhibiting ApoE4 and reducing its 
toxic effects is a promising theory that has the ability to extend AD patients' 
lifespan and prolong capable brain function limiting brain tissue degradation.

© Copyright by the Author(s). Published by Cell Physiol Biochem Press.

DOI: 10.33594/000000475
PMID: 34907696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. J Appl Biomed. 2021 Mar;19(1):73-82. doi: 10.32725/jab.2021.002. Epub 2021
Jan  27.

Contributory role of ART in the development of non-AIDS comorbidities in 
asymptomatic PLWHA.

Tasca KI(1), Fagundes Vidal VVM(2), Martinez Manfio V(3), Naime Barbosa A(2)(3), 
de Souza LDR(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Sao Paulo State University - UNESP, Institute of Biosciences of Botucatu, 
Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Botucatu, Sao Paulo State, Brazil.
(2)Specialist Outpatient Service for Infectious Diseases "Domingos Alves Meira" 
(SAEI-DAM), Botucatu, Sao Paulo State, Brazil.
(3)Sao Paulo State University - UNESP, Botucatu Medical School, Department of 
Tropical Diseases and Imaging Diagnosis, Botucatu, Sao Paulo State, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Despite the many benefits that follow antiretroviral therapy (ART) 
initiation, its chronic use contributes to the early aging of people living with 
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). The aim of this cross-sectional study was to trace the 
prevalence of and investigate possible renal, bone and metabolic changes, as 
well as cardiovascular risk in 94 asymptomatic PLWHA, relating them to the 
duration of ART use.
METHODS: Four groups were evaluated according to ART use: G1 (n = 21), ART-naïve 
individuals; G2 (n = 17), <2 years; G3 (n = 40), 2-10 years; and G4 (n = 16) on 
ART for more than 10 years.
RESULTS: Our results showed a high prevalence of dyslipidemic individuals (64%), 
especially in those under ART. Lower creatine phosphokinase levels were observed 
in G1 as compared to the others (p < 0.05). Regarding the Framingham score, 
12.1% of PLWHA showed moderate and high risk, and the highest proportion (38.5%) 
occurred in G4 (p = 0.003). A decrease in glomerular filtration rates occurred 
in 20% of patients, which was also more significant in G3 and G4 (p = 0.007). 
High prevalences of osteopenia and osteoporosis (53.2%) were found, especially 
in G1 and G4; however, G1 showed the lowest means for alkaline phosphatases (AP, 
p = 0.04 and BAP, p = 0.005) and osteocalcin (p = 0.005), in addition to higher 
vitamin-D concentrations (p = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study showed the possible contributory role of ART in these 
changes, which leads us to reflect on the need for specific conducts and patient 
care, pointing out the importance of individualized care in an attempt to 
increase life expectancy.

DOI: 10.32725/jab.2021.002
PMID: 34907718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


113. Clin Neuropsychiatry. 2020 Aug;17(4):209-216. doi: 
10.36131/cnfioritieditore20200402.

Psychosomatic Syndromes and Symptom Severity in Chronic Psoriasis.

Petito A(1), Piazzoli A(2), Altamura M(1), Bellomo A(1), Bernardini F(3), 
Scarponi L(2), Porcelli P(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Psychiatry Unit, University 
of Foggia, Italy.
(2)Territorial Mental Health Center USL Umbria 2, Perugia, Italy.
(3)SPDC Pordenone, Department of Mental Health, AsFO Friuli Occidentale, Italian 
NHS, Pordenone, Italy.
(4)Department of Psychological, Health, and Territorial Sciences, University of 
Chieti, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether and the extent to which psychosomatic 
syndromes and psychopathology are associated to psoriasis severity.
METHOD: Consecutive 282 outpatients with chronic psoriasis were assessed for 
psychopathology (with the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview), 
psychosomatic conditions (with the Diagnostic Criteria for Psychosomatic 
Research, DCPR), severity of psoriatic symptoms (with the Psoriasis Area and 
Severity Index, PASI), and illness-related quality of life (with the Dermatology 
Life Quality Index, DLQI).
RESULTS: Psychopathology was diagnosed in 26.6% patients while at least one DCPR 
syndrome in 67% of them and higher psychosomatic severity (>1 DCPR syndrome) in 
29.1%. Higher symptom severity (PASI>20) was significantly more prevalent in 
patients with greater psychosomatic severity (29.1%) (d=1.25) - particularly, 
alexithymia (29.4%; d=0.83) - and poorer quality of life (DLQI>10) (d=0.86). 
Furthermore, after controlling for psychopathology, psychosomatic severity, and 
alexithymia, together with lower illness-related quality of life, independently 
predicted severity of symptoms, with large effect size (d=0.78 and d=1.75, 
respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: DCPR clusters can be suggested as a useful tool for identifying 
psychological distress in psoriasis, significantly linked to both subjective 
(quality of life) and objective factors (severity of lesions and extension of 
affected skin areas) of the illness experience.

© 2020 Giovanni Fioriti Editore s.r.l.

DOI: 10.36131/cnfioritieditore20200402
PMCID: PMC8629045
PMID: 34908996

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


114. Clin Neuropsychiatry. 2021 Feb;18(1):3-12. doi: 
10.36131/cnfioritieditore20210101.

A Cross-Sectional Study Examining the Relationship Between Socio-Demographics 
and Coping Styles in a Group of Cancer Patients.

Faraci P(1), Bottaro R(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Human and Social Sciences - University of Enna "Kore" Cittadella 
Universitaria - 94100 Enna, Italy; Phone number: +39 0935 536536.

OBJECTIVE: The global number of oncological patients is expected to rise 
worldwide. However, the increase in the number of cases is linked with an 
increase in life expectancy. Hence, it's worth knowing about patients' resources 
for managing life with chronic illness. Specifically, the present study was 
aimed to examine the association between socio-demographic characteristics and 
coping strategies.
METHOD: Participants were one-hundred and twenty-one cancer patients (70.2% 
females), aged 26 to 88 years (M=61.90, SD=12.16). Socio-demographic 
characteristics and coping styles were measured by a self-report questionnaire 
and the mini-Mental Adjustment to Cancer Scale. A series of standard multiple 
regression analyses were performed to predict coping styles based on gender, 
age, education level, marital status, working status, disability pension, 
income, and time since diagnosis at the moment of the survey.
RESULTS: The female gender showed a positive association with hopelessness/ 
helplessness, anxious preoccupation, fatalism, and avoidance. Being a worker 
seemed positively related to the fighting spirit strategy. Age, marital status, 
and disability pension did not reveal any association with coping. Having an 
active-work status was positively associated with fighting spirit. Finally, both 
educational level and income were negatively associated with the use of fatalism 
coping strategy, whereas the cancer patients with longer elapsed time since 
diagnosis showed tendency to fatalism style.
CONCLUSIONS: Consistent with the recognized relevance of individual differences 
for gathering data about patients' risk and protective factors, our findings 
might be useful for both research purpose and clinical practice.

© 2021 Giovanni Fioriti Editore s.r.l.

DOI: 10.36131/cnfioritieditore20210101
PMCID: PMC8629058
PMID: 34909016

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


115. Cureus. 2021 Nov 6;13(11):e19323. doi: 10.7759/cureus.19323. eCollection
2021  Nov.

Orbital Cellulitis in a Patient With Sphenoid Wing Meningioma.

Gunasekaran T(1)(2), Teow Kheng Leong K(2), Tze Hui P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hospital Seri Manjung, Sitiawan, MYS.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Hospital Bintulu, Bintulu, MYS.

We report a case of a 43-year-old woman with an underlying right sphenoid wing 
meningioma (SWM) who complained of increased right eye swelling, 
proptosis, redness and severe pain for two weeks. Her symptoms started one week 
after completing radiotherapy. She seeked treatment after a worsening of 
symptoms. An urgent computed tomography (CT) scan of the brain was done and 
showed increasing extension of tumour and hypodense areas within intraorbital 
region of the tumour with intraorbital fat stranding. She was treated as right 
eye orbital cellulitis with a differential diagnosis of tumour lysis syndrome. 
She was started on a combination of intravenous antibiotics and improvements 
were noticed after two days of treatment. This report presents the diagnostic 
challenge in managing orbital swelling in a patient with sphenoid wing 
meningioma with inconclusive radiological findings. Orbital cellulitis is an 
ocular emergency that requires prompt treatment and can potentially be vision 
and life-threatening, if not addressed early. In such cases with diagnostic 
dilemma, the decision to treat should be made as early as possible.

Copyright © 2021, Gunasekaran et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.19323
PMCID: PMC8653855
PMID: 34909289

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


116. Curr Res Pharmacol Drug Discov. 2021 Aug 8;2:100044. doi: 
10.1016/j.crphar.2021.100044. eCollection 2021.

Pharmacokinetic drug interactions of integrase strand transfer inhibitors.

Lu CH(1), Bednarczyk EM(1), Catanzaro LM(1), Shon A(2), Xu JC(1), Ma Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, Jacobs School of Medicine & Biomedical Sciences, 
University at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, USA.

The integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI)-containing regimens are 
currently considered as the first-line treatment of human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) infection. Although possessing a common mechanism of action to inhibit HIV 
integrase irreversibly to stop HIV replication cycle, the INSTIs, including 
raltegravir, elvitegravir, dolutegravir, and bictegravir, differ in 
pharmacokinetic characteristics. While raltegravir undergoes biotransformation 
by the UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs), elvitegravir is primarily 
metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 and co-formulated with cobicistat to 
increase its plasma exposure. The metabolism pathways of dolutegravir and 
