PMID: 34882335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2021 Nov;29(6):1601-1606.
 doi: 10.32687/0869-866X-2021-29-6-1601-1606.

[The experience of reforming primary health care in conditions of demographic 
trends of average population age increasing].

[Article in Russian]

Nikolaeva IV(1), Zhernakova NI(2), Lebedev TY(3), Moskalev AA(3).

Author information:
(1)The Department of Health Care and Social Protection of Population of the 
Belgorod Oblast, 308005, Belgorod, Russia.
(2)The Federal State Autonomous Educational Institution of Higher Education "The 
Belgorod State National Research University", 308015, Belgorod, Russia, 
zhernakova@bsu.edu.ru.
(3)The Federal State Autonomous Educational Institution of Higher Education "The 
Belgorod State National Research University", 308015, Belgorod, Russia.

The article presents experience of reforming of primary health care in the 
Belgorod Oblast in 2016-2019. In the course of reforming the original 
organizational model of interaction between doctors and patients developed and 
implemented. The measures were applied to strengthen the material-technical base 
and personnel potential of primary medical care. The offices of General 
Practitioners were arranged within step accessibility for patients. The 
continuous training of family physicians was organized at the workplace. The 
unified regional medical information system was developed and implemented 
enabling corporate conference communication, remote consultations, population 
feedback and remote arrangement of making appointment with physician. The 
differentiated approach to medical personnel remuneration of labor was brought 
on the basis of key performance indices that permitted to increase their salary 
and quality of work. As a result of the reforms, the percentage of people 
covered by family physicians dispensary observation increased by 13%, number of 
emergency calls decreased by 3.3% and number of calls because of illness reduced 
by 17%. The mortality rate of people older than able-bodied age began to 
decrease and population life expectancy reached prognosticated numbers of 74 
years in 2019.

DOI: 10.32687/0869-866X-2021-29-6-1601-1606
PMID: 34882341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Annu Rev Public Health. 2022 Apr 5;43:355-373. doi: 
10.1146/annurev-publhealth-052120-012811. Epub 2021 Dec 9.

Health-Related Quality of Life Measurement in Public Health.

Kaplan RM(1), Hays RD(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Excellence Research Center, Department of Medicine, Stanford 
University, Stanford, California, USA; email: Bob.kaplan@stanford.edu.
(2)Division of General Internal Medicine and Health Services Research, 
Department of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, California, USA.

Patient-reported outcomes are recognized as essential for the evaluation of 
medical and public health interventions. Over the last 50 years, health-related 
quality of life (HRQoL) research has grown exponentially from 0 to more than 
17,000 papers published annually. We provide an overview of generic HRQoL 
measures used widely in epidemiological studies, health services research, 
population studies, and randomized clinical trials [e.g., Medical Outcomes Study 
SF-36 and the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System 
(PROMIS®)-29]. In addition, we review methods used for economic analysis and 
calculation of the quality-adjusted life year (QALY). These include the EQ-5D, 
the Health Utilities Index (HUI), the self-administered Quality of Well-being 
Scale (QWB-SA), and the Health and Activities Limitation Index (HALex). 
Furthermore, we consider hybrid measures such as the SF-6D and the 
PROMIS-Preference (PROPr). The plethora of HRQoL measures has impeded cumulative 
science because incomparable measures have been used in different studies. 
Linking among different measures and consensus on standard HRQoL measurement 
should now be prioritized. In addition, enabling widespread access to common 
measures is necessary to accelerate future progress.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-publhealth-052120-012811
PMID: 34882431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Science. 2021 Dec 10;374(6573):1377-1381. doi: 10.1126/science.abf9407. Epub 
2021 Dec 9.

Evolution of the grass leaf by primordium extension and petiole-lamina 
remodeling.

Richardson AE(1)(2)(3), Cheng J(1)(4)(5), Johnston R(6)(7), Kennaway R(1), 
Conlon BR(6), Rebocho AB(1), Kong H(4)(5), Scanlon MJ(6), Hake S(2), Coen E(1).

Author information:
(1)John Innes Centre, Norwich Research Park, Norwich NR4 7UH, UK.
(2)Agricultural Research Service/US Department of Agriculture Plant Gene 
Expression Center, Albany, CA 94710, USA.
(3)Institute of Molecular Plant Science, School of Biological Sciences, 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH9 3BF, UK.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, CAS Center for 
Excellence in Molecular Plant Sciences, Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Beijing 100093, China.
(5)College of Life Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 
100049, China.
(6)Plant Biology Section, School of Integrative Plant Science, Cornell 
University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA.
(7)The Elshire Group Limited, Palmerston North 4472, New Zealand.

The sheathing leaf found in grasses and other monocots is an evolutionary 
innovation, yet its origin has been a subject of long-standing debate. Here, we 
revisit the problem in the light of developmental genetics and computational 
modeling. We show that the sheathing leaf likely arose through 
WOX-gene-dependent extension of a primordial zone straddling concentric domains 
around the shoot apex. Patterned growth within this zone, oriented by two 
polarity fields, accounts for wild-type, mutant and mosaic grass leaf 
development, whereas zone contraction and growth remodeling accounts for eudicot 
leaf development. In contrast to the prevailing view, our results suggest that 
the sheath derives from petiole, whereas the blade derives from the lamina of 
the eudicot leaf, consistent with homologies proposed in the 19th century.

DOI: 10.1126/science.abf9407
PMID: 34882477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Am J Nurs. 2022 Jan 1;122(1):32-43. doi: 10.1097/01.NAJ.0000805640.82646.ac.

CE: Diagnosing and Managing Migraine.

Goetz A(1), McCormick S, Phillips R, Friedman D.

Author information:
(1)Allene Goetz is a board-certified clinical nurse specialist and Samantha 
McCormick is a board-certified physician assistant, both in the Headache and 
Facial Pain program in the Department of Neurology at UT Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, TX. Rosemary Phillips is a triage nurse in the Department of 
Neurology and Deborah Friedman is a professor in the Departments of Neurology 
and Ophthalmology at UT Southwestern Medical Center. Contact author: Deborah 
Friedman, deborah.friedman@utsouthwestern.edu . The authors acknowledge Karen 
Lee-Roig for her artwork depicting her personal experience with migraine. 
Deborah Friedman serves on advisory boards for Allergan/AbbVie, Biohaven 
Pharmaceuticals, Lundbeck, Impel NeuroPharma, and Eli Lilly, and receives 
research support from Allergan/AbbVie and Eli Lilly. Lippincott Professional 
Development has identified and resolved all conflicts of interest concerning 
this educational activity. The remaining authors have disclosed no potential 
conflicts of interest, financial or otherwise.

Roughly 90% of the U.S. population will develop a headache within their 
lifetime, and headache disorders account for more disability-adjusted life-years 
than all other neurologic disorders combined. Among primary headache disorders, 
the two most common are tension-type headache and migraine, with migraine 
identified as the most disabling. Here, the authors describe the importance of 
differentiating primary and secondary headache disorders and discuss the 
pathophysiology; clinical assessment; and outpatient management of the 
debilitating migraine headache, summarizing both acute and prophylactic 
treatment strategies that can substantially reduce associated disability.

Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/01.NAJ.0000805640.82646.ac
PMID: 34882585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Scand J Caring Sci. 2022 Jun;36(2):346-381. doi: 10.1111/scs.13050. Epub 2021
 Dec 9.

Use of narrative methods in rehabilitation and palliative care in Scandinavian 
countries: A scoping review.

Roikjaer SG(1)(2), Gärtner HS(1)(3), Timm H(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)REHPA, The Danish Knowledge Center for Rehabilitation and Palliative Care, 
Nyborg, Denmark.
(2)Naestved, Slagelse, Ringsted Hospitals Department of Neurology, and 
Department of Physiotherapy and occupational therapy, Region Zealand, Slagelse, 
Denmark.
(3)SIF, The National Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, 
Nyborg, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Although narratives-including an ill person's life story, life 
situation and future perspectives-seem to lie at the core of rehabilitation and 
palliative care in Scandinavian countries, we lack a scope of how, when and 
where narrative methods are used. Such a scope could provide knowledge and 
inspiration on a practical as well as a policy level. The objective of this 
study is to explore the literature on the use of systematic, narrative methods 
in rehabilitative and palliative care for people with life-threatening illness 
in Scandinavian countries.
METHOD: We conducted a scoping review in accordance with Preferred Reporting 
Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews 
(PRISMA-ScR) where applicable. We performed a systematic search in CINAHL, 
Medline, PsychInfo, SOCIndex and SveMed+using the search terms 'life threatening 
illness', 'narratives', 'rehabilitation', 'palliative care' and 'Scandinavia', 
followed by a search for grey literature. We found 42 records to be eligible for 
this scope and extracted the data via piloted extraction tables.
RESULTS: We identified 17 narrative methods and present findings concerning four 
themes: (1) a record of the narrative methods used; (2) an objective and 
theoretical framework for the narrative methods; (3) the content and form of the 
narrative methods; and (4) the significance of the narrative methods used.
CONCLUSION: Narrative methods are used in systematic ways in rehabilitation and 
palliative care in Scandinavian countries and cover a wide variety of 
objectives, theoretical frames, forms and outcomes. Further development may 
benefit from more elaboration on definitions and the relationships between 
objectives, theoretical frameworks and outcomes.

© 2021 Nordic College of Caring Science.

DOI: 10.1111/scs.13050
PMID: 34882807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Rev Environ Health. 2021 Dec 10;38(1):85-96. doi: 10.1515/reveh-2021-0116.
Print  2023 Mar 28.

Interventions of Unani medicine for maintenance of health with special reference 
to air quality: an evidence-based review.

Akhlaq S(1), Ara SA(1), Ahmad B(1), Fazil M(1), Akram U(1), Haque M(1), Khan 
AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Unani, CCRUM, New Delhi, India.

OBJECTIVES: This article aims to discuss the impact of air quality on human 
health, measures to achieve the goal of good indoor air quality and proposed 
benefits of interventions of Unani Medicine with an evidence-based approach.
CONTENT: The significance of air quality on the health of the community cannot 
be denied. Recent evidences from WHO illustrated data on severe air pollutants 
and their impacts on human health ranges from minor upper respiratory irritation 
to chronic respiratory ailments including lung carcinoma and heart disease 
associated with premature mortality and reduced life expectancy. In Unani 
Medicine, air has been included in the list of factors, which are six in number 
and play the central role in prevention of diseases and maintenance of health. 
Air is considered as the medium of most of the extrinsic factors such as 
chemical and biological pollutants affecting health and their exposure results 
in short and long-term health issues. The literature of Unani Medicine proposes 
many simple and effective measures, which help to improve indoor and outdoor air 
quality. The goal of outdoor clean air is achieved through implementation of 
measures to tackle the source of pollution, while indoor clean air is attained 
through various means e.g., fumigation with herbal drugs. Hence, an extensive 
literature survey on Unani reserve was conducted to collect information about 
the concept of air discussed under the heading of six essential factors and its 
implication in prevention of diseases and maintenance of health. Further, 
research databases such as Pub Med, Google Scholar, and Science-Direct were 
broadly searched for evidence on the efficacy of herbals mentioned in Unani 
literature for the indoor air purification and subsequent air quality 
improvement.
SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK: Recent studies showed good air quality leads to decrease in 
mortality, particularly of respiratory and cardiovascular deaths whereas poor 
air quality results in a variety of diseases. Unani scholars prescribed several 
regimens such as Bukhoor (Fumigation), Sa'oot (Nasal instillation) and use of 
Abeer (Perfumes) and Nadd (Incense) for the improvement of air quality. Likewise 
various herbal fumigants and sprays containing drugs like mī'a sā'ila 
(Liquidambar orientalis Mill.), mastagi (Pistacia lentiscus L.), mushk (Moschus 
moschiferus L.), loban (Styrax benzoides W. G. Craib), ābnoos (Diospyros ebenum 
J. Koenig ex Retz), zā'fran (Crocus sativus L.) and sirka (vinegar) etc. has 
been well explained and used exclusively for air purification and improvement of 
AQI. Therefore, in the present scenario of altered air quality, we forward 
certain measures described in Unani system of medicine for health promotion and 
protection. Scientific evidence on several drugs reveal the presence of a number 
of pharmacologically active substances, which may provide a new approach into 
the purification of air.

© 2021 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/reveh-2021-0116
PMID: 34883008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Urology. 2022 Mar;161:93-95. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2021.11.028. Epub 2021
Dec  6.

Bladder Cancer in a Long-term Survivor of the Prune Belly Syndrome.

Kondo F(1), Matsumoto F(2), Suenaga S(1), Matsui F(1), Yazawa K(1), Nagahara 
A(3), Nishimura K(3), Ishizuya Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Osaka Woman's and Children's Hospital, Osaka, Japan.
(2)Department of Urology, Osaka Woman's and Children's Hospital, Osaka, Japan. 
Electronic address: fumim@wch.opho.jp.
(3)Department of Urology, Osaka International Cancer Institute, Osaka, Japan.
(4)Department of Urology, Higashiosaka City Medical Center, Osaka, Japan.

Prune belly syndrome (PBS) is a rare but morbid complexity of congenital 
anomalies that consists of abdominal wall defect, bilateral cryptorchidism, and 
urinary tract dilation. With the recent advances in perinatal care, the life 
expectancy of patients with PBS has improved. Although renal and sexual outcomes 
are frequently discussed in the literature, little is known about urinary tract 
malignancies in adulthood. Herein, we present a case of advanced bladder cancer 
in a 38-year-old man with PBS. To the best of our knowledge, a malignant tumor 
arising in a nondefunctionalized or nonaugmented bladder in patients with PBS 
has not been reported previously.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2021.11.028
PMID: 34883158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2022 Mar-Apr;99:104600. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2021.104600. Epub 2021 Dec 1.

Health and life satisfaction factors of Portuguese older adults.

Tavares AI(1).

Author information:
(1)ISEG, Lisbon School of Economics and Management, University of Lisbon, 
Lisbon, Portugal; CEISUC, Centre of Studies and Research in Health of the 
University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. Electronic address: 
atavares@iseg.ulisboa.pt.

Portugal has some peculiar features concerning older age. Despite long life 
expectancy, the share of healthy life years in older ages is small. The 
decreasing relationship between age and life satisfaction in Portugal has 
recently been pointed out. The absence of knowledge about self-assessed health 
and life satisfaction of the population of older Portuguese motivates this 
analysis. This work aims to find the drivers of self-assessed health and life 
satisfaction and their relationship for older Portuguese (older than 70). Two 
ordered logistic regressions are estimated using data from the National Health 
Survey of 2019. Endogeneity of self-assessed health is tested in the regression 
of life satisfaction. The main descriptive result shows that older people in 
Portugal tend to report a low health status but a high level of life 
satisfaction. We also found that despite the general decrease across age and 
after controlling for determinants, life satisfaction seems to display a 
U-shape, and the likelihood of being life satisfied increases with age from the 
age group of 70-74 on. The main determinants of self-assessed health and life 
satisfaction include the existence of chronic diseases, physical limitations in 
daily life, and depression indicators. But the findings also show that social 
interactions and income play a part in the way people report health and life 
satisfaction. Some policy measures could be taken to jointly improve the health 
and life satisfaction.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2021.104600
PMID: 34883397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Korean J Intern Med. 2022 Sep;37(5):1061-1069. doi: 10.3904/kjim.2021.018.
Epub  2021 Dec 13.

Two-year clinical outcomes after discontinuation of long-term golimumab therapy 
in Korean patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

Shin K(1), Kwon HM(2), Kim MJ(1), Yoon MJ(2), Chai HG(2), Kang SW(3), Park W(4), 
Park SH(5), Suh CH(6), Kim HA(7), Lee SG(8), Lee CK(9), Bae SC(10), Park YB(11), 
Song YW(2)(12).

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Seoul Metropolitan Government Seoul National 
University Boramae Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National 
University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Division of Rheumatology, Chungnam National University Hospital, Daejeon, 
Korea.
(4)Division of Rheumatology, Inha University Hospital, Incheon, Korea.
(5)Division of Rheumatology, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, The 
Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.
(6)Division of Rheumatology, Ajou University Hospital, Suwon, Korea.
(7)Division of Rheumatology, Hallym University Sacred Heart Hospital, Anyang, 
Korea.
(8)Division of Rheumatology, Pusan National University Hospital, Busan, Korea.
(9)Division of Rheumatology, Yeungnam University Medical Center, Daegu, Korea.
(10)Division of Rheumatology, Hanyang University Seoul Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(11)Division of Rheumatology, Severance Hospital, Yonsei University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(12)Department of Molecular Medicine and Biopharmaceutical Sciences, Graduate 
School of Convergence Science and Technology, and College of Medicine, Medical 
Research Center, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: The aim of this study was to investigate long-term 
post-discontinuation outcomes in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who had 
been treated with tumor necrosis factor-α inhibitors (TNF-αi) which was then 
discontinued.
METHODS: Sixty Korean patients with RA who participated in a 5-year GO-BEFORE 
and GO-FORWARD extension trials were included in this retrospective study. 
Golimumab was deliberately discontinued after the extension study (baseline). 
Patients were then followed by their rheumatologists. We reviewed their medical 
records for 2 years (max 28 months) following golimumab discontinuation. 
Patients were divided into a maintained benefit (MB) group and a loss-of-benefit 
(LB) group based on treatment pattern after golimumab discontinuation. The LB 
group included patients whose conventional disease-modifying antirheumatic 
drug(s) were stepped-up or added/switched (SC) and those who restarted biologic 
therapy (RB).
RESULTS: The mean age of patients at baseline was 56.5 years and 55 (91.7%) were 
females. At the end of follow-up, 23 (38.3%) patients remained in the MB group. 
In the LB group, 75.7% and 24.3% were assigned into SC and RB subgroups, 
respectively. Fifty percent of patients lost MB after 23.3 months. Demographics 
and clinical variables at baseline were comparable between MB and LB groups 
except for age, C-reactive protein level, and corticosteroid use. Restarting 
biologic therapy was associated with swollen joint count (adjusted hazard ratio 
[HR], 1.90; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.01 to 3.55) and disease duration 
(adjusted HR, 1.12; 95% CI, 1.02 to 1.23) at baseline.
CONCLUSION: Treatment strategies after discontinuing TNF-αi are needed to better 
maintain disease control and quality of life of patients with RA.

DOI: 10.3904/kjim.2021.018
PMCID: PMC9449209
PMID: 34883551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


47. J Clin Med. 2021 Nov 24;10(23):5496. doi: 10.3390/jcm10235496.

Retinal Diseases Regulated by Hypoxia-Basic and Clinical Perspectives: A 
Comprehensive Review.

Shinojima A(1)(2), Lee D(1)(2), Tsubota K(2)(3), Negishi K(2), Kurihara T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Photobiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo 
160-8582, Japan.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo 
160-8582, Japan.
(3)Tsubota Laboratory, Inc., Tokyo 160-0016, Japan.

In recent years, the number of patients with age-related macular degeneration 
(AMD) is increasing worldwide along with increased life expectancy. Currently, 
the standard treatment for wet-AMD is intravitreal injection of anti-vascular 
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) drugs. The upstream of VEGF is 
hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF), a master regulator of hypoxia-responsive genes 
responsive to acute and chronic hypoxia. HIF activation induces various 
pathological pro-angiogenic gene expressions including VEGF under retinal 
hypoxia, ultimately leading to the development of ocular ischemic neovascular 
diseases. In this regard, HIF is considered as a promising therapeutic target in 
ocular ischemic diseases. In clinical ophthalmology, abnormal hypofluorescent 
areas have been detected in the late-phase of indocyanine green angiography, 
which are thought to be lipid deposits at the level of Bruch's membrane to 
choriocapillaris in vitreoretinal diseases. These deposits may interfere with 
the oxygen and nutrients that should be supplied to the retinal pigment 
epithelium, and that HIF/VEGF is highly suspected to be expressed in the hypoxic 
retinal pigment epithelium, leading to neovascularization. In this review, we 
comprehensively summarize pathophysiology of AMD-related ocular diseases with 
the HIF/VEGF pathway from basic and clinic researches with recent findings.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm10235496
PMCID: PMC8658588
PMID: 34884197

Conflict of interest statement: Outside the submitted work, Kazuo Tsubota 
reports his position as CEO of Tsubota Laboratory, Inc., Tokyo, Japan, a company 
producing myopia-related devices. Other authors (A.S., D.L., K.N. and T.K.) 
declare no conflict of interest. The funders had no role in the design of the 
study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of 
the manuscript, or in the decision to publish the results.


48. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Nov 28;22(23):12873. doi: 10.3390/ijms222312873.

Comparative Metabolomic Study of Drosophila Species with Different Lifespans.

Maslov DL(1), Zemskaya NV(2), Trifonova OP(1), Lichtenberg S(1)(3), Balashova 
EE(1), Lisitsa AV(1), Moskalev AA(2), Lokhov PG(1).

Author information:
(1)Analytical Branch, Institute of Biomedical Chemistry, 10 Building 8, 
Pogodinskaya Street, 119121 Moscow, Russia.
(2)Laboratory of Geroprotective and Radioprotective Technologies, Komi Science 
Center, Institute of Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, 167982 Syktyvkar, 
Russia.
(3)Metabometrics Inc., 651 N Broad Street, Suite 205 #1370, Middletown, DE 
19709, USA.

The increase in life expectancy, leading to a rise in the proportion of older 
people, is accompanied by a prevalence of age-related disorders among the world 
population, the fight against which today is one of the leading biomedical 
challenges. Exploring the biological insights concerning the lifespan is one of 
the ways to provide a background for designing an effective treatment for the 
increase in healthy years of life. Untargeted direct injection mass 
spectrometry-based metabolite profiling of 12 species of Drosophila with 
significant variations in natural lifespans was conducted in this research. A 
cross-comparison study of metabolomic profiles revealed lifespan signatures of 
flies. These signatures indicate that lifespan extension is associated with the 
upregulation of amino acids, phospholipids, and carbohydrate metabolism. Such 
information provides a metabolome-level view on longevity and may provide a 
molecular measure of organism age in age-related studies.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms222312873
PMCID: PMC8657752
PMID: 34884677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


49. Cancers (Basel). 2021 Nov 28;13(23):5981. doi: 10.3390/cancers13235981.

Molecular Mechanisms of Resistance to Immunotherapy and Antiangiogenic 
Treatments in Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma.

Ballesteros PÁ(1), Chamorro J(1), Román-Gil MS(1), Pozas J(1), Gómez Dos Santos 
V(2), Granados ÁR(1), Grande E(3), Alonso-Gordoa T(4), Molina-Cerrillo J(4).

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Department, Ramón y Cajal University Hospital, 28034 Madrid, 
Spain.
(2)Urology Department, Ramón y Cajal University Hospital, Alcala University, 
28034 Madrid, Spain.
(3)MD Anderson Cancer Center, 28033 Madrid, Spain.
(4)Medical Oncology Department, Ramón y Cajal University Hospital, Medical 
School, Alcala University, 28034 Madrid, Spain.

Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the most common histological subtype 
arising from renal cell carcinomas. This tumor is characterized by a predominant 
angiogenic and immunogenic microenvironment that interplay with stromal, immune 
cells, and tumoral cells. Despite the obscure prognosis traditionally related to 
this entity, strategies including angiogenesis inhibition with tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors (TKIs), as well as the enhancement of the immune system with the 
inhibition of immune checkpoint proteins, such as PD-1/PDL-1 and CTLA-4, have 
revolutionized the treatment landscape. This approach has achieved a substantial 
improvement in life expectancy and quality of life from patients with advanced 
ccRCC. Unfortunately, not all patients benefit from this success as most 
patients will finally progress to these therapies and, even worse, approximately 
5 to 30% of patients will primarily progress. In the last few years, preclinical 
and clinical research have been conducted to decode the biological basis 
underlying the resistance mechanisms regarding angiogenic and immune-based 
therapy. In this review, we summarize the insights of these molecular 
alterations to understand the resistance pathways related to the treatment with 
TKI and immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). Moreover, we include additional 
information on novel approaches that are currently under research to overcome 
these resistance alterations in preclinical studies and early phase clinical 
trials.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers13235981
PMCID: PMC8656474
PMID: 34885091

Conflict of interest statement: EG has received honoraria for speaker 
engagements, advisory roles or funding of continuous medical education from 
Adacap, AMGEN, Angelini, Astellas, Astra Zeneca, Bayer, Blueprint, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Caris Life Sciences, Celgene, Clovis-Oncology, Eisai, Eusa Pharma, 
Genetracer, Guardant Health, HRA-Pharma, IPSEN, ITM-Radiopharma, Janssen, 
Lexicon, Lilly, Merck KGaA, MSD, Nanostring Technologies, Natera, Novartis, 
ONCODNA (Biosequence), Palex, Pharmamar, Pierre Fabre, Pfizer, Roche, 
Sanofi-Genzyme, Servier, Taiho, and Thermo Fisher Scientific. EG has received 
research grants from Pfizer, Astra Zeneca, Astellas, and Lexicon 
Pharmaceuticals. JMC declares consultant, advisory or speaker roles for IPSEN, 
Roche, Pfizer, Sanofi, Janssen, and BMS. JMC has received research grants from 
Pfizer, IPSEN and Roche. TAG declares consultant, advisory or speaker roles for 
Ipsen, Pfizer, Roche, Bayer, Sanofi-Genzyme, Adacap, Janssen, Eisai, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb. TAG has received research grants from Pfizer, IPSEN and 
Roche. The other authors declare no conflicts of interest or state.


50. Cancers (Basel). 2021 Dec 2;13(23):6070. doi: 10.3390/cancers13236070.

Oncologic Impact and Safety of Pre-Operative Radiotherapy in Localized Prostate 
and Bladder Cancer: A Comprehensive Review from the Cancerology Committee of the 
Association Française d'Urologie.

Sargos P(1), Supiot S(2), Créhange G(3), Fromont-Hankard G(4), Barret E(5), 
Beauval JB(6), Brureau L(7), Dariane C(8), Fiard G(9), Gauthé M(10), Mathieu 
R(11), Roubaud G(12), Ruffion A(13)(14), Renard-Penna R(15), Neuzillet Y(16), 
Rouprêt M(17), Ploussard G(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, Institut Bergonié, 33000 Bordeaux, France.
(2)Department of Radiotherapy, Insitut de Cancérologie de l'Ouest, 44800 
St-Herblain, France.
(3)Department of Radiotherapy, Institut Curie, 75005 Paris, France.
(4)Department of Pathology, CHRU Tours, 37000 Tours, France.
(5)Department of Urology, Institut Mutualiste Montsouris, 75014 Paris, France.
(6)Department of Urology, La Croix du Sud Hôpital, 31130 Quint Fonsegrives, 
France.
(7)Department of Urology, CHU de Pointe-à-Pitre, University of Antilles, 
University of Rennes, Inserm, EHESP, Irset (Institut de Recherche en Santé, 
Environnement et Travail)-UMR_S 1085, 97110 Pointe-à-Pitre, France.
(8)Department of Urology, Hôpital Européen Georges-Pompidou, APHP, Paris-Paris 
University-U1151 Inserm-INEM, Necker, 75015 Paris, France.
(9)Department of Urology, Grenoble Alpes University Hospital, Université 
Grenoble Alpes, CNRS, Grenoble INP, TIMC-IMAG, 38000 Grenoble, France.
(10)Unité de Recherche Clinique en Économie de la Santé, CRESS METHODS INSERM 
UMR 1153, 75000 Paris, France.
(11)Department of Urology, CHU Rennes, 35033 Rennes, France.
(12)Department of Medical Oncology, Institut Bergonié, 33000 Bordeaux, France.
(13)Service d'Urologie Centre Hospitalier Lyon Sud, Hospices Civils de Lyon, 
69002 Lyon, France.
(14)Equipe 2, Centre d'Innovation en Cancérologie de Lyon (EA 3738 CICLY), 
Faculté de Médecine Lyon Sud, Université Lyon 1, 69002 Lyon, France.
(15)Department of Radiology, Sorbonne University, AP-HP, Pitie-Salpetriere 
Hospital, 75013 Paris, France.
(16)Department of Urology, Hôpital Foch, 92151 Suresnes, France.
(17)Department of Urology, Sorbonne University, GRC 5 Predictive Onco-Uro, 
AP-HP, Pitie-Salpetriere Hospital, 75013 Paris, France.

Preoperative radiotherapy (RT) is commonly used for the treatment of various 
malignancies, including sarcomas, rectal, and gynaecological cancers, but it is 
preferentially used as a competitive treatment to radical surgery in 
uro-oncology or as a salvage procedure in cases of local recurrence. 
Nevertheless, preoperative RT represents an attractive strategy to prevent from 
intraoperative tumor seeding in the operative field, to sterilize microscopic 
extension outside the organ, and to enhance the pathological and/or imaging 
tumor response rate. Several clinical works support this research field in 
uro-oncology. In this review article, we summarized the oncologic impact and 
safety of preoperative RT in localized prostate and muscle-invasive bladder 
cancer. Preliminary studies suggest that both modalities can be complementary as 
initial primary tumor treatments and that a pre-operative radiotherapy strategy 
could be beneficial in a well-defined population of patients who are at a very 
high-risk of local relapse. Future prospective trials are warranted to evaluate 
the oncologic benefit of such a combination of local treatments in addition to 
new life-prolonging systemic therapies, such as immunotherapy, and new 
generation hormone therapies. Moreover, the safety and the feasibility of 
salvage surgical procedures due to non-response or local recurrence after pelvic 
RT remain poorly evaluated in that context.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers13236070
PMCID: PMC8656987
PMID: 34885179

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


51. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Nov 24;18(23):12338. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph182312338.

Mortality in Inflammatory Rheumatic Diseases: Lithuanian National Registry Data 
and Systematic Review.

Dadonienė J(1)(2), Charukevič G(2), Jasionytė G(3), Staškuvienė K(3), Miltinienė 
D(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)State Research Institute Centre for Innovative Medicine, LT-08406 Vilnius, 
Lithuania.
(2)Department of Public Health, Institute of Health Sciences, Vilnius University 
Faculty of Medicine, LT-03101 Vilnius, Lithuania.
(3)Clinic of Rheumatology, Orthopaedics Traumatology and Reconstructive Surgery, 
Institute of Clinical Medicine, Vilnius University Faculty of Medicine, LT-03101 
Vilnius, Lithuania.

Despite significant improvement in survival, rheumatic diseases (RD) are 
associated with premature mortality rates comparable to cardiovascular and 
neoplastic disorders. The aim of our study was to assess mortality, causes of 
death, and life expectancy in an inflammatory RD retrospective cohort and 
compare those with the general population as well as with the results of 
previously published studies in a systematic literature review. Patients with 
the first-time diagnosis of inflammatory RD during 2012-2019 were identified and 
cross-checked for their vital status and the date of death. Sex- and 
age-standardized mortality ratios (SMR) as well as life expectancy for patients 
with inflammatory RDs were calculated. The results of a systematic literature 
review were included in meta-standardized mortality ratio calculations. 11,636 
patients with newly diagnosed RD were identified. During a total of 43,064.34 
person-years of follow-up, 950 death cases occurred. The prevailing causes of 
death for the total cohort were cardiovascular diseases and neoplasms. The age- 
and sex-adjusted SMR for the total cohort was calculated to be 1.32 (1.23; 
1.40). Patients with rheumatoid arthritis if diagnosed at age 18-19 tend to live 
for 1.63 years less than the general population, patients with 
spondyloarthritis-for 2.7 years less, patients with connective tissue 
diseases-for almost nine years less than the general population. The findings of 
our study support the hypothesis that patients with RD have a higher risk of 
mortality and lower life expectancy than the general population.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph182312338
PMCID: PMC8656671
PMID: 34886062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


52. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Dec 2;18(23):12690. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph182312690.

Economic Evaluation of Community Tuberculosis Active Case-Finding Approaches in 
Cambodia: A Quasi-Experimental Study.

Teo AKJ(1), Prem K(1)(2), Wang Y(1), Pande T(3), Smelyanskaya M(4), Gerstel 
L(5), Chry M(6), Tuot S(7)(8)(9), Yi S(1)(7)(10).

Author information:
(1)Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore, 
National University Health System, Singapore 117549, Singapore.
(2)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Faculty of Epidemiology and 
Population Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London WC1E 
7HT, UK.
(3)McGill International TB Centre, Montreal, QC H4A 3S5, Canada.
(4)Stop TB Partnership, 1218 Geneva, Switzerland.
(5)KIT Royal Tropical Institute, 1092 AD Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Cambodia Anti-Tuberculosis Association, Phnom Penh 12303, Cambodia.
(7)KHANA Centre for Population Health Research, Phnom Penh 12301, Cambodia.
(8)Faculty of Social Sciences and Humanity, Royal University of Phnom Penh, 
Phnom Penh 12150, Cambodia.
(9)Department of Community and Global Health, Graduate School of Medicine, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.
(10)Center for Global Health Research, Touro University California, Vallejo, CA 
94592, USA.

This study aimed to estimate the costs and incremental cost-effectiveness of two 
community-based tuberculosis (TB) active case-finding (ACF) strategies in 
Cambodia. We also assessed the number needed to screen and test to find one TB 
case. Program and national TB notification data from a quasi-experimental study 
of a cohort of people with TB in 12 intervention operational districts (ODs) and 
12 control ODs between November 2018 and December 2019 were analyzed. Two ACF 
interventions (ACF seed-and-recruit (ACF SAR) model and one-off roving (one-off) 
ACF) were implemented concurrently. The matched control sites included PCF only. 
We estimated costs using the program and published data in Cambodia. The primary 
outcome was disability-adjusted life years (DALY) averted over 14 months. We 
considered the gross domestic product per capita of Cambodia in 2018 as the 
cost-effectiveness threshold. ACF SAR needed to test 7.7 people with presumptive 
TB to identify one all-forms TB, while one-off ACF needed to test 22.4. The 
costs to diagnose one all-forms TB were USD 458 (ACF SAR) and USD 191 (one-off 
ACF). The incremental cost per DALY averted was USD 257 for ACF SAR and USD 204 
for one-off ACF. Community-based ACF interventions that targeted key populations 
for TB in Cambodia were highly cost-effective.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph182312690
PMCID: PMC8656683
PMID: 34886416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interest.


53. Blood Rev. 2022 May;53:100912. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2021.100912. Epub 2021 Dec
5.

Clinical burden of hemophilia in older adults: Beyond bleeding risk.

Hodroj MH(1), El Hasbani G(2), Al-Shamsi HO(3), Samaha H(4), Musallam KM(5), 
Taher AT(6).

Author information:
(1)American University of Beirut Medical Center, Beirut, Lebanon.
(2)St. Vincent's Medical Center, Bridgeport, CT, USA.
(3)Burjeel Medical City, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates; Emirates Oncology 
Society, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United 
Arab Emirates.
(4)Saint George Hospital University Medical Center, Beirut, Lebanon.
(5)Burjeel Medical City, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
(6)American University of Beirut Medical Center, Beirut, Lebanon. Electronic 
address: ataher@aub.edu.lb.

The prospect of hemophilia patients has dramatically improved in the last few 
decades with the introduction of various interventions that can effectively 
treat or prevent their bleeding risk. The life expectancy of patients can now 
reach that of the healthy population, but this has paved the way for several 
previously unrecognized morbidities to manifest in older adults with hemophilia. 
Such clinical complications are attributed to suboptimal management or poor 
access to effective therapy during childhood as well as chronicity and prolonged 
exposure to the underlying pathophysiology of the disease and its treatment. 
Complications common in the aging population are also becoming increasingly 
relevant in this vulnerable patient subgroup. In this review, we highlight 
peculiarities of such morbidities including chronic viral infections and liver 
disease, debilitating joint impairment and bone disease, cardiovascular and 
chronic kidney disease, and cancers. We also reflect on topics of special 
interest in adulthood such as sexuality.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.blre.2021.100912
PMID: 34887154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. BMJ Open. 2021 Dec 9;11(12):e051880. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-051880.

Understanding the experiences and perception of people living with HIV on 
integrative traditional East Asian medicine management in Korea: an interview 
protocol for qualitative research.

Youn I(#)(1)(2), Cheong MJ(#)(3), Kim J(4), Kim SI(5), Kim HK(6), Kwon M(1), Seo 
J(7), Nam D(8), Leem J(9).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Korean Medicine, Graduate School, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Acupuncture & Moxibustion, National Medical Center, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Rare Disease Integrated Treatment Research Center, Wankwang University 
Jangheung Integrative Medical Hospital, Jangheung, Jeollanam-do, Republic of 
Korea.
(4)Department of Internal Korean Medicine, National Medical Center, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Counseling, Dankook University, Yongin, Gyeonggi-do, Republic 
of Korea.
(6)Psychological Counseling Office, LG Electronics Gasan Research and 
Development Campus, Geumcheon-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(7)Department of Korean Neuropsychiatry, National Medical Center, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(8)Department of Acupuncture & Moxibustion, College of Korean Medicine, Kyung 
Hee University, Dongdaemun-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea julcho@naver.com 
hanisanam@daum.net.
(9)Research Center of Traditional Korean Medicine, Wonkwang University, Iksan, 
Jeollabuk-do, Republic of Korea julcho@naver.com hanisanam@daum.net.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Patients with HIV/AIDS have been able to experience the average 
life expectancy of the general population due to medical advancements. However, 
they face physical, emotional and social difficulties that worsen their quality 
of life. The pharmacological approach is often the first choice to address these 
issues, but it involves some limitations. Integrative traditional East Asian 
medicine (ITEAM) can compensate for the limitations of drugs and can be applied 
to treat physiological and psychiatric problems. In Korea, ITEAM interventions 
are easily accessible under the government insurance. However, the experiences, 
perceptions and barriers to the use of ITEAM in patients with HIV/AIDS are less 
studied. Therefore, we will interview them to explore their experiences and 
examine the strengths, limitations, barriers and improvements in the use of 
ITEAM.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This is a qualitative study using a phenomenological 
framework. We will conduct one-to-one interviews with 3-10 patients with 
HIV/AIDS who have been treated with ITEAM from March 2021 to January 2022. We 
will present semistructured open-ended questions and analyse them using 
experiential phenomenological research methods. The results will be reported in 
accordance with the Consolidated Criteria for Reporting Qualitative Studies.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This research was approved by the Institutional Review 
Board of the National Medical Center (IRB number, NMC-2101-008). The results of 
this study will be disseminated through journal articles, newspapers and 
conference proceedings.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: Clinical Research Information Service: KCT0005855; 
Pre-results.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-051880
PMCID: PMC8663099
PMID: 34887276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


55. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2022 Feb;32(2):133-140. doi: 10.1136/ijgc-2021-003004. 
Epub 2021 Dec 9.

Does obesity influence the preferred treatment approach for early-stage cervical 
cancer? A cost-effectiveness analysis.

Bohn JA(1), Hernandez-Zepeda ML(2), Hersh AR(2), Munro EG(3), Kahn JM(4), 
Caughey AB(2), Bruegl A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Oregon Health & Sciences University, 
Portland, Oregon, USA bohnj@ohsu.edu.
(2)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Oregon Health & Sciences University, 
Portland, Oregon, USA.
(3)Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, 
Oregon, USA.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Oregon Health & Sciences University, 
Portland, Oregon, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Abdominal radical hysterectomy in early-stage cervical cancer has 
higher rates of disease-free and overall survival compared with minimally 
invasive radical hysterectomy. Abdominal radical hysterectomy may be technically 
challenging at higher body mass index levels resulting in poorer surgical 
outcomes. This study sought to examine the influence of body mass index on 
outcomes and cost effectiveness between different treatments for early-stage 
cervical cancer.
METHODS: A Markov decision-analytic model was designed using TreeAge Pro 
software to compare the outcomes and costs of primary chemoradiation versus 
surgery in women with early-stage cervical cancer. The study used a theoretical 
cohort of 6000 women who were treated with abdominal radical hysterectomy, 
minimally invasive radical hysterectomy, or primary chemoradiation therapy. We 
compared the results for three body mass index groups: less than 30 kg/m2, 
30-39.9 kg/m2, and 40 kg/m2 or higher. Model inputs were derived from the 
literature. Outcomes included complications, recurrence, death, costs, and 
quality-adjusted life years. An incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of less 
than $100 000 per quality-adjusted life year was used as our willingness-to-pay 
threshold. Sensitivity analyses were performed broadly to determine the 
robustness of the results.
RESULTS: Comparing abdominal radical hysterectomy with minimally invasive 
radical hysterectomy, abdominal radical hysterectomy was associated with 526 
fewer recurrences and 382 fewer deaths compared with minimally invasive radical 
hysterectomy; however, abdominal radical hysterectomy resulted in more 
complications for each body mass index category. When the body mass index was 
40 kg/m2 or higher, abdominal radical hysterectomy became the dominant strategy 
because it led to better outcomes with lower costs than minimally invasive 
radical hysterectomy. Comparing abdominal radical hysterectomy with primary 
chemoradiation therapy, recurrence rates were similar, with more deaths 
associated with surgery across each body mass index category. Chemoradiation 
therapy became cost effective when the body mass index was 40 kg/m2 or higher.
CONCLUSION: When the body mass index is 40 kg/m2 or higher, abdominal radical 
hysterectomy is cost saving compared with minimally invasive radical 
hysterectomy and primary chemoradiation is cost effective compared with 
abdominal radical hysterectomy. Primary chemoradiation may be the optimal 
management strategy at higher body mass indexes.

© IGCS and ESGO 2022. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. 
Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/ijgc-2021-003004
PMID: 34887286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


56. Am Econ Rev. 2021 Aug;111(8):2697-2735. doi: 10.1257/aer.20190825.

Place-Based Drivers of Mortality: Evidence from Migration.

Finkelstein A(1), Gentzkow M(2), Williams H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and the 
National Bureau of Economic Research.
(2)Department of Economics, Stanford University, and the National Bureau of 
Economic Research.
(3)Department of Economics, Stanford University, and the national Bureau of 
Economics Research.

We estimate the effect of current location on elderly mortality by analyzing 
outcomes of movers in the Medicare population. We control for movers' origin 
locations as well as a rich vector of pre-move health measures. We also develop 
a novel strategy to adjust for remaining unobservables, using the correlation of 
residual mortality with movers' origins to gauge the importance of omitted 
variables. We estimate substantial effects of current location. Moving from a 
10th to a 90th percentile location would increase life expectancy at age 65 by 
1.1 years, and equalizing location effects would reduce cross-sectional 
variation in life expectancy by 15 percent. Places with favorable life 
expectancy effects tend to have higher quality and quantity of health care, less 
extreme climates, lower crime rates, and higher socioeconomic status.

DOI: 10.1257/aer.20190825
PMCID: PMC8653912
PMID: 34887592


57. Front Public Health. 2021 Nov 23;9:740800. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.740800. 
eCollection 2021.

Global Burden of Respiratory Diseases Attributable to Ambient Particulate Matter 
Pollution: Findings From the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

Wu Y(1), Song P(2), Lin S(3), Peng L(4), Li Y(3), Deng Y(3), Deng X(5), Lou 
W(5), Yang S(3), Zheng Y(1), Xiang D(6), Hu J(7), Zhu Y(3), Wang M(3), Zhai 
Z(3), Zhang D(3), Dai Z(5), Gao J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an 
Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China.
(3)Department of Oncology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an, China.
(4)Department of Respiratory Disease, Zhejiang Provincial People's Hospital, 
Hangzhou, China.
(5)Department of Breast Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(6)Celilo Cancer Center, Oregon Health Science Center Affiliated Mid-Columbia 
Medical Center, The Dalles, OR, United States.
(7)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United 
States.

Background: Exposure to ambient particulate matter pollution (APMP) is a global 
health issue that directly affects the human respiratory system. Thus, we 
estimated the spatiotemporal trends in the burden of APMP-related respiratory 
diseases from 1990 to 2019. Methods: Based on the Global Burden of Disease Study 
2019, data on the burden of APMP-related respiratory diseases were analyzed by 
age, sex, cause, and location. Joinpoint regression analysis was used to analyze 
the temporal trends in the burden of different respiratory diseases over the 30 
years. Results: Globally, in 2019, APMP contributed the most to chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), with 695.1 thousand deaths and 15.4 
million disability-adjusted life years (DALYs); however, the corresponding 
age-standardized death and DALY rates declined from 1990 to 2019. Similarly, 
although age-standardized death and DALY rates since 1990 decreased by 24% and 
40%, respectively, lower respiratory infections (LRIs) still had the second 
highest number of deaths and DALYs attributable to APMP. This was followed by 
tracheal, bronchus, and lung (TBL) cancer, which showed increased 
age-standardized death and DALY rates during the past 30 years and reached 3.78 
deaths per 100,000 persons and 84.22 DALYs per 100,000 persons in 2019. Among 
children aged < 5 years, LRIs had a huge burden attributable to APMP, whereas 
for older people, COPD was the leading cause of death and DALYs attributable to 
APMP. The APMP-related burdens of LRIs and COPD were relatively higher among 
countries with low and low-middle socio-demographic index (SDI), while countries 
with high-middle SDI showed the highest burden of TBL cancer attributable to 
APMP. Conclusions: APMP contributed substantially to the global burden of 
respiratory diseases, posing a significant threat to human health. Effective 
actions aimed at air pollution can potentially avoid an increase in the 
PM2.5-associated disease burden, especially in highly polluted areas.

Copyright © 2021 Wu, Song, Lin, Peng, Li, Deng, Deng, Lou, Yang, Zheng, Xiang, 
Hu, Zhu, Wang, Zhai, Zhang, Dai and Gao.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.740800
PMCID: PMC8650086
PMID: 34888281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


58. Circ Econ Sustain. 2021;1(4):1423-1437. doi: 10.1007/s43615-021-00035-y. Epub
 2021 Mar 21.

Detection of Urban and Environmental Changes via Remote Sensing.

Ennouri K(1), Smaoui S(2), Triki MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Amelioration and Protection of Olive Genetic Resources, Olive 
Tree Institute, University of Sfax, Sfax, Tunisia.
(2)Laboratory of Microorganisms and Biomolecules of the Center of Biotechnology 
of Sfax-Tunisia, Road of Sidi Mansour, Km 6 B.P. 1117, 3018 Sfax, Tunisia.

Rapid climate and environmental change at limited, regional, and general scales 
have been a major concern for researchers in a number of fields, such as 
topography, economy, environment, and sustainable development. Changes in land 
cover and land use have taken into account due to potential impacts on soil 
depletion, amplified run-off, water balance, and climate change. A detailed 
understanding of the characteristics of land exploitation and land structure is 
indispensable for the study of their influences on life and nature. In addition, 
urban extension is a major form of land extraction and land transformation, as 
it relates to the rise in population and the availability of financial services. 
Remote sensing records have been shown to be important for reporting and 
