(1)Department of General Biophysics, Faculty of Biology and Environmental 
Protection, University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-237 Łódź, Poland.
(2)Department of Cytobiochemistry, Faculty of Biology and Environmental 
Protection, University of Lodz, Pomorska 141/143, 90-237 Łódź, Poland.

Cancer is the second leading cause of death in humans. Despite rapid 
developments in diagnostic methods and therapies, metastasis and resistance to 
administrated drugs are the main obstacles to successful treatment. Therefore, 
the main challenge should be the diagnosis and design of optimal therapeutic 
strategies for patients to increase their chances of responding positively to 
treatment and increase their life expectancy. In many types of cancer, a 
deregulation of multiple pathways has been found. This includes disturbances in 
cellular metabolism, cell cycle, apoptosis, angiogenesis, or epigenetic 
modifications. Additionally, signals received from the microenvironment may 
significantly contribute to cancer development. Chemical agents obtained from 
natural sources seem to be very attractive alternatives to synthetic compounds. 
They can exhibit similar anti-cancer potential, usually with reduced side 
effects. It was reported that natural compounds obtained from fruits and 
vegetables, e.g., polyphenols, flavonoids, stilbenes, carotenoids and 
acetogenins, might be effective against cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. 
Several published results indicate the activity of natural compounds on protein 
expression by its influence on transcription factors. They could also be 
involved in alterations in cellular response, cell signaling and epigenetic 
modifications. Such natural components could be used in our diet for anti-cancer 
protection. In this review, the activities of natural compounds, including 
anti-cancer properties, are described. The influence of natural agents on cancer 
cell metabolism, proliferation, signal transduction and epigenetic modifications 
is highlighted.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms222413659
PMCID: PMC8708931
PMID: 34948455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


243. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Dec 14;18(24):13162. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph182413162.

Characterizing Trends in Lung Cancer Mortality Attributable to Airborne 
Environmental Carcinogens.

Veith M(1), McAlarney D(1), Xue X(1), Rohan TE(1), Hosgood HD 3rd(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.

Tracheal, bronchus, and lung (TBL) cancer is the leading cause of cancer death 
globally, but trends in TBL mortality attributable to tobacco, ambient 
particulate matter pollution (APMP), and household air pollution (HAP) were 
unequally distributed within global population subgroups over the last three 
decades. We used data from the Global Burden of Disease 2019 study to quantify 
the impact of sex, time, sociodemographic development index (SDI), and age for 
each exposure from 1990-2019. During that interval, tobacco dominated the TBL 
cancer mortality landscape, with its minimum global age-adjusted death rate of 
16.71 deaths/100,000 (95% Uncertainty Interval (UI): 15.27-18.13) outstripping 
maximums of 3.85 deaths/100,000 (UI: 2.82-4.83) and 2.54 deaths/100,000 (UI: 
1.69-3.54) for APMP and HAP, respectively. In 2019, tobacco male TBL death rates 
exceeded female rates by a factor of 4.4:1. Ratios of 1.9:1 for APMP and 2.1:1 
for HAP were seen. Our analysis indicates that both-sex middle SDI and female 
low, low-middle, and high-middle SDI populations are suffering increasing 
tobacco TBL burden. Efforts producing successful global reductions in 
HAP-associated TBL mortality should continue, with attention to low SDI female 
death rate increases. Finally, except for high SDI populations, global 
APMP-attributable TBL cancer burden is increasing and represents a major health 
concern.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph182413162
PMCID: PMC8701182
PMID: 34948771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


244. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Dec 14;18(24):13176. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph182413176.

Impact of Environment, Life Expectancy and Real GDP per Capita on Health 
Expenditures: Evidence from the EU Member States.

Bayar Y(1), Gavriletea MD(2), Pintea MO(3), Sechel IC(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Finance, Faculty of Economics and Administrative 
Sciences, Bandirma Onyedi Eylul University, Bandırma 10200, Turkey.
(2)Department of Business, Business Faculty, Babes-Bolyai University, 400084 
Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(3)Finance Department, Faculty of Economics and Business Administration, 
Babes-Bolyai University, 400084 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(4)Faculty of Automotive, Mechatronics and Mechanical Engineering-Technical 
University of Cluj-Napoca, 400641 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.

This research explores the impact of environment, life expectancy, and real GDP 
per capita on health expenditures in a sample of 27 EU member states over the 
2000-2018 period through causality and cointegration analyses. The causality 
analysis revealed a significant unilateral causality from variables of 
greenhouse gas emissions, life expectancy, and real GDP per capita to health 
expenditures. In other words, greenhouse gas emissions, life expectancy, and 
real GDP per capita had a significant impact on health expenditures in the short 
run. The cointegration analysis indicated that life expectancy and real GDP per 
capita had a significant positive impact on health expenditures at the overall 
panel. On the other side, the country level cointegration coefficients revealed 
that life expectancy had a considerable positive impact on health expenditures, 
real GDP per capita had a moderate positive impact on the health expenditures in 
most of the countries in the panel, but the environment proxied by greenhouse 
gas emissions had a low positive or negative impact on the health expenditures 
in a limited number of countries.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph182413176
PMCID: PMC8702070
PMID: 34948785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


245. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Dec 18;18(24):13362. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph182413362.

Risk Assessment on Suicide Death and Attempt among Chinese Rural Youths Aged 
15-34 Years.

Sun L(1)(2), Zhang J(1)(3)(4), Lamis DA(5), Wang Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Suicide Prevention Research, School of Public Health, Shandong 
University, 44 Wenhuaxi Road, Jinan 250012, China.
(2)Key Laboratory for Health Economics and Policy Research (Shandong 
University), National Health Commission of China, 44 Wenhuaxi Road, Jinan 
250012, China.
(3)Department of Sociology, Central University of Finance and Economics, 39 
Xueyuannan Road, Beijing 100081, China.
(4)Department of Sociology, State University of New York Buffalo State, 1300 
Elmwood Avenue, Buffalo, NY 14222, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University School of 
Medicine, 10 Park Place, Atlanta, GA 30303, USA.

Background: Although many suicide risk assessment tools are available in the 
world, their validity is not adequately assessed. In this study, we aimed to 
develop and evaluate a suicide risk assessment model among Chinese rural youths 
aged 15-34 years. Method: Subjects were 373 suicide deaths and 507 suicide 
attempters aged 15-34 years in three Chinese provinces (Shandong, Liaoning, and 
Hunan). Information about the community residents was also collected as the 
control groups. Social-demographic, social and psychological variables were 
examined for the suicides, suicide attempters, and community residents. Logistic 
regressions based on subjects from Shandong and Liaoning provinces were 
conducted to establish the suicide risk assessment models. Receiver operating 
characteristic (ROC) curves were drawn, and area under the ROC curves (AUC) were 
calculated to show how well the models separated the group being tested into 
those with and without suicide attempt or suicide. Results: The assessment model 
for suicide death included education years (OR = 0.773, p < 0.001), agricultural 
worker (OR = 2.091, p < 0.05), physical health (OR = 0.445, p < 0.05), family 
suicide history (OR = 6.858, p < 0.001), negative life events (OR = 1.340, p < 
0.001), hopelessness (OR = 1.171, p < 0.001), impulsivity (OR = 1.151, p < 
0.001), and mental disorder (OR = 8.384, p < 0.001). All these factors were also 
supported in the assessment model for suicide attempt, with an extension of very 
poor economic status (OR = 1.941, p < 0.01) and social interaction (OR = 0.855, 
p < 0.001). The AUC was 0.950 and 0.857 for the sample used to establish the 
assessment models of suicide death and attempt, respectively. The AUC was 0.967 
and 0.942 for the sample used to verify the established assessment models of 
suicide death and attempt, respectively. Conclusions: Compared with some other 
assessment tools, the models for suicide death and attempt in the current study 
performed well among Chinese rural youths aged 15-34 years. A reliable suicide 
risk assessment approach, which includes multiple risk factors, should be 
evaluated in various cultures and populations.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph182413362
PMCID: PMC8708552
PMID: 34948972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All of the authors declared that they have no 
conflict of interest.


246. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Dec 20;18(24):13422. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph182413422.

Usability Study of a Multicomponent Exergame Training for Older Adults with 
Mobility Limitations.

Thalmann M(1), Ringli L(1), Adcock M(1), Swinnen N(2)(3), de Jong J(4), Dumoulin 
C(5), Guimarães V(6), de Bruin ED(1)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, Institute of Human Movement 
Science and Sport, ETH Zürich, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, KU Leuven, 3001 Leuven, Belgium.
(3)University Psychiatric Centre, KU Leuven, 3070 Kortenberg, Belgium.
(4)Physio SPArtos, 3800 Interlaken, Switzerland.
(5)School of Rehabilitation, Faculty of Medicine, Université de Montréal, 
Montreal, QC H3T 1J4, Canada.
(6)Fraunhofer Portugal AICOS, 4200-135 Porto, Portugal.
(7)Division of Physiotherapy, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, Karolinska Institute, 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.
(8)Department of Health, OST-Eastern Swiss University of Applied Sciences, 9001 
St. Gallen, Switzerland.

The global population aged 60 years and over rises due to increasing life 
expectancy. More older adults suffer from "geriatric giants". Mobility 
limitations, including immobility and instability, are usually accompanied by 
physical and cognitive decline, and can be further associated with gait changes. 
Improvements in physical and cognitive functions can be achieved with virtual 
reality exergame environments. This study investigated the usability of the 
newly developed VITAAL exergame in mobility-impaired older adults aged 60 years 
and older. Usability was evaluated with a mixed-methods approach including a 
usability protocol, the System Usability Scale, and a guideline-based interview. 
Thirteen participants (9 female, 80.5 ± 4.9 years, range: 71-89) tested the 
exergame and completed the measurement. The System Usability Scale was rated in 
a marginal acceptability range (58.3 ± 16.5, range: 30-85). The usability 
protocol and the guideline-based interview revealed general positive usability. 
The VITAAL exergame prototype received positive feedback and can be considered 
usable by older adults with mobility limitations. However, minor improvements to 
the system in terms of design, instructions, and technical aspects should be 
taken into account. The results warrant testing of the feasibility of the 
adapted multicomponent VITAAL exergame, and its effects on physical and 
cognitive functions, in comparison with conventional training, should be 
studied.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph182413422
PMCID: PMC8705921
PMID: 34949028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


247. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2022 Jan;28(1):108-114. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2022.28.1.108.

JAK inhibitors and monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of atopic dermatitis: 
effectiveness and value.

Agboola F(1), Atlas SJ(2), Brouwer E(3), Carlson JJ(3), Hansen RN(3), 
Herron-Smith S(1), Nhan E(1), Rind DM(1), Pearson SD(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical and Economic Review (ICER), Boston, MA.
(2)Division of General Internal Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston.
(3)The Comparative Health Outcomes, Policy, and Economics (CHOICE) Institute, 
University of Washington, Seattle.

DISCLOSURES: Funding for this summary was contributed by Arnold Ventures, The 
Donaghue Foundation, Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, and Kaiser Foundation Health 
Plan to the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review (ICER), an independent 
organization that evaluates the evidence on the value of health care 
interventions. ICER's annual policy summit is supported by dues from AbbVie, 
America's Health Insurance Plans, Anthem, Alnylam, AstraZeneca, Biogen, Blue 
Shield of CA, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Cambia Health Services, CVS, Editas, Evolve 
Pharmacy, Express Scripts, Genentech/Roche, GlaxoSmithKline, Harvard Pilgrim, 
Health Care Service Corporation, HealthFirst, Health Partners, Humana, Johnson & 
Johnson (Janssen), Kaiser Permanente, LEO Pharma, Mallinckrodt, Merck, Novartis, 
National Pharmaceutical Council, Pfizer, Premera, Prime Therapeutics, Regeneron, 
Sanofi, Sun Life Financial, uniQure, and United Healthcare. Agboola, 
Herron-Smith, Nhan, Rind, and Pearson are employed by ICER. Through their 
affiliated institutions, Atlas, Brouwer, Carlson, and Hansen received funding 
from ICER for the work described in this summary.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2022.28.1.108
PMCID: PMC10373035
PMID: 34949111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Funding for this summary was contributed by 
Arnold Ventures, The Donaghue Foundation, Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, and 
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan to the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review 
(ICER), an independent organization that evaluates the evidence on the value of 
health care interventions. ICER’s annual policy summit is supported by dues from 
AbbVie, America’s Health Insurance Plans, Anthem, Alnylam, AstraZeneca, Biogen, 
Blue Shield of CA, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Cambia Health Services, CVS, Editas, 
Evolve Pharmacy, Express Scripts, Genentech/Roche, GlaxoSmithKline, Harvard 
Pilgrim, Health Care Service Corporation, HealthFirst, Health Partners, Humana, 
Johnson & Johnson (Janssen), Kaiser Permanente, LEO Pharma, Mallinckrodt, Merck, 
Novartis, National Pharmaceutical Council, Pfizer, Premera, Prime Therapeutics, 
Regeneron, Sanofi, Sun Life Financial, uniQure, and United Healthcare. Agboola, 
Herron-Smith, Nhan, Rind, and Pearson are employed by ICER. Through their 
affiliated institutions, Atlas, Brouwer, Carlson, and Hansen received funding 
from ICER for the work described in this summary.


248. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2022 Jan;26(1):41-55. doi: 
10.1080/14728222.2022.2022123. Epub 2022 Jan 20.

Potential therapeutic targets to prevent organ damage in chronic pulmonary 
sarcoidosis.

Nienhuis W(1), Grutters J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Ild Center of Excellence, Department of Pulmonology, St Antonius Hospital, 
Nieuwegein, The Netherlands.
(2)Division of Hearth and Lungs, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Sarcoidosis is a granulomatous inflammatory disease with high 
chances of reduced quality of life, irreversible organ damage, and reduced life 
expectancy when vital organs are involved. Any organ system can be affected, and 
the lungs are most often affected. There is no preventive strategy as the exact 
etiology is unknown, and complex immunogenetic and environmental factors 
determine disease susceptibility and phenotype. Present-day treatment options 
originated from clinical practice and are effective in many patients. However, a 
substantial percentage of patients suffer from unacceptable side effects or 
still develop refractory, threatening pulmonary or extrapulmonary disease.
AREAS COVERED: As non-caseating granulomas, the pathological hallmark of 
disease, are assigned to divergent activation and regulation of the immune 
system, targets in relation to the possible triggers of granuloma formation and 
their sequelae were reviewed.
EXPERT OPINION: The immunopathogenesis underlying sarcoidosis has been a dynamic 
field of study. Several recent new insights give way to promising new 
therapeutic targets, such as certain antigenic triggers (e.g. from Aspergillus 
nidulans), mTOR, JAK-STAT and PPARγ pathways, the NRP2 receptor and MMP-12, 
which await further exploration. Clinical and trigger related phenotyping, and 
molecular endotyping will likely hold the key for precision medicine in the 
future.

DOI: 10.1080/14728222.2022.2022123
PMID: 34949145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. World J Gastrointest Surg. 2021 Nov 27;13(11):1351-1360. doi: 
10.4240/wjgs.v13.i11.1351.

Is surgery the best treatment for elderly gastric cancer patients?

Kawaguchi Y(1), Akaike H(2), Shoda K(2), Furuya S(2), Hosomura N(2), Amemiya 
H(2), Kawaida H(2), Kono H(2), Ichikawa D(2).

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of Yamanashi, 
Yamanashi 409-3898, Japan. ykawa@yamanashi.ac.jp.
(2)First Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of Yamanashi, 
Yamanashi 409-3898, Japan.

As the elderly population increases, the number of patients with gastric cancer 
has also been increasing. Elderly people have various preoperative problems such 
as malnutrition, high frequency of comorbidities, decreased performance status, 
and dementia. Furthermore, when surgery is performed, high postoperative 
complication rates and death from other diseases are also concerns. The goal of 
surgery in the elderly is that short-term outcomes are comparable to those in 
nonelderly, and long-term outcomes reach life expectancy. Perioperative problems 
in the elderly include: (1) Poor perioperative nutritional status; (2) 
Postoperative pneumonia; and (3) Psychological problems (dementia and 
postoperative delirium). Malnutrition in the elderly has been reported to be 
associated with increased postoperative complications and dementia, pointing out 
the importance of nutritional management. In addition, multidisciplinary team 
efforts, including perioperative respiratory rehabilitation, preoperative oral 
care, and early postoperative mobilization programs, are effective in preventing 
postoperative pneumonia. Furthermore, there are many reports on the usefulness 
of laparoscopic surgery for the elderly, and we considered that minimally 
invasive surgery would be the optimal treatment after assessing preoperative 
risk.

©The Author(s) 2021. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.4240/wjgs.v13.i11.1351
PMCID: PMC8649569
PMID: 34950425

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: There is no 
conflict of interest associated with any of the senior author or other coauthors 
contributed their efforts in this manuscript.


250. Front Public Health. 2021 Dec 7;9:776847. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.776847. 
eCollection 2021.

Global Trends in the Incidence, Prevalence, and Years Lived With Disability of 
Parkinson's Disease in 204 Countries/Territories From 1990 to 2019.

Ou Z(1)(2), Pan J(2)(3), Tang S(3), Duan D(3), Yu D(4), Nong H(1), Wang Z(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Central Laboratory, Guangzhou Twelfth People's Hospital, 
Guangzhou, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Occupational Environment and Health, Guangzhou Twelfth 
People's Hospital, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Guangzhou Occupational Disease Prevention and Treatment Hospital, Guangzhou, 
China.
(4)Department of Medical Intensive Care Unit (MICU), Guangdong Women and 
Children Hospital, Guangzhou, China.

Background: Parkinson's disease (PD) is an increasing challenge to public 
health. Tracking the temporal trends of PD burden would inform health 
strategies. Methods: Data of PD burden was obtained from the Global Burden of 
Disease 2019. Trends in the incidence, prevalence, and years lived with 
disability (YLDs) of PD were estimated using the annual percentage change (EAPC) 
and age-standardized rate (ASR) from 1990 to 2019. The EAPCs were calculated 
with ASR through a linear regression model. Results: The overall ASR of the 
incidence, prevalence, and YLDs of PD increased from 1990 to 2019, and their 
EAPCs were 0.61 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.58-0.65), 0.52 (95% CI: 
0.43-0.61), and 0.53 (95% CI: 0.44-0.62). The largest number of PD patients was 
seen in the groups aged more than 65 years, and the percentage rapidly increased 
in the population aged more than 80 years. Upward trends in the ASR of PD were 
observed in most settings over the past 30 years. Incident trends of ASR 
increased pronouncedly in the United States of America and Norway, in which the 
respective EAPCs were 2.87 (95% CI: 2.35-3.38) and 2.14 (95% CI: 2.00-2.29). 
Additionally, the largest increasing trends for prevalence and YLDs were seen in 
Norway, with the respective EAPCs of 2.63 (95% CI: 2.43-2.83) and 2.61 (95% CI: 
2.41-2.80). However, decreasing trends in PD appeared in about 30 countries, 
particularly Italy and the Republic of Moldova. Conclusions: Increasing trends 
in the burden of PD were observed globally, and in most regions and countries 
from 1990 to 2019. Our findings suggested that the control and management of PD 
should be strengthened, especially when considering the aging tendency of the 
population.

Copyright © 2021 Ou, Pan, Tang, Duan, Yu, Nong and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.776847
PMCID: PMC8688697
PMID: 34950630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


251. Front Public Health. 2021 Dec 7;9:780618. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.780618. 
eCollection 2021.

Health Educator Participation in Virtual Micro-Credentialing Increases Physical 
Activity in Public Health Competencies.

Dysart A(1), Balis LE(2), Daniels BT(3), Harden SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Nutrition, Foods, and Exercise, Virginia Tech, 
Blacksburg, VA, United States.
(2)Louisville Center, Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation, Louisville, 
KY, United States.
(3)Health, Human Performance, and Recreation, University of Arkansas, 
Fayetteville, AR, United States.

Background: Physical activity is an important component of leading a healthy 
life. Public health is one of the nine major sectors for disseminating 
information about physical activity and increasing the physical activity of the 
general public. Purpose: Increase competency among Cooperative Extension agents 
(i.e., public health workers) on selecting, delivering, and evaluating physical 
activity programs through a theory-based online training program. Methods: 
Cooperative Extension agents from two states were invited to participate via 
statewide listservs. Participants were invited to attend sessions, complete 
competency checks, and between-session assignments each week. The study was 
conducted using a video conferencing platform. The intervention was 9 weeks from 
June to July 2020 and had 130 participants. Pre- and post-program surveys 
included physical activity competencies and validated scales for flourishing and 
physical activity status. Data for competencies pre and post were analyzed using 
the Wilcoxon signed rank test, p < 0.01. Physical activity and flourishing pre 
and post were compared using t-tests, p < 0.05. Results: Physical activity in 
public health competency increased significantly (p < 0.00) as did agents' 
personal physical activity levels (p < 0.05). Changes in flourishing were not 
significant (p < 0.09) but trended in the hypothesized direction. Conclusions: 
The online competency-based training program significantly improved Cooperative 
Extension agents' knowledge of physical activity guidelines and physical 
activity program implementation. Future work is needed related to the 
scalability of the training program.

Copyright © 2021 Dysart, Balis, Daniels and Harden.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.780618
PMCID: PMC8688696
PMID: 34950632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


252. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2021 Nov;46(21):5450-5455. doi: 
10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20210918.501.

[Enlightenment of international pharmacovigilance system on establishment of 
pharmacovigilance system of Chinese medicine].

[Article in Chinese]

Cui X(1), Wang LX(1), Liu GY(2), Xie YM(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Basic Research in Clinical Medicine, China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Sciences Beijing 100700, China.
(2)Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences Beijing 100091, 
China.

Pharmacovigilance system is an extension of the original adverse drug reactions 
monitoring and reporting system as well as an internationally recognized basic 
system that must be matched with the whole life cycle supervision of drugs. 
European Union(EU)pharmacovigilance system, World Health Orgnization(WHO) 
Uppsala Monitoring Center system and ICH system are internationally recognized 
pharmacovigilance systems. They all have their own pharmacovigilance 
characteristics and could provide guarantee for clinical safe drug use. With the 
deepening of international communication, pharmacovigilance has also been 
developed in China. Pharmacovigilance of Chinese medicine is a new concept based 
on the existing pharmacovigilance system of chemical medicine and the 
characteristics of Chinese medicine. In ancient China, Chinese medicine also had 
its own ways of early warning. Ancient medical books have records on the 
toxicity classification, clinical pharmacovigilance and intoxication rescue of 
Chinese medicine. With the increase of public recognition of Chinese medicine in 
recent years, especially since the government issued the 13 th Five-Year Plan 
for the development of Chinese medicine, the pharmaceutical industry in China 
has paid more and more attention to the pharmacovigilance of Chinese 
medicine.However, the pharmacovigilance system of Chinese medicine has not yet 
been established, and it still needs to be explored and improved.Therefore, it 
is very necessary to develop the system to standardize pharmacovigilance-related 
activities of Chinese medicine. In this context, this study analyzed and learned 
the characteristics of pharmacovigilance systems of EU, ICH, and WHO Uppsala 
Monitoring Center, so as to provide some enlightenment for the establishment and 
improvement of pharmacovigilance system of Chinese medicine.

DOI: 10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20210918.501
PMID: 34951195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2022 Feb;133:104510. doi: 
10.1016/j.neubiorev.2021.12.033. Epub 2021 Dec 22.

Altered physical pain processing in different psychiatric conditions.

Kim DJ(1), Mirmina J(1), Narine S(1), Wachtel J(1), Carbajal JM(1), Fox H(1), 
Cáceda R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stony Brook University, 
Stony Brook, New York, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stony Brook University, 
Stony Brook, New York, USA; Psychiatry Service, Northport Veterans Affairs 
Medical Center, Northport, New York, USA. Electronic address: 
ricardo.caceda@stonybrookmedicine.edu.

Several reports indicate either increased or decreased pain sensitivity 
associated with psychiatric disorders. Chronic pain is highly prevalent in many 
of these conditions. We reviewed the literature regarding experimental pain 
sensitivity in patients with major depression, bipolar disorder, posttraumatic 
stress disorder (PTSD), generalized anxiety disorder, panic disorder, 
obsessive-compulsive disorder and schizophrenia. Electronic searches were 
performed to identify studies comparing experimental pain in patients with these 
conditions and controls. Across 31 depression studies, reduced pain threshold 
was noted except for ischemic stimuli, where increased pain tolerance and 
elevated sensitivity to ischemic pain was observed. A more pervasive pattern of 
low pain sensitivity was found across 20 schizophrenia studies. The majority of 
PTSD studies (n = 20) showed no significant differences compared with controls. 
The limited number of bipolar disorder (n = 4) and anxiety (n = 9) studies 
precluded identification of clear trends. Wide data variability was observed. 
Awareness of psychiatric patients' pain perception abnormalities is needed for 
active screening and addressing physical comorbidities, in order to enhance 
quality of life, life expectancy and mental health.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2021.12.033
PMID: 34952034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. J Neurosurg Pediatr. 2021 Dec 24;29(4):371-378. doi:
10.3171/2021.10.PEDS21293.  Print 2022 Apr 1.

Estimating the prevalence of neurosurgical interventions in adults with spina 
bifida using the Health Facts data set: implications for transition planning and 
the development of adult clinics.

Domino JS(1), Lundy P(1), Glynn EF(2), Partington M(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Neurosurgery, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas 
City, Kansas.
(2)2Children's Mercy Research Institute, Children's Mercy Kansas City, Kansas 
City; and.
(3)3Division of Neurosurgery, Children's Mercy Kansas City, Kansas City, 
Missouri.

OBJECTIVE: As the care of patients with spina bifida continues to evolve, life 
expectancy is increasing, leading to a critical need for transition planning 
from pediatric-based to adult-based care. The burden of neurosurgical care for 
adults with spina bifida remains unknown. In this study, the authors sought to 
use a large national data set to estimate the prevalence of neurosurgical 
interventions in adults with spina bifida.
METHODS: This study utilized Health Facts, which is a de-identified proprietary 
data set abstracted from all Cerner electronic health records. It includes 69 
million unique patients with > 500 million encounters in 580 centers. 
Validation, technical exclusions, and data filters were applied to obtain an 
appropriate cohort of patients. The ICD-9 and ICD-10 codes for all types of 
spinal dysraphism, as well as the Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes for 
hydrocephalus procedures, spinal cord untethering, and Chiari decompression, 
were queried and records were retrieved. Demographic variables along with 
differences in age groups and temporal trends were analyzed.
RESULTS: Overall, 24,764 unique patients with ≥ 1 encounter with a spinal 
dysraphism diagnosis between 2000 and 2017 were identified. The pediatric cohort 
included 11,123 patients with 60,027 separate encounters, and the adult cohort 
included 13,641 patients with 41,618 separate encounters. The proportion of 
females was higher in the adult (62.9%) than in the pediatric (51.4%) cohort. 
Annual encounters were stable from 2 to 18 years of age, but then decreased by 
approximately half with a precipitous drop after age 21 years. The sex 
distribution of adults and children who underwent procedures was similar (54.6% 
female adults vs 52.4% female children). Surgical interventions in adults were 
common. Between 2013 and 2017, there were 4913 procedures for hydrocephalus, 
with 2435 (49.6%) adult patients. Similarly, 273 (33.3%) of the 819 tethered 
cord procedures were performed in adults, as were 307 (32.9%) of 933 Chiari 
decompressions.
CONCLUSIONS: The Health Facts database offered another option for studying care 
delivery and utilization in patients aging with spina bifida. The median age of 
this population has now reached early adulthood, and a significant number of 
neurosurgical procedures were performed in adults. An abrupt drop in the rate of 
encounters occurred at 21 years of age, possibly reflecting transition issues 
such as access-to-care problems and lack of coordinated care.

DOI: 10.3171/2021.10.PEDS21293
PMID: 34952525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Hum Mov Sci. 2022 Feb;81:102916. doi: 10.1016/j.humov.2021.102916. Epub 2021
Dec  22.

Externalizing problems mediate the relationship between motor proficiency and 
internalizing problems in children: An extension of the Environmental Stress 
Hypothesis.

Medeiros P(1), Cardoso FL(1), Silva WRD(1), Zequinão MA(1), Tamplain P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Education, State University of Santa Catarina, Brazil.
(2)Department of Kinesiology, University of Texas at Arlington, USA. Electronic 
address: priscila.tamplain@uta.edu.

The Environmental Stress Hypothesis (ESH) is a causal theoretical framework that 
provides a flexible context for understanding factors that mediate the 
relationship between low motor proficiency and internalizing problems in 
children. The purpose of the present study was to use the ESH framework to 
determine whether body mass index (BMI), physical activity levels, psychosocial 
health and physical health, self-efficacy, perceived social status, prosocial 
behavior and externalizing problems were potential mediators between motor 
proficiency and internalizing factors in a population of Brazilian children. 431 
children aged 7- to 10 years (240 females, 191 males) participated in the study. 
The variables were measured with the Movement Assessment Battery for Children, 
2nd ed. (MABC-2), the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL), the 
Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ), the MacArthur Subjective Social 
Status Scale (MacArthur SSS), the Self-efficacy Sense Assessment Roadmap 
(RASAE), and the Physical Activity Questionnaire (PAQ). The results indicated a 
direct relationship between motor proficiency and internalizing problems in a 
population of Brazilian children, with externalizing problems being the only 
variable mediating that relationship. To the best of our knowledge, this is the 
first time that externalizing problems were tested in the context of the ESH. 
Understanding and evaluating potential mediators in the relationship between 
motor proficiency and internalizing problems using the ESH framework is 
essential to promote prevention policies and interventions for school-age 
children.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humov.2021.102916
PMID: 34953291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Biomed Pharmacother. 2022 Feb;146:112498. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2021.112498.
 Epub 2021 Dec 22.

Onion (Allium cepa L.) peels: A review on bioactive compounds and biomedical 
activities.

Kumar M(1), Barbhai MD(2), Hasan M(3), Punia S(4), Dhumal S(5), Radha(6), Rais 
N(7), Chandran D(8), Pandiselvam R(9), Kothakota A(10), Tomar M(11), Satankar 
V(12), Senapathy M(13), Anitha T(14), Dey A(15), Sayed AAS(16), Gadallah FM(17), 
Amarowicz R(18), Mekhemar M(19).

Author information:
(1)Chemical and Biochemical Processing Division, ICAR - Central institute for 
Research on Cotton Technology, Mumbai 400019, India. Electronic address: 
manoj.kumar13@icar.gov.in.
(2)Chemical and Biochemical Processing Division, ICAR - Central institute for 
Research on Cotton Technology, Mumbai 400019, India.
(3)Agro Produce Processing Division, ICAR-Central Institute of Agricultural 
Engineering, Bhopal 462038, India.
(4)Department of Food, Nutrition and Packaging Sciences, Clemson University, 
Clemson, SC 29634, USA.
(5)Division of Horticulture, RCSM College of Agriculture, Kolhapur 416004, 
India.
(6)School of Biological and Environmental Sciences, Shoolini University of 
Biotechnology and Management Sciences, Solan 173229, India.
(7)Department of Pharmacy, Bhagwant University, Ajmer, Rajasthan 305004, India.
(8)Department of Veterinary Sciences and Animal Husbandry, Amrita School of 
Agricultural Sciences, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham University, Coimbatore 642109, 
Tamil Nadu, India.
(9)Division of Physiology, Biochemistry and Post-Harvest Technology, ICAR - 
Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI), Kasaragod, 671 124 Kerala, 
India.
(10)Agro-Processing & Technology Division, CSIR - National Institute for 
Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST), Trivandrum - 695091, Kerala, 
India.
(11)Seed Technology Division, ICAR - Indian Grassland and Fodder Research 
Institute, Jhansi, India.
(12)Ginning Training Centre, ICAR - Central Institute for Research on Cotton 
Technology, Nagpur, Maharashtra, India.
(13)Department of Rural Development and Agricultural Extension, College of 
Agriculture, Wolaita Sodo University, SNNPR, Wolaita Sodo, Ethiopia. Electronic 
address: drsenapathy@wsu.edu.et.
(14)Department of Postharvest Technology, Horticultural College and Research 
Institute, Periyakulam 625604, India.
(15)Department of Life Sciences, Presidency University, 86/1 College Street, 
Kolkata 700073, India.
(16)Botany Department, Faculty of Agriculture, Fayoum University, Fayoum 63514, 
Egypt; Division of Plant Physiology, ICAR - Indian Agricultural Research 
Institute, New Delhi, 110012, India.
(17)Botany Department, Faculty of Agriculture, Fayoum University, Fayoum 63514, 
Egypt.
(18)Institute of Animal Reproduction and Food Research, Polish Academy of 
Sciences, Olsztyn, Poland.
(19)Clinic for Conservative Dentistry and Periodontology, School of Dental 
Medicine, Christian-Albrecht's University, 24105 Kiel, Germany. Electronic 
address: mekhemar@konspar.uni-kiel.de.

Huge quantities of byproducts/wastes generated in onion processing are usually 
discarded, but they are excellent sources of bioactive compounds and 
phytochemicals. However, with growing interest in the sustainable use of 
resources and the circular economy to reduce adverse impacts on the environment, 
food processing wastes such as onion peel/skin can be extracted and employed as 
inputs in developing or reformulating nutrient supplements, and pharmacological 
drugs. This review highlights major bioactive components, especially total 
phenolics, total flavonoid, quercetin and its derivatives present in onion 
peel/skin and their therapeutic applications as cardioprotective, 
neuroprotective, antiobesity, antidiabetic, anticancer and antimicrobial agents. 
The present review emphasized that onion peel is one of the important 
agricultural by-products which is rich in bioactive compounds and can be 
utilized as health promoting ingredient especially in pharmacological and 
biomedical fields. Thus, with increasing burden of life style 
disorders/non-communicable diseases, finding suitable natural alternative for 
their treatment is one major concern of the researchers and onion peel and its 
extract can be exploited as a prime ingredient.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2021.112498
PMID: 34953395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Soc Sci Med. 2022 Jan;293:114660. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2021.114660. Epub
 2021 Dec 18.

Spatiotemporal trends in life expectancy and impacts of economic growth and air 
pollution in 134 countries: A Bayesian modeling study.

Wang S(1), Ren Z(2), Liu X(3), Yin Q(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Geographic Sciences and Natural Resources Research, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100101, China.
(2)Institute of Geographic Sciences and Natural Resources Research, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100101, China; State Key Laboratory of Resources 
and Environmental Information System, Institute of Geographic Science and 
Natural Resource Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100101, China. 
Electronic address: renzp@lreis.ac.cn.
(3)Institute of Geographic Sciences and Natural Resources Research, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100101, China; State Key Laboratory of Resources 
and Environmental Information System, Institute of Geographic Science and 
Natural Resource Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100101, China.

Life expectancy (LE) varies across countries in space and time, and economic 
growth and air pollution are two important influence factors to LE. This study 
mainly aims to investigate spatiotemporal trends in LE in 134 countries from 
1960 to 2016 by using Bayesian spatiotemporal modeling. Further, the relations 
between per capita gross domestic product (GDPpc) and population-weighted fine 
particulate matter (pwPM2.5) and LE are investigated from a global perspective 
from 1998 to 2016 by using the Bayesian regression model. The results 
illustrated the heterogeneity of spatiotemporal trends in LE globally. 
Specifically, Africa and South-East Asia show much lower LE levels, and the 
Americas, European, and Western Pacific exhibit a relatively higher LE level 
compared to the overall level. The countries with low overall levels of LE show 
a relatively stronger upward trend than the overall upward trend and vice versa. 
In addition, this study demonstrates that the spatial differences in effects of 
influence factors on LE in the six WHO regions in the 134 countries. Africa 
shows the highest positive regression coefficient of GDPpc and lowest negative 
regression coefficient of pwPM2.5 on LE than other regions in the world. 
Furthermore, it shows the complexity of the interaction between economic growth 
and air pollution on LE across six WHO regions. Our findings suggest the public 
policies to reduce the health damage caused by air pollution, especially in 
Africa, Eastern Mediterranean, and Europe where the pwPM2.5 negatively affect 
the LE benefits from economic growth.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2021.114660
PMID: 34953418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2022 Feb;10(2):129-141. doi: 
10.1016/S2213-8587(21)00285-0. Epub 2021 Dec 22.

Subclinical hypothyroidism in older individuals.

Biondi B(1), Cappola AR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, University of Naples Federico 
II, Naples, Italy. Electronic address: bebiondi@unina.it.
(2)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, University of 
Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19104.

Subclinical hypothyroidism, which is defined as a thyroid-stimulating hormone 
concentration higher than the reference range (generally 4·5 mIU/L or higher) 
with normal free thyroxine concentrations, is frequently found in older 
individuals. International guidelines differ in recommendations for management 
of subclinical hypothyroidism in older individuals. We assessed published data 
during the past decade on the clinical significance and treatment of subclinical 
hypothyroidism in individuals aged 65 years and older. Meta-analyses, randomised 
clinical trials, and cohort studies are discussed in this narrative Review. 
Studies showed no significantly increased incidence in adverse cardiovascular, 
musculoskeletal, or cognitive outcomes in individuals aged 65 years or older 
when serum thyroid-stimulating hormone concentration was 4·5-7·0 mIU/L versus a 
euthyroid group. Moreover, in older individuals with subclinical hypothyroidism, 
symptoms of hypothyroidism and cardiac and bone parameters did not improve after 
levothyroxine treatment. These data suggest that treatment with levothyroxine 
should be considered for individuals aged 65 years or older with subclinical 
hypothyroidism when thyroid-stimulating hormone concentration is persistently 7 
mIU/L or higher and to not initiate treatment with thyroid-stimulating hormone 
concentrations of less than 7 mIU/L. Levothyroxine doses should be personalised 
according to age, comorbidities, and life expectancy.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2213-8587(21)00285-0
PMID: 34953533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests We declare no competing 
interests.


259. Prim Care Diabetes. 2022 Feb;16(1):188-195. doi: 10.1016/j.pcd.2021.12.013.
Epub  2021 Dec 23.

Long-term clinical and cost-effectiveness of collaborative care in people with 
uncontrolled type 2 diabetes mellitus and polypharmacy: A multicenter randomized 
controlled trial.

Xu Y(1), Tan CWY(2), Tsou KYK(3), Tan DHY(3), Gallagher PJ(4), Lee JY(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Science, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore.
(2)National Healthcare Group Pharmacy, Singapore.
(3)National University Polyclinics, Singapore.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Science, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore. Electronic address: phapjg@nus.edu.sg.
(5)Department of Clinical Pharmacy Practice, University of California, Irvine, 
United States. Electronic address: j.lee@uci.edu.

AIMS: This study examined the effectiveness of a collaborative care model on 
clinical and humanistic outcomes, medical cost, productivity loss, and its 
cost-effectiveness in managing uncontrolled Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM).
METHODS: A randomized controlled study was conducted in two outpatient health 
institutions in Singapore. Patients aged above 21 years with HbA1c > 7% and 
polypharmacy were included. Eligible patients were randomized into the 
intervention (collaborative care) and control (usual care) arms.
RESULTS: A total of 255 patients were included in the analysis. Compared to the 
control arm, the intervention arm achieved significantly greater glycated 
hemoglobin (HbA1c) reduction (mean difference: 0.25, 95%CI: [0.001, 0.50], p = 
0.049) and quality-adjusted life year (QALY) (+0.011, 95%CI: [0.003, 0.019], p = 
0.011) at 12 months. The costs per additional HbA1c and QALY improvements over 
one year were $40.52 and $920.91 respectively. Activity impairment was lower in 
the intervention group both at 6 months (12.7% vs 19.0%; p = 0.022) and at 12 
months (6.7% vs 14.0%; p = 0.008).
CONCLUSIONS: The collaborative care model achieved earlier HbA1c reduction and 
reduced patients' activity impairment without decreasing work productivity or 
increasing medical costs. This intervention is cost-effective for improving 
glycemic control and quality of life in patients with T2DM.

Copyright © 2021 Primary Care Diabetes Europe. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcd.2021.12.013
PMID: 34953748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Res Dev Disabil. 2022 Feb;121:104154. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2021.104154. Epub
2021  Dec 23.

Parents' views on medical decisions related to life and death for their ageing 
child with profound intellectual and multiple disabilities: A qualitative study.

Kruithof K(1), Olsman E(2), Nieuwenhuijse A(3), Willems D(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ethics, Law & Humanities, Amsterdam UMC, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
k.kruithof@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Department of Mediating Good Life, Section of Spiritual Care & Chaplaincy 
Studies, Protestant Theological University, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Ethics, Law & Humanities, Amsterdam UMC, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The increased life expectancy of persons with profound intellectual 
and multiple disabilities (PIMD) raises questions regarding the medical 
decisions related to life and death, made on their behalf during their later 
lives. However, little is known about how parents make such decisions for their 
ageing child.
AIM: Explore parents' views on medical decisions related to life and death for 
their ageing child with PIMD.
METHODS: We interviewed 27 parents of persons with PIMD (≥ 15 years) and 
analyzed the data thematically.
RESULTS: Parents who were convinced that their ageing child's quality of life 
(QoL) was good, stated that their child "deserved the same treatment as any 
other person". Others rejected life-prolonging treatments for their child 
because they believed such treatment would diminish their child's QoL. Some of 
the parents who thought their child's QoL was poor, mentioned that withholding 
treatment is only an option in a crisis situation and contemplated other options 
to shorten their child's life.
CONCLUSIONS: Parents feel equipped to take on a central role in medical 
decisions related to life and death for their ageing child with PIMD, and desire 
understanding from medical professionals for their views on their child's 
interests, which sometimes includes physician-assisted death.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2021.104154
PMID: 34954670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Curr Opin Urol. 2022 Mar 1;32(2):204-210. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0000000000000958.

Technical advances in nerve-sparing and continence preservation.

Pedraza AM(1), Wagaskar V, Parekh S, Tewari A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York 
City, New York, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Urinary incontinence and erectile dysfunction are common 
after radical prostatectomy. These side effects greatly impact patients' quality 
of life. Therefore, surgical techniques and technology tools are constantly 
being developed to optimize trifecta outcomes. Here we focus on advances in 
nerve-sparing (NS) and continence preservation.
RECENT FINDINGS: New surgical techniques dedicated to preservation rather than 
reconstruction have been developed to improve urinary continence (UC) and NS. On 
the other hand, intraoperative assessment of prostatic and periprostatic 
structures has shown promising outcomes toward NS whereas avoiding omission of 
extracapsular extension (ECE). Likewise, neural regeneration strategies are 
under research to improve return of erectile function and UC.
SUMMARY: Superb outcomes after Robot-Assisted Radical Prostatectomy require a 
proper balance between NS and risk of ECE. Detailed anatomic knowledge together 
with an accurate surgical planning are cornerstone for tailoring the approach in 
each case.

Copyright © 2021 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0000000000000958
PMID: 34954705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. FEBS Lett. 2022 May;596(10):1231-1240. doi: 10.1002/1873-3468.14268. Epub
2022  Jan 10.

Health consequences of improving the content of ergothioneine in the food 
supply.

Beelman RB(1), Phillips AT(2), Richie JP Jr(3), Ba DM(3), Duiker SW(4), Kalaras 
MD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, College of Agricultural Sciences, Penn State 
University, University Park, PA, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Eberly College of Science, 
Penn State University, University Park, PA, USA.
(3)Department of Public Health Sciences, College of Medicine, Penn State 
University, Hershey, PA, USA.
(4)Department of Plant Science, College of Agricultural Sciences, Penn State 
University, University Park, PA, USA.

Erratum in
    FEBS Lett. 2022 Sep;596(18):2465.

Ergothioneine (ERGO) is a potent antioxidant and anti-inflammatory amino acid 
that is highly bioavailable to humans from the diet. ERGO is now regarded by 
some as a 'longevity vitamin' that has the potential to mitigate some chronic 
diseases of ageing and thereby increase life expectancy when present in adequate 
amounts. However, only limited knowledge exists regarding ERGO content in the 
human diet. Since ERGO is produced primarily by fungi, mushrooms are known to be 
the leading dietary source, but ERGO is found in relatively low amounts 
throughout the food chain as a result of soil-borne fungi or bacteria passing it 
on to plants through their roots. Some conventional agricultural practices that 
negatively impact soil fungi, such as excessive soil disturbance (ploughing), 
can significantly reduce ERGO content of food crops when compared to 
regenerative practices such as eliminating tillage of the soil (no-till). This 
has led us to the concept that ERGO may be a definitive connection between soil 
health and human health.

© 2021 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.

DOI: 10.1002/1873-3468.14268
PMID: 34954825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2021 Dec 10;42(12):2156-2163. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20210506-00373.

[DALYs for breast cancer in China, 2000-2050: trend analysis and prediction 
based on GBD 2019].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]
