RESULTS: From a total of 1203 consecutive patients 1000 patients with 1000 PF 
were evaluated after a mean of 12.2 years (range 10.0-14.0 years). The mean 
survival was 4.5 ± 1.6 years, and the 10-year survival rate was 13.1%. A total 
of 7 periods with a range of 5 years were analyzed, starting from 65-69 years up 
to 95-99 years. Compared to the mean life expectancy of the general population, 
the survival rate of the sample was significantly shorter up to 9 years. Both 
genders were equally affected. With increasing age, this gap declined based on 
shorter life expectancy. A subgroup analysis revealed that patients with 
survival > 1 year did not demonstrate significantly better results. Revisions 
later than 1 year after the index surgery were infrequent, and only 27 (2.7%) 
were recorded.
CONCLUSION: Geriatric patients with PF have significantly shorter life 
expectancy than the general population evaluated by the German Federal 
Statistical Office. This reflects fragility and morbidity of patients with PF.

Publisher: ZUSAMMENFASSUNG: HINTERGRUND: Die operative Versorgung proximaler 
Femurfrakturen (PF) geht bei geriatrischen Patienten mit einer hohen 
Sterblichkeitsrate im 1. postoperativen Jahr einher. Nachuntersuchungen 
mindestens 10 Jahre postoperativ stehen hierzu aus.
MATERIAL UND METHODEN: Basierend auf unserer Datenbank wurden alle Patienten mit 
PF und operativer Versorgung mindestens 10 Jahre postoperativ reevaluiert. 
Einschlusskriterium war ein Lebensalter von 65 bis 99 Jahren. Primäres 
Zielkriterium war die Überlebenszeit mit einer vergleichenden Auswertung zur 
mittleren Lebenserwartung der Allgemeinbevölkerung des Statistischen 
Bundesamtes. Sekundäres Kriterium waren Revisionen später als ein Jahr 
postoperativ. Mindestens 10 Jahre postoperativ erfolgte eine telefonische 
Kontaktierung der Patienten oder deren Angehörigen.
ERGEBNISSE: Von initial 1203 konsekutiven Patienten konnten 1000 Patienten mit 
1000 PF eingeschlossen und im Mittel 12,2 Jahre (10,0–14,0) postoperativ 
evaluiert werden. Die mittlere Überlebenszeit betrug 4,5 ± 1,6 Jahre, die 
10-Jahres-Überlebensrate betrug 13,1 %. Es wurden 7 Altersgruppen mit jeweils 
5 Lebensjahren analysiert, beginnend von 65–69 Jahre bis 95–99 Jahre. Im 
Vergleich zur Lebenserwartung der Allgemeinbevölkerung des Statistischen 
Bundesamtes war die Überlebenszeit von Patienten mit PF in allen Altersgruppen 
um bis zu maximal 9 Lebensjahre reduziert. Mit zunehmendem Lebensalter war die 
Verkürzung der Lebenszeit geringer ausgeprägt, blieb aber durchgehend bestehen. 
Eine Subgruppenanalyse mit Patienten, welche mindestens > 1 Jahr überlebten, 
zeigte keinen wesentlichen Anstieg der mittleren Überlebenszeit. Revisionen 
später als ein Jahr postoperativ bildeten eine Rarität; lediglich n = 27 (2,7 %) 
wurden dokumentiert.
SCHLUSSFOLGERUNG: Im Vergleich zu den Daten des Statistischen Bundesamtes weisen 
geriatrische Patienten mit PF deutlich geringere Überlebensraten auf als 
erwartet. Die Ergebnisse reflektieren die hohe Morbidität und Fragilität von 
Patienten mit PF.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Medizin Verlag GmbH, 
ein Teil von Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00113-022-01140-9
PMID: 35024871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Breast Cancer. 2022 May;29(3):437-449. doi: 10.1007/s12282-021-01322-0. Epub
 2022 Jan 13.

Quality of life improvement in breast cancer survivors affected by upper limb 
lymphedema through a novel multiperspective physical activity methodology: a 
monocentric pilot study.

Carretti G(#)(1), Mirandola D(#)(1)(2), Maestrini F(2), Sequi L(2), Germano 
S(1), Muraca MG(3)(4), Miccinesi G(4), Manetti M(1), Marini M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, Section of Anatomy and 
Histology, University of Florence, Largo Brambilla 3, 50134, Florence, Italy.
(2)The Italian League Against Tumors (LILT), 50126, Florence, Italy.
(3)Oncological Rehabilitation Centre (Ce.Ri.On.), 50139, Florence, Italy.
(4)Oncological Network, Prevention and Research Institute (ISPRO), 50139, 
Florence, Italy.
(5)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, Section of Anatomy and 
Histology, University of Florence, Largo Brambilla 3, 50134, Florence, Italy. 
mirca.marini@unifi.it.
(#)Contributed equally

PURPOSE: Chronic lymphedema causes psychophysical sequelae jeopardizing quality 
of life (QoL) of breast cancer (BC) survivors, and lack of effective therapies 
represents a major challenge for healthcare professionals. Structured adapted 
physical activity (APA) may represent an effective strategy to attenuate cancer 
treatment-related impairments and improve QoL. Here, we describe the effects of 
a specific APA intervention based on a novel multiperspective methodology in 
counteracting lymphedema-related morphofunctional alterations and improving QoL 
of BC survivors.
METHODS: BC survivors with chronic moderate/severe lymphedema attending the 
Cancer Rehabilitation Center in Florence were assessed before and after 8-week 
APA. The protocol consisted of both APA specialist-supervised and self-leaded 
sessions using a tailor-designed proprioceptive board. Body mass index, 
bioimpedance parameters, indirect upper limb volume measurement, and 
ultrasonography were performed. Wrist flexion/extension and hand strength 
functional tests were also executed. QoL, depression/anxiety and pain intensity 
were evaluated by ULL27, HADS, distress thermometer and NRS questionnaires, 
respectively.
RESULTS: Although bioimpedance, ultrasound and volumetric measures remained 
mostly unchanged, wrist mobility, pain perception, depression, and QoL were all 
significantly ameliorated after APA.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that a multidisciplinary treatment approach 
involving APA professionals should be employed in the management of BC-related 
lymphedema to improve patient psychophysical outcomes and QoL.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japanese Breast Cancer 
Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s12282-021-01322-0
PMID: 35025064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. PLoS One. 2022 Jan 13;17(1):e0261962. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0261962. 
eCollection 2022.

Use of telehealth in the provision of after-hours palliative care services in 
rural and remote Australia: A scoping review protocol.

Namasivayam P(1), Bui DT(2), Low C(2), Barnett T(2), Bridgman H(2), Marsh P(2), 
Lee S(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Tasmania, Hobart, Tasmania, Australia.
(2)Centre for Rural Health, School of Health Sciences, University of Tasmania, 
Newnham, Tasmania, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: After-hours services are essential in ensuring patients with life 
limiting illness and their caregivers are supported to enable continuity of 
care. Telehealth is a valuable approach to meeting after-hours support needs of 
people living with life-limiting illness, their families, and caregivers in 
rural and remote communities. It is important to explore the provision of 
after-hours palliative care services using telehealth to understand the reach of 
these services in rural and remote Australia. A preliminary search of databases 
failed to reveal any scoping or systematic reviews of telehealth in after-hours 
palliative care services in rural or remote Australia.
AIM: To review and map the available evidence about the use of telehealth in 
providing after-hours palliative care services in Australian rural and remote 
communities.
METHODS: The proposed scoping review will be conducted using the Arksey and 
O'Malley methodological framework and in accordance with the Joanna Briggs 
Institute methodology for scoping reviews. The reporting of the scoping review 
will be guided by the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and 
Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR). This review will 
consider research and evaluation of after-hours services using telehealth for 
palliative care stakeholders in rural and remote Australia. Peer reviewed 
studies and grey literature published in English from 2000 to May 2021 will be 
included. Scopus, Web of Science, CINAHL Complete, Embase via Ovid, PsycINFO via 
Ovid, Emcare via Ovid, Medline via Ovid, and grey literature will be searched 
for relevant articles. Titles and abstracts will be screened by two independent 
reviewers for assessment against the inclusion criteria. Data will be extracted 
and analysed by two reviewers using an adapted data extraction tool and thematic 
analysis techniques. Diagrams, tables, and summary narratives will be used to 
map, summarise and thematically group the characteristics of palliative care 
telehealth services in rural and remote Australia, including stakeholders' 
perceptions and benefits and challenges of the services.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0261962
PMCID: PMC8758106
PMID: 35025895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


504. Med Mycol. 2022 Feb 1;60(2):myab078. doi: 10.1093/mmy/myab078.

Cost-effectiveness of single-dose AmBisome pre-emptive treatment for the 
prevention of cryptococcal meningitis in African low and middle-income 
countries.

Rajasingham R(1), Nalintya E(2), Israelski DM(3), Meya DB(2), Larson BA(4), 
Boulware DR(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases & International Medicine, University of 
Minnesota, MN 55455, USA.
(2)Infectious Diseases Institute, Makerere University, Kampala, Uganda.
(3)Medical Affairs, Global Patient Solutions, Gilead Sciences, Inc., CA 94404, 
USA.
(4)Department of Global Health, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA 02118, USA.

Cryptococcal antigen (CrAg) screening is recommended for patients with advanced 
HIV to reduce AIDS-related mortality. For asymptomatic CrAg-positive persons, 
fluconazole pre-emptive therapy is standard, despite a ∼25% failure rate. 
Single-dose liposomal amphotericin B (AmBisome) is non-inferior to standard 
treatment for cryptococcal meningitis. We evaluate the threshold of efficacy 
necessary for AmBisome + fluconazole to be cost-effective as pre-emptive therapy 
for CrAg-positive persons.We created a decision analytic model to evaluate CrAg 
screening and treatment in HIV-infected persons with CD4 < 100 cells/μL. Costs 
were estimated for screening, pre-emptive therapy, and hospitalization for an 
example low-income country (Uganda) and middle-income country (South Africa). We 
used a discounted price range of AmBisome® at ${\$}$16.25 to ${\$}$40 per 50 mg 
vial for both Uganda and South Africa. We estimated AmBisome efficacy from 75 to 
95%. Parameter assumptions were based on prospective CrAg screening studies and 
clinical trials in Africa. Disability adjusted life years (DALYs) were 
calculated using the age-specific life expectancy in Uganda, per WHO Global 
Health Observatory data. We modeled the theoretical efficacy of adjunctive 
AmBisome to determine cost per DALY averted.In South Africa, at ${\$}$16.25 per 
vial cost and a minimum efficacy of 85%, adjunctive AmBisome is cost-saving 
compared to fluconazole monotherapy. Compared to fluconazole pre-emptive therapy 
in Uganda, AmBisome + fluconazole would cost ${\$}$475, ${\$}$220, or ${\$}$136 
per DALY averted if meningitis-free survival efficacy was 80, 85, or 90% at 
${\$}$24 per vial cost.Investing in AmBisome may be cost-effective in low-income 
settings compared to using fluconazole pre-emptive therapy alone, if efficacy is 
85% or greater. AmBisome pre-emptive therapy appears more cost-efficient in 
middle-income settings where hospitalization costs for meningitis, and GDP per 
capita are higher.
LAY SUMMARY: We evaluate the efficacy necessary for AmBisome + fluconazole to be 
cost-effective to prevent cryptococcal meningitis. We found that if AmBisome 
pre-emptive therapy has an efficacy of 85% or greater, it is likely to be 
cost-effective in low-income settings.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
International Society for Human and Animal Mycology.

DOI: 10.1093/mmy/myab078
PMCID: PMC9756002
PMID: 35026017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Lancet Psychiatry. 2022 Feb;9(2):137-150. doi:
10.1016/S2215-0366(21)00395-3.  Epub 2022 Jan 10.

Global, regional, and national burden of 12 mental disorders in 204 countries 
and territories, 1990-2019: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of 
Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Mental Disorders Collaborators.

Comment in
    Lancet Psychiatry. 2022 Feb;9(2):98-100.

BACKGROUND: The mental disorders included in the Global Burden of Diseases, 
Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2019 were depressive disorders, anxiety 
disorders, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, autism spectrum disorders, conduct 
disorder, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, eating disorders, idiopathic 
developmental intellectual disability, and a residual category of other mental 
disorders. We aimed to measure the global, regional, and national prevalence, 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYS), years lived with disability (YLDs), and 
years of life lost (YLLs) for mental disorders from 1990 to 2019.
METHODS: In this study, we assessed prevalence and burden estimates from GBD 
2019 for 12 mental disorders, males and females, 23 age groups, 204 countries 
and territories, between 1990 and 2019. DALYs were estimated as the sum of YLDs 
and YLLs to premature mortality. We systematically reviewed PsycINFO, Embase, 
PubMed, and the Global Health Data Exchange to obtain data on prevalence, 
incidence, remission, duration, severity, and excess mortality for each mental 
disorder. These data informed a Bayesian meta-regression analysis to estimate 
prevalence by disorder, age, sex, year, and location. Prevalence was multiplied 
by corresponding disability weights to estimate YLDs. Cause-specific deaths were 
compiled from mortality surveillance databases. The Cause of Death Ensemble 
modelling strategy was used to estimate death rate by age, sex, year, and 
location. The death rates were multiplied by the years of life expected to be 
remaining at death based on a normative life expectancy to estimate YLLs. Deaths 
and YLLs could be calculated only for anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa, 
since these were the only mental disorders identified as underlying causes of 
death in GBD 2019.
FINDINGS: Between 1990 and 2019, the global number of DALYs due to mental 
disorders increased from 80·8 million (95% uncertainty interval [UI] 59·5-105·9) 
to 125·3 million (93·0-163·2), and the proportion of global DALYs attributed to 
mental disorders increased from 3·1% (95% UI 2·4-3·9) to 4·9% (3·9-6·1). 
Age-standardised DALY rates remained largely consistent between 1990 (1581·2 
DALYs [1170·9-2061·4] per 100 000 people) and 2019 (1566·2 DALYs [1160·1-2042·8] 
per 100 000 people). YLDs contributed to most of the mental disorder burden, 
with 125·3 million YLDs (95% UI 93·0-163·2; 14·6% [12·2-16·8] of global YLDs) in 
2019 attributable to mental disorders. Eating disorders accounted for 17 361·5 
YLLs (95% UI 15 518·5-21 459·8). Globally, the age-standardised DALY rate for 
mental disorders was 1426·5 (95% UI 1056·4-1869·5) per 100 000 population among 
males and 1703·3 (1261·5-2237·8) per 100 000 population among females. 
Age-standardised DALY rates were highest in Australasia, Tropical Latin America, 
and high-income North America.
INTERPRETATION: GBD 2019 showed that mental disorders remained among the top ten 
leading causes of burden worldwide, with no evidence of global reduction in the 
burden since 1990. The estimated YLLs for mental disorders were extremely low 
and do not reflect premature mortality in individuals with mental disorders. 
Research to establish causal pathways between mental disorders and other fatal 
health outcomes is recommended so that this may be addressed within the GBD 
study. To reduce the burden of mental disorders, coordinated delivery of 
effective prevention and treatment programmes by governments and the global 
health community is imperative.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Australian National Health and Medical 
Research Council, Queensland Department of Health, Australia.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2215-0366(21)00395-3
PMCID: PMC8776563
PMID: 35026139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests C Kieling reports 
grants from MQ: Transforming Mental Health, the Royal Academy of Engineering, 
the US Academy of Medical Sciences, the US National Institutes of Health, 
Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico, the UK Medical 
Research Council, and Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado do Rio Grande do 
Sul; and consulting fees from the United Nations Children's Fund, outside the 
submitted work. P B Mitchell reports grants from the Australian National Health 
and Medical Research Council; and payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from 
Janssen Australia, outside the submitted work. G C Patton reports support for 
the present manuscript from the Australia National Health and Medical Research 
Council. J B Soriano reports participation in the Institute for Health Metrics 
and Evaluation's Tobacco Advisory board, outside the submitted work. D J Stein 
reports royalties or licenses from Elsevier and the American Psychiatric Press; 
consulting fees from Johnson & Johnson, Lundbeck, Sanofi, and Vistagen; and 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing or educational events from Servier and Takeda, outside the submitted 
work. M B Stein reports grants or contracts from the US National Institute of 
Mental Health, US Department of Defense, and US Department of Veterans Affairs; 
consulting fees from Aptinyx, Acadia Pharmaceuticals, Bionomics, 
Boehringer-Ingelheim, Clexio, EmpowerPharm, Engrail, GW Pharmaceuticals, 
Janssen, Kazz Pharmaceuticals, and Roche/Genentech; stocks from Pfizer; holds 
stock options in Epivario and Oxeia Biopharmaceuticals, and owns mutual funds 
that might contain pharmaceutical stocks; and is the Editor-in-Chief of 
Depression and Anxiety, Deputy Editor of Biological Psychiatry, and 
Co-Editor-in-Chief of UptoDate (Psychiatry), outside the submitted work. C E I 
Szoeke acknowledges support for the present manuscript from National Health and 
Medical Research Council Australia funding (1032350 and 1062133) paid to the 
University of Melbourne; and acknowledges payment for expert testimony from the 
Victorian Department of Health, and for leadership or fiduciary role in board, 
society, committee or advocacy group, paid or unpaid with the American Medical 
Association, outside the submitted work. All other authors declare no competing 
interests.


506. J Neuroimmunol. 2022 Mar 15;364:577809. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2022.577809.
 Epub 2022 Jan 7.

Trans-omics analyses revealed key epigenetic genes associated with overall 
survival in secondary progressive multiple sclerosis.

Ye F(1), Dai Y(2), Wang T(3), Liang J(1), Wu X(4), Lan K(5), Sheng W(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, China; Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Diagnosis 
and Treatment of Major Neurological Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Diagnosis and Treatment of Major 
Neurological Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, 
Guangzhou, China; Department of Neurology, The Seventh Affiliated Hospital, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Shenzhen, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, Troops 32268 Hospital, Dali, China.
(6)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, China; Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Diagnosis 
and Treatment of Major Neurological Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China. Electronic address: 
shengwl@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS) is the second most 
common presentation of multiple sclerosis (MS) and is characterized by a 
gradually deteriorating disease with or without relapses. Approximately 80% of 
patients with relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) develop SPMS within 20 years. 
Epidemiological investigations have revealed an average 7-year life expectancy 
decrease (more severe in progressive subtypes) in patients with MS. Studies have 
focused on the neurodegenerative pathogenesis of SPMS; and epigenetic changes 
have been associated with disease progression in neurodegenerative disorders. 
However, the evidence for the association between epigenetic changes and SPMS is 
scarce. Thus, in this study we aimed to identify the key epigenetic genes in 
SPMS.
METHODS: We downloaded DNA methylation and gene expression matrices from the 
Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. We used bioinformatic analyses to 
identify key epigenetic genes associated with overall survival (OS) in patients 
with SPMS.
RESULTS: We found 49 differentially methylated positions (DMPs) between the SPMS 
and control GSE40360 datasets. We used the wANNOVAR server to obtain 64 
methylated genes. We merged the gene expression datasets (GSE131282 and 
GSE135511) in the NetworkAnalyst platform and found 12,442 
differentially-expressed genes (DEGs) between SPMS and controls using the 
Fisher's method, fixed effect model, Vote counting, and direct merging methods. 
Moreover, we identified 21 epigenetic genes (all hyper-methylated) after an 
integrating analysis of DMPs and DEGs of patients with SPMS. We established an 
epigenetic gene signature associated with the OS of patients with SPMS including 
six hyper-methylated genes (ITGA6, PPP1R16B, RNF126, ABHD8, FOXK1, and SLC6A19) 
based on the LASSO-Cox method. The calculated individual risk scores were 
associated with Oss, and we divided patients into high- and low-risk groups on 
the basis of the mean cut-off value. The six key epigenetic genes were 
significantly associated with gender, disease duration, and age at death via 
Spearman correlation analyses. In addition, survival analyses revealed a 
significant OS difference between high- and low-risk groups. The ROC curves 
indicated good performance for this predictive model.
CONCLUSION: We identified 21 hyper-methylated genes in patients with SPMS via an 
integrated analysis of DNA methylation and gene expression datasets. We 
identified a six-epigenetic gene signature that predicts the individual OS with 
good accuracy. These results indicated that epigenetic modifications play a 
vital role in the disease progression of SPMS.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2022.577809
PMID: 35026432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2022 Apr;57:33-35. doi: 
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2021.12.009. Epub 2022 Jan 10.

The Burden of schizophrenia.

Haro JM(1), McGrath JJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, Universitat de Barcelona, Sant Boi de 
Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red en Salud 
Mental (CIBERSAM), Spain. Electronic address: jmharo@pssjd.org.
(2)National Centre for Register-based Research, Aarhus University, Aarhus BSS, 
Aarhus, Denmark; Queensland Brain Institute, University of Queensland, St Lucia 
QLD 4072, Australia; Queensland Centre for Mental Health Research, The Park 
Centre for Mental Health, Queensland, Australia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2021.12.009
PMID: 35026617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. BMC Cancer. 2022 Jan 13;22(1):58. doi: 10.1186/s12885-021-09109-4.

The non-fatal burden of cancer in Belgium, 2004-2019: a nationwide 
registry-based study.

Gorasso V(1)(2), Silversmit G(3), Arbyn M(4)(5), Cornez A(4), De Pauw R(4)(6), 
De Smedt D(7), Grant I(8), Wyper GMA(8), Devleesschauwer B(4)(9), Speybroeck 
N(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Sciensano, Rue J Wytsman 14, 
1050, Brussels, Belgium. Vanessa.gorasso@sciensano.be.
(2)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Ghent University, Ghent, 
Belgium. Vanessa.gorasso@sciensano.be.
(3)Research Department, Belgian Cancer Registry, Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Sciensano, Rue J Wytsman 14, 
1050, Brussels, Belgium.
(5)Department of Human Structure and Repair, Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
(6)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
(7)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Ghent University, Ghent, 
Belgium.
(8)Public Health Scotland, Edinburgh, Scotland.
(9)Department of Translational Physiology, Infectiology and Public Health, Ghent 
University, Merelbeke, Belgium.
(10)Institute of Health and Society (IRSS), Catholic University of Louvain, 
Brussels, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: The importance of assessing and monitoring the health status of a 
population has grown in the last decades. Consistent and high quality data on 
the morbidity and mortality impact of a disease represent the key element for 
this assessment. Being increasingly used in global and national burden of 
diseases (BoD) studies, the Disability-Adjusted Life Year (DALY) is an indicator 
that combines healthy life years lost due to living with disease (Years Lived 
with Disability; YLD) and due to dying prematurely (Years of Life Lost; YLL). As 
a step towards a comprehensive national burden of disease study, this study aims 
to estimate the non-fatal burden of cancer in Belgium using national data.
METHODS: We estimated the Belgian cancer burden from 2004 to 2019 in terms of 
YLD, using national population-based cancer registry data and international 
disease models. We developed a microsimulation model to translate incidence- 
into prevalence-based estimates, and used expert elicitation to integrate the 
long-term impact of increased disability due to surgical treatment.
RESULTS: The age-standardized non-fatal burden of cancer increased from 2004 to 
2019 by 6 and 3% respectively for incidence- and prevalence-based YLDs. In 2019, 
in Belgium, breast cancer had the highest morbidity impact among women, followed 
by colorectal and non-melanoma skin cancer. Among men, prostate cancer had the 
highest morbidity impact, followed by colorectal and non-melanoma skin cancer. 
Between 2004 and 2019, non-melanoma skin cancer significantly increased for both 
sexes in terms of age-standardized incidence-based YLD per 100,000, from 49 to 
111 for men and from 15 to 44 for women. Important decreases were seen for 
colorectal cancer for both sexes in terms of age-standardized incidence-based 
YLD per 100,000, from 105 to 84 for men and from 66 to 58 for women.
CONCLUSIONS: Breast and prostate cancers represent the greatest proportion of 
cancer morbidity, while for both sexes the morbidity burden of skin cancer has 
shown an important increase from 2004 onwards. Integrating the current study in 
the Belgian national burden of disease study will allow monitoring of the burden 
of cancer over time, highlighting new trends and assessing the impact of public 
health policies.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-021-09109-4
PMCID: PMC8756629
PMID: 35026995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


509. BMC Public Health. 2022 Jan 13;22(1):89. doi: 10.1186/s12889-022-12504-6.

Analysis of death causes of residents in poverty-stricken Areas in 2020: take 
Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture in China as an example.

Liao R(#)(1), Hu L(#)(2), Liao Q(3), Zhu T(3), Yang H(2), Zhang T(4).

Author information:
(1)Sichuan Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 610041, Chengdu, Sichuan 
Province, China.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, West China School of Public 
Health, West China Fourth Hospital, Sichuan University, Renmin South Road 3rd 
Section NO.16, Sichuan Province, 610041, Chengdu, China.
(3)Liangshan Prefecture Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 615000, 
Xichang, Sichuan Province, China.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, West China School of Public 
Health, West China Fourth Hospital, Sichuan University, Renmin South Road 3rd 
Section NO.16, Sichuan Province, 610041, Chengdu, China. scdxzhangtao@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Continuous surveillance of death can measure health status of the 
population, reflect social development of a region, thus promote health service 
development in the region and improve the health level of local residents. 
Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture was a poverty-stricken region in Sichuan 
province, China. While at the end of 2020, as the announcement of its last seven 
former severely impoverished counties had shaken off poverty, Liangshan declared 
victory against poverty. Since it is well known that the mortality and cause of 
death structure will undergo some undesirable changes as the economy develops, 
this study aimed to reveal the distribution of deaths, as well as analyze the 
latest mortality and death causes distribution characteristics in Liangshan in 
2020, so as to provide references for the decision-making on health policies and 
the distribution of health resources in global poverty-stricken areas.
METHODS: Liangshan carried out the investigation on underreporting deaths among 
population in its 11 counties in 2018, and combined with the partially available 
data from underreporting deaths investigation data in 2020 and the field 
experience, we have estimated the underreporting rates of death in 2020 using 
capture-recapture (CRC) method. The crude mortality rate, age-standardized 
mortality rate, proportion and rank of the death causes, potential years of life 
lost (PYLL), average years of life lost (AYLL), potential years of life lost 
rate (PYLLR), standardized potential years of life lost (SPYLL), premature 
mortality from non-communicable diseases (premature NCD mortality), life 
expectancy and cause-eliminated life expectancy were estimated and corrected.
RESULTS: In 2020, Liangshan reported a total of 16,850 deaths, with a crude 
mortality rate of 608.75/100,000 and an age-standardized mortality rate of 
633.50/100,000. Male mortality was higher than female mortality, while 
0-year-old mortality of men was lower than women's. The former severely 
impoverished counties' age-standardized mortality and 0-year-old mortality were 
higher than those of the non-impoverished counties. The main cause of death 
spectrum was noncommunicable diseases (NCDs), and the premature NCD mortality of 
four major NCDs were 14.26% for the overall population, 19.16% for men and 9.27% 
for women. In the overall population, the top five death causes were heart 
diseases (112.07/100,000), respiratory diseases (105.85/100,000), 
cerebrovascular diseases (87.03/100,000), malignant tumors (73.92/100,000) and 
injury (43.89/100,000). Injury (64,216.78 person years), malignant tumors 
(41,478.33 person years) and heart diseases (29,647.83 person years) had the 
greatest burden on residents in Liangshan, and at the same time, the burden of 
most death causes on men were greater than those on women. The life expectancy 
was 76.25 years for overall population, 72.92 years for men and 80.17 years for 
women, respectively, all higher than the global level (73.3, 70.8 and 75.9 
years).
CONCLUSIONS: Taking Liangshan in China as an example, this study analyzed the 
latest death situation in poverty-stricken areas, and proposed suggestions on 
the formulation of health policies in other poverty-stricken areas both at home 
and abroad.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-022-12504-6
PMCID: PMC8758188
PMID: 35027039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


510. BMC Nutr. 2022 Jan 13;8(1):5. doi: 10.1186/s40795-022-00498-8.

An extract of Rosaceae, Solanaceae and Zingiberaceae increases health span and 
mobility in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Hughes S(1)(2), Kolsters N(1), van de Klashorst D(1), Kreuter E(3), Berger Büter 
K(4).

Author information:
(1)BioCentre, HAN University of Applied Sciences, 6525EM, Nijmegen, Netherlands.
(2)Department of Environment and Health, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, De 
Boelelaan 1085, 1081HV, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(3)Bioactive Botanicals Swiss AG, Emeligarten 6, 8592, Uttwil, Switzerland.
(4)Bioactive Botanicals Swiss AG, Emeligarten 6, 8592, Uttwil, Switzerland. 
kberger@bb-international.ch.

BACKGROUND: Members of the Rosaceae, Solanaceae and Zingiberaceae families which 
include fruits such as cherries, tomatoes and ginger are known to have health 
promoting effects. There is growing interest in consuming these "functional 
foods" as a means to increase health and healthy ageing. However, many studies 
explore the effect of these foods in isolation, not as a blend of multiple 
functional foods.
METHODS: In this study, an extract containing the dried berries, fruits, and 
roots of members of these families was prepared, which we called Bioact®180. The 
nematode Caenorhabditis elegans was used to evaluate the effects of Bioact®180 
on lifespan and health endpoints, including muscle and mitochondria structure 
and locomotion.
RESULTS: Exposure to the 1000 µg/mL of Bioact®180 extract, containing 4% total 
phenols, were healthier, as observed by an increase in mean lifespan with and 
small but significant increase in maximal lifespan. Nematodes exposed to 
Bioact®180 displayed better mobility in mid-life stages as well as enhanced 
mitochondrial morphology, which was more comparable to younger animals, 
suggesting that these worms are protected to some degree from sarcopenia.
CONCLUSIONS: Together, our findings reveal that Bioact®180, a blend of fruits 
and roots from Rosaceae, Solanaceae and Zingiberaceae family members has 
anti-aging effects. Bioact®180 promotes health and lifespan extension in C. 
elegans, corresponding to functional improvements in mobility.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40795-022-00498-8
PMCID: PMC8756710
PMID: 35027085

Conflict of interest statement: Karin Berger Büter and Emanuel Kreuter are of 
Bioactive Botanicals Swiss AG and have invented the composition of Bioact®180. 
All other authors have no competing interest to declare.


511. Acta Med Indones. 2021 Oct;53(4):442-449.

Palliative Prognostic Index Validation in Hospitalized Advanced Cancer Patients 
in Indonesia Tertiary Hospitals.

Shatri H(1), Prasetyaningtyas A, Putranto R, Rinaldi I.

Author information:
(1)1. Division of Psychosomatic and Pallliative, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Faculty of Medicine Universitas Indonesia - dr. Cipto Mangunkusumo 
Hospital, Jakarta, Indonesia. 2. Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Department of 
Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine Universitas Indonesia - dr. Cipto 
Mangunkusumo Hospital, Jakarta, Indonesia.. hshatri@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Accurate prediction of survival is important for advanced cancer 
patients to determine medical interventions plan the patient's lives and prepare 
for their death. The palliative prognostic index (PPI) is most popular scores 
used worldwide to predict life expectancy in advanced cancer palliative 
patients. The purpose of this study was to test validity and the performance of 
PPI in Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital as a Tertiary Referral Nasional Hospital.
METHODS: This retrospective cohort study, uses total subject during study with 
consecutive sampling. Palliative prognostic index was assessed by a palliative 
care team (PCT). Demographic data were summarized as n (%) and Chi square for 
categorical variables and median or mean for continuous variables. Overall 
survival was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method with hazard ratios. The 
performance of PPI analyzed using SPSS version 20.0, includes for Receiving 
Operator Characteristics (ROC) and Hosmer-Lemeshow calibration test.
RESULTS: 160 patients were included in the PPI study. The subjects  have an 
average age of 50.08 years and are mostly women 68.10%. 28 (17.50%) had symptoms 
of dyspnoea, 22 (14.60%) pneumonia, and 19 (11.90%) had pain. The number of 
patients who died during hospitalisation was 83 (51.90%). PPI sum score >6  109 
(68,10%). Calibration performance PPI score reached x2 = 8.915 (p = 0.259), and 
showed correlation  r 0.799 (p 0.000). The accuracy of PPI scores in predicting 
survival in advanced cancer patients in studies for survival <3 weeks 81%, with 
a sensitivity of 85%, specificity 70%, PPV 86%, and NPV 67%. Predictive accuracy 
of survival within 3-6 weeks had 76%, sensitivity 66%, specificity 88%, PPV 85% 
and NPV 70%. PPI score discrimination performance is had a AUC value of 0.822 
(95% CI 0.749-0.895).
CONCLUSION: Palliative Prognostic Index (PPI ) is valid and has good performance 
in predicting the survival of advanced cancer patients and may  be used to help 
clinicians in palliative care consultation.

PMID: 35027491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Pain. 2022 Sep 1;163(9):1740-1750. doi: 10.1097/j.pain.0000000000002557.
Epub  2021 Dec 15.

A global study of pain prevalence across 52 countries: examining the role of 
country-level contextual factors.

Zimmer Z(1)(2), Fraser K(1), Grol-Prokopczyk H(3), Zajacova A(4).

Author information:
(1)Global Aging and Community Initiative, Department of Family Studies and 
Gerontology, Mount Saint Vincent University, Halifax, NS, Canada.
(2)Department of Family Studies and Gerontology, Mount Saint Vincent University, 
Halifax, NS, Canada.
(3)Department of Sociology, University of Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, United States.
(4)Department of Sociology, University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada.

There is wide variation in population-level pain prevalence estimates in studies 
of survey data around the world. The role of country-level social, economic, and 
political contextual factors in explaining this variation has not been 
adequately examined. We estimated the prevalence of unspecified pain in adults 
aged 25+ years across 52 countries using data from the World Health Survey 2002 
to 2004. Combining data sources and estimating multilevel regressions, we 
compared country-level pain prevalence and explored which country-level 
contextual factors explain cross-country variations in prevalence, accounting 
for individual-level demographic factors. The overall weighted age- and 
sex-standardized prevalence of pain across countries was estimated to be 27.5%, 
with significant variation across countries (ranging from 9.9% to 50.3%). Women, 
older persons, and rural residents were significantly more likely to report 
pain. Five country-level variables had robust and significant associations with 
pain prevalence: the Gini Index, population density, the Gender Inequality 
Index, life expectancy, and global region. The model including Gender Inequality 
Index explained the most cross-country variance. However, even when accounting 
for country-level variables, some variation in pain prevalence remains, 
suggesting a complex interaction between personal, local, economic, and 
political impacts, as well as inherent differences in language, interpretations 
of health, and other difficult to assess cultural idiosyncrasies. The results 
give new insight into the high prevalence of pain around the world and its 
demonstrated association with macrofactors, particularly income and gender 
inequalities, providing justification for regarding pain as a global health 
priority.

Copyright © 2022 International Association for the Study of Pain.

DOI: 10.1097/j.pain.0000000000002557
PMCID: PMC9198107
PMID: 35027516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement The authors have 
no conflicts of interest to declare.


513. Sci Rep. 2022 Jan 13;12(1):667. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-04560-6.

Extension of human GCSF serum half-life by the fusion of albumin binding domain.

Nikravesh FY(1), Shirkhani S(1), Bayat E(1), Talebkhan Y(2), Mirabzadeh E(3), 
Sabzalinejad M(1), Aliabadi HAM(1), Nematollahi L(1), Ardakani YH(4), Sardari 
S(1).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran. 
talebkhan@pasteur.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Molecular Medicine, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Biopharmaceutics and Pharmacokinetic Division, Department of Pharmaceutics, 
Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran, Iran. yh-ardakani@tums.ac.ir.

Granulocyte colony stimulating factor (GCSF) can decrease mortality of patients 
undergo chemotherapy through increasing neutrophil counts. Many strategies have 
been developed to improve its blood circulating time. Albumin binding domain 
(ABD) was genetically fused to N-terminal end of GCSF encoding sequence and 
expressed as cytoplasmic inclusion bodies within Escherichia coli. Biological 
activity of ABD-GCSF protein was assessed by proliferation assay on NFS-60 
cells. Physicochemical properties were analyzed through size exclusion 
chromatography, circular dichroism, intrinsic fluorescence spectroscopy and 
dynamic light scattering. Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetic properties were 
also investigated in a neutropenic rat model. CD and IFS spectra revealed that 
ABD fusion to GCSF did not significantly affect the secondary and tertiary 
structures of the molecule. DLS and SEC results indicated the absence of 
aggregation formation. EC50 value of the ABD-GCSF in proliferation of NFS-60 
cells was 75.76 pg/ml after 72 h in comparison with control GCSF molecules 
(Filgrastim: 73.1 pg/ml and PEG-Filgrastim: 44.6 pg/ml). Animal studies of 
ABD-GCSF represented improved serum half-life (9.3 ± 0.7 h) and consequently 
reduced renal clearance (16.1 ± 1.4 ml/h.kg) in comparison with Filgrastim 
(1.7 ± 0.1 h). Enhanced neutrophils count following administration of ABD-GCSF 
was comparable with Filgrastim and weaker than PEG-Filgrastim treated rats. In 
vitro and in vivo results suggested the ABD fusion as a potential approach for 
improving GCSF properties.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-04560-6
PMCID: PMC8758692
PMID: 35027593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


514. Psychol Res Behav Manag. 2022 Jan 7;15:83-93. doi: 10.2147/PRBM.S341299. 
eCollection 2022.

Magnitude and Factors Affecting Parental Stress and Effective Stress Management 
Strategies Among Family Members During COVID-19.

Kandula UR(1), Wake AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, College of Health Sciences, Arsi University, Asella, 
Oromia Regional State, Ethiopia.

The pandemic outbreak, coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) threatens proper 
family patterns by disrupting normal day-to-day activities, such as working 
patterns of parents by working from home, online children's education rather 
than regular school, a dilemma in children's education and health constrained 
movement by complete or partial home lockdowns to prevent disease spread, 
anxiety of disease spread, failure of home quarantine due to insufficient home 
situation and reduced personal protective equipment usage due to the extra 
financial burden, reduced social communications, increased health burdens than 
usual along with enormous toil with dependent family members, demands of 
financial burdens by multiple factors, reduced monthly income during pandemics, 
lack of employment or job insecurity, deviations in mental health among family 
members such as fear, anxiety, insomnia, severe depression, hetero aggression, 
child verbal or physical abuses, increased alcohol consumption and substance 
abuse or drug addictions, aggressive behavior, self-blaming or injury, 
unintentional suicidal tendencies, mood disorders, posttraumatic stress disorder 
and failure to meet health demands due to a lack of health facilities. Many 
contributing factors are affecting the normal family status than usual 
circumstances such as reduced hospital equipment or resources which is due to 
pandemic effects, social isolation due to outside quarantine measures, 
insecurity of the future and ongoing pandemic situation, fear of vaccination 
side effects, and so on. Therefore, we hope to raise awareness about the 
magnitude of parental stress levels and contributing factors. Moreover, these 
findings would encourage effective stress management to overcome the factors 
that contribute to parenteral stress and to improve coping skills to face the 
coming darkness with ease. It supports the preservation of physical, mental, and 
social well-being in families as well as minimizing or overcoming stressors, 
maintaining strong familial ties, and improving life expectancy globally during 
this pandemic.

© 2022 Kandula and Wake.

DOI: 10.2147/PRBM.S341299
PMCID: PMC8752870
PMID: 35027855

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared that there is no conflict 
of interest related to this work.


515. JIMD Rep. 2021 Nov 21;63(1):93-100. doi: 10.1002/jmd2.12262. eCollection
2022  Jan.

Neurocognitive profile of adults with the Norrbottnian type of Gaucher disease.

Tsitsi P(1)(2), Markaki I(1)(2), Waldthaler J(3), Machaczka M(4)(5)(6), 
Svenningsson P(1)(2)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience Karolinska Institutet Stockholm Sweden.
(2)Center for Neurology Academic Specialist Center Stockholm Sweden.
(3)Department of Neurology University Hospital Marburg Marburg Germany.
(4)Department of Human Pathophysiology Institute of Medical Sciences, University 
of Rzeszów Rzeszów Poland.
(5)Department of Clinical Science and Education, Division of Internal Medicine, 
Södersjukhuset Karolinska Institutet Stockholm Sweden.
(6)Department of Medicine Sunderby Hospital Luleå Sweden.
(7)Department of Neurology Karolinska University Hospital Stockholm Sweden.

INTRODUCTION: Gaucher disease (GD) is a monogenic, lysosomal storage disorder, 
classified according to the presence of acute (type 2), chronic (type 3), or no 
(type 1) neurological manifestations. The Norrbottnian subtype of neuronopathic 
GD type 3 (GD3) is relatively frequent in the northern part of Sweden. It 
exhibits a wide range of neurological symptoms but is characterized by extended 
life expectancy compared to GD3 in other countries. The aim of our study was to 
describe the cognitive profile of adult patients with Norrbottnian GD3.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ten patients with GD3 (five males and five females) 
underwent neurocognitive testing with the Repeatable Battery for Assessment of 
Neuropsychological Status (RBANS). RBANS consists of different short tests that 
assess Immediate Memory, Visuospatial and Constructional function, Language, 
Attention, and Delayed Memory. General neurological symptoms of the patients 
were assessed with the modified severity scoring tool.
RESULTS: Patients (median age 41.5 range 24-57) performed lower than average in 
all cognitive domains. The overall index score was low (median 58.5, 
Interquartile range [IQR] 25.5), with the most profound deficit in attention 
(median 57, IQR 32.5) and immediate memory (median 76.5, IQR 13). Higher scores 
were found in language (median 83, IQR 21.5), delayed memory (median 81, IQR 
41), and visuospatial/constructional function (median 86, IQR 32.35).
CONCLUSION: Norrbottnian GD3 patients showed a unique neurocognitive profile 
with low overall performance, mostly derived from low scores in attention and 
memory domains whereas language and visuospatial/constructional ability were 
relatively spared.

© 2021 The Authors. JIMD Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of 
SSIEM.

DOI: 10.1002/jmd2.12262
PMCID: PMC8743341
PMID: 35028274

Conflict of interest statement: Panagiota Tsitsi has received reimbursement from 
Parkinsonfonden, for attending the European Academy of Neurology Congress in 
Lisbon, 2018 in order to present preliminary results of the study. Panagiota 
Tsitsi and Per Svenningsson are investigators in the MOVES‐PD study sponsored by 
Sanofi‐Genzyme. Per Svenningsson and Maciej Machaczka have received honoraria 
for lecturing on Gaucher disease from Sanofi‐Genzyme and Shire/Takeda. The other 
authors declare that they have no significant competing financial, professional, 
or personal interests that might have influenced the performance or presentation 
of the work described in this manuscript.


516. Open Forum Infect Dis. 2021 Dec 5;9(1):ofab603. doi: 10.1093/ofid/ofab603. 
eCollection 2022 Jan.

Cost-effectiveness of Routine Provider-Initiated Testing and Counseling for 
Children With Undiagnosed HIV in South Africa.

Stanic T(1), McCann N(1), Penazzato M(2), Flanagan C(1), Essajee S(3), Freedberg 
KA(1)(4)(5)(6), Doherty M(2), Putta N(3), Myer L(7), Siberry GK(8), Collins 
IJ(9), Vojnov L(2), Abrams E(10)(11), Soeteman DI(1)(12), Ciaranello 
AL(1)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Medical Practice Evaluation Center, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Department of HIV/AIDS, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)UNICEF, New York, New York, USA.
(4)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(6)Division of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)School of Public Health and Family Medicine, University of Cape Town, Cape 
Town, South Africa.
(8)Office of HIV/AIDS, United States Agency for International Development, 
Washington, DC, USA.
(9)MRC Clinical Trials Unit at UCL, Institute of Clinical Trials & Methodology, 
University College London, London, UK.
(10)ICAP at Columbia University, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia 
University, New York, New York, USA.
(11)Department of Pediatrics, Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, New York, USA.
(12)Center for Health Decision Science, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: We compared the cost-effectiveness of pediatric provider-initiated 
HIV testing and counseling (PITC) vs no PITC in a range of clinical care 
settings in South Africa.
METHODS: We used the Cost-Effectiveness of Preventing AIDS Complications 
Pediatric model to simulate a cohort of children, aged 2-10 years, presenting 
for care in 4 settings (outpatient, malnutrition, inpatient, tuberculosis 
clinic) with varying prevalence of undiagnosed HIV (1.0%, 15.0%, 17.5%, 50.0%, 
respectively). We compared "PITC" (routine testing offered to all patients; 97% 
acceptance and 71% linkage to care after HIV diagnosis) with no PITC. Model 
outcomes included life expectancy, lifetime costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) from the health care system perspective and 
the proportion of children with HIV (CWH) diagnosed, on antiretroviral therapy 
(ART), and virally suppressed. We assumed a threshold of $3200/year of life 
saved (YLS) to determine cost-effectiveness. Sensitivity analyses varied the age 
distribution of children seeking care and costs for PITC, HIV care, and ART.
RESULTS: PITC improved the proportion of CWH diagnosed (45.2% to 83.2%), on ART 
(40.8% to 80.4%), and virally suppressed (32.6% to 63.7%) at 1 year in all 
settings. PITC increased life expectancy by 0.1-0.7 years for children seeking 
care (including those with and without HIV). In all settings, the ICER of PITC 
vs no PITC was very similar, ranging from $710 to $1240/YLS. PITC remained 
cost-effective unless undiagnosed HIV prevalence was <0.2%.
CONCLUSIONS: Routine testing improves HIV clinical outcomes and is 
cost-effective in South Africa if the prevalence of undiagnosed HIV among 
children exceeds 0.2%. These findings support current recommendations for PITC 
in outpatient, inpatient, tuberculosis, and malnutrition clinical settings.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Infectious Diseases Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/ofid/ofab603
PMCID: PMC8753042
PMID: 35028333


517. Heliyon. 2021 Dec 28;8(1):e08676. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2021.e08676. 
eCollection 2022 Jan.

Willingness to pay for the ecological restoration of an inland freshwater 
shallow lake: case of Lake Malombe, Malawi.

Makwinja R(1)(2), Mengistou S(1), Kaunda E(3), Alamirew T(4).

Author information:
(1)African Centre of Excellence for Water Management, College of Natural and 
Computational Sciences, Addis Ababa University, P. O. Box 1176, Addis Ababa, 
Ethiopia.
(2)Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources, Fisheries Department, Senga Bay 
Fisheries Research Center, P. O. Box 316, Salima, Malawi.
(3)African Centre of Excellence in Aquaculture and Fisheries (AquaFish), 
Lilongwe University of Agriculture and Natural Resources, P. O. Box 219, 
Lilongwe, Malawi.
(4)Ethiopian Institute of Water Resource, Addis Ababa University, P. O. Box 
1176, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

Lake Malombe is ranked among the most vulnerable inland freshwater shallow lakes 
in Malawi. The lake has lost over US$79.83 million ecosystem service values from 
1999 to 2019 due to rapid population growth, increased poverty, landscape 
transformation, and over exploitation-hampering the effort to achieve United 
Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in particular, life 
underwater (SDG 14), life on land (SDG 15), climate action (SDG 13), and no 
poverty (SDG 1) and Aichi Biodiversity Targets. In line with the 2021-2030 
United Nations' Declaration on massive upscaling of the ecosystems restoration 
effort, this study applied the contingent valuation method (CVM) and binary 
logistic regression model to determine the public's willingness to pay (WTP) for 
ecosystem restoration and the influencing factors. The aim was to integrate 
science into policy framework to achieve a sustainable flow of ecosystem 
services (ESs). Qualitative data were collected by employing focus group 
discussion, key informant interviews, and field observation. Quantitative data 
were collected using structured questionnaires covering 420 households. The 
results revealed that 56% of the respondents were willing to pay an average of 
US$28.42/household/year. These respondents believed that the initiative would 
improve lake ESs, fish biodiversity, income level, water quality and mitigate 
climate change impact. Age, gender, literacy, income, social trust, 
institutional trust, access to extension services, period stay in the area, 
household distance from the lake, lake ecological dynamics impact, having the 
hope of reviving the lake health ecological status, perception of having lake 
ecological restoration program, participation in lake restoration program, 
access to food from the lake, involved in fishing and Lake Malombe primary 
livelihood sources significantly (p < 0.05) influenced WTP. This study provides 
a reference point to policymakers to undertake cost-benefit analysis and develop 
a practical policy response framework to reverse the situation and achieve 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and Aichi Biodiversity Targets.

© 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2021.e08676
PMCID: PMC8741457
PMID: 35028459

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


518. Transbound Emerg Dis. 2022 Sep;69(5):2963-2970. doi: 10.1111/tbed.14454.
Epub  2022 Jan 31.

Web crawling of social media and related web platforms to analyze backyard 
poultry owners responses to the 2018-2020 Newcastle Disease (ND) outbreak in 
Southern California.

Gendreau J(1), Ramsubeik S(2), Pitesky M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health and Reproduction, School of Veterinary 
Medicine-Cooperative Extension, University of California, Davis, California.
(2)California Animal Health and Food Safety Laboratory (CAHFS), Turlock, 
California.

