DOI: 10.3390/cancers14010009
PMCID: PMC8750205
PMID: 35008176

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data, in the writing of the manuscript or in the decision to 
publish the results.


443. Cancers (Basel). 2021 Dec 24;14(1):94. doi: 10.3390/cancers14010094.

Orbital Metastases: A Systematic Review of Clinical Characteristics, Management 
Strategies, and Treatment Outcomes.

Palmisciano P(1), Ferini G(2), Ogasawara C(3), Wahood W(4), Bin Alamer O(5), 
Gupta AD(6), Scalia G(7), Larsen AMG(8), Yu K(8), Umana GE(1), Cohen-Gadol 
AA(9), El Ahmadieh TY(8), Haider AS(6)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Trauma Center, Gamma Knife Center, Cannizzaro 
Hospital, 95126 Catania, Italy.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, REM Radioterapia srl, 95029 Viagrande, 
Italy.
(3)John A. Burns School of Medicine, University of Hawai'i, Honolulu, HI 96813, 
USA.
(4)Kiran C. Patel College of Allopathic Medicine, Nova Southeastern University, 
Davie, FL 33328, USA.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, King Abdullah International Medical Research 
Center, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(6)College of Medicine, Texas A&M University, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, Highly Specialized Hospital and of National 
Importance "Garibaldi", 95126 Catania, Italy.
(8)Department of Neurosurgery, Brain Metastasis Center, Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Cancer Center, New York, NY 10065, USA.
(9)Department of Neurological Surgery, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, IN 46077, USA.
(10)Department of Neurosurgery, Anderson Cancer Center, The University of Texas 
M.D., Houston, TX 77030, USA.

BACKGROUND: Orbital metastases often lead to severe functional impairment. The 
role of resection, orbital exenteration, and complementary treatments is still 
debated. We systematically reviewed the literature on orbital metastases.
METHODS: PubMed, Scopus, Web-of-Science, and Cochrane were searched upon PRISMA 
guidelines to identify studies on orbital metastases. Clinical characteristics, 
management strategies, and survival were analyzed.
RESULTS: We included 262 studies comprising 873 patients. Median age was 59 
years. The most frequent primary tumors were breast (36.3%), melanoma (10.1%), 
and prostate (8.5%) cancers, with median time interval of 12 months (range, 
0-420). The most common symptoms were proptosis (52.3%) and 
relative-afferent-pupillary-defect (38.7%). Most metastases showed a diffuse 
location within the orbit (19%), with preferential infiltration of orbital soft 
tissues (40.2%). In 47 cases (5.4%), tumors extended intracranially. Incisional 
biopsy (63.7%) was preferred over fine-needle aspiration (10.2%), with partial 
resection (16.6%) preferred over complete (9.5%). Orbital exenteration was 
pursued in 26 patients (3%). A total of 305 patients (39.4%) received 
chemotherapy, and 506 (58%) received orbital radiotherapy. Post-treatment 
symptom improvement was significantly superior after resection (p = 0.005) and 
orbital radiotherapy (p = 0.032). Mean follow-up was 14.3 months, and median 
overall survival was 6 months. Fifteen cases (1.7%) demonstrated recurrence with 
median local control of six months. Overall survival was statistically increased 
in patients with breast cancer (p < 0.001) and in patients undergoing resection 
(p = 0.024) but was not correlated with orbital location (p = 0.174), 
intracranial extension (p = 0.073), biopsy approach (p = 0.344), 
extent-of-resection (p = 0.429), or orbital exenteration (p = 0.153).
CONCLUSIONS: Orbital metastases severely impair patient quality of life. 
Surgical resection safely provides symptom and survival benefit compared to 
biopsy, while orbital radiotherapy significantly improves symptoms compared to 
not receiving radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14010094
PMCID: PMC8750198
PMID: 35008259

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


444. Cancers (Basel). 2021 Dec 25;14(1):96. doi: 10.3390/cancers14010096.

Prognostic Biomarkers in Uveal Melanoma: The Status Quo, Recent Advances and 
Future Directions.

Lamas NJ(1)(2)(3)(4), Martel A(5)(6)(7), Nahon-Estève S(5)(6)(7), Goffinet S(1), 
Macocco A(1), Bertolotto C(8), Lassalle S(1)(5)(6), Hofman P(1)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Clinical and Experimental Pathology, Université Côte d'Azur, 
Pasteur Hospital, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Nice, Biobank 
BB-0033-00025, 06000 Nice, France.
(2)Anatomic Pathology Service, Pathology Department, Centro Hospitalar e 
Universitário do Porto, Largo Professor Abel Salazar, 4099-001 Porto, Portugal.
(3)Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), School of Medicine, 
University of Minho, Campus de Gualtar, 4710-057 Braga, Portugal.
(4)ICVS/3B's-PT Government Associate Laboratory, University of Minho, 4710-057 
Braga, Portugal.
(5)IRCAN Team 4, Inserm U1081/CNRS 7284, Centre de Lutte Contre le Cancer 
Antoine Lacassagne, 06000 Nice, France.
(6)FHU OncoAge, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Nice, 06000 Nice, France.
(7)Department of Ophthalmology, Pasteur Hospital, Centre Hospitalier 
Universitaire de Nice, 06000 Nice, France.
(8)Department of Biology and Pathologies of Melanocytes, Team1, Equipe 
Labellisée Ligue 2020 and Equipe Labellisée ARC 2019, Centre Méditerranéen de 
Médecine Moléculaire, INSERM, 06200 Nice, France.

Uveal melanoma (UM) is the most common malignant intraocular tumour in the adult 
population. It is a rare cancer with an incidence of nearly five cases per 
million inhabitants per year, which develops from the uncontrolled proliferation 
of melanocytes in the choroid (≈90%), ciliary body (≈6%) or iris (≈4%). Patients 
initially present either with symptoms like blurred vision or photopsia, or 
without symptoms, with the tumour being detected in routine eye exams. Over the 
course of the disease, metastases, which are initially dormant, develop in 
nearly 50% of patients, preferentially in the liver. Despite decades of 
intensive research, the only approach proven to mildly control disease spread 
are early treatments directed to ablate liver metastases, such as surgical 
excision or chemoembolization. However, most patients have a limited life 
expectancy once metastases are detected, since there are limited therapeutic 
approaches for the metastatic disease, including immunotherapy, which unlike in 
cutaneous melanoma, has been mostly ineffective for UM patients. Therefore, in 
order to offer the best care possible to these patients, there is an urgent need 
to find robust models that can accurately predict the prognosis of UM, as well 
as therapeutic strategies that effectively block and/or limit the spread of the 
metastatic disease. Here, we initially summarized the current knowledge about UM 
by compiling the most relevant epidemiological, clinical, pathological and 
molecular data. Then, we revisited the most important prognostic factors 
currently used for the evaluation and follow-up of primary UM cases. Afterwards, 
we addressed emerging prognostic biomarkers in UM, by comprehensively reviewing 
gene signatures, immunohistochemistry-based markers and proteomic markers 
resulting from research studies conducted over the past three years. Finally, we 
discussed the current hurdles in the field and anticipated the future challenges 
and novel avenues of research in UM.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14010096
PMCID: PMC8749988
PMID: 35008260

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


445. Cancers (Basel). 2021 Dec 26;14(1):99. doi: 10.3390/cancers14010099.

Nelfinavir Induces Cytotoxicity towards High-Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer Cells, 
Involving Induction of the Unfolded Protein Response, Modulation of Protein 
Synthesis, DNA Damage, Lysosomal Impairment, and Potentiation of Toxicity Caused 
by Proteasome Inhibition.

Subeha MR(1), Goyeneche AA(1)(2), Bustamante P(2), Lisio MA(1), Burnier 
JV(1)(2), Telleria CM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Experimental Pathology Unit, Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, McGill University, Montreal, QC H3A 2B4, Canada.
(2)Cancer Research Program, Research Institute, McGill University Health Centre, 
Montreal, QC H4A 3JI, Canada.

High-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) is a significant cause of mortality 
among women worldwide. Traditional treatment consists of platinum-based therapy; 
however, rapid development of platinum resistance contributes to lower life 
expectancy, warranting newer therapies to supplement the current platinum-based 
protocol. Repurposing market-available drugs as cancer therapeutics is a cost- 
and time-effective way to avail new therapies to drug-resistant patients. The 
anti-HIV agent nelfinavir (NFV) has shown promising toxicity against various 
cancers; however, its role against HGSOC is unknown. Here, we studied the effect 
of NFV against HGSOC cells obtained from patients along disease progression and 
carrying different sensitivities to platinum. NFV triggered, independently of 
platinum sensitivity, a dose-dependent reduction in the HGSOC cell number and 
viability, and a parallel increase in hypo-diploid DNA content. Moreover, a 
dose-dependent reduction in clonogenic survival of cells escaping the acute 
toxicity was indicative of long-term residual damage. In addition, dose- and 
time-dependent phosphorylation of H2AX indicated NFV-mediated DNA damage, which 
was associated with decreased survival and proliferation signals driven by the 
AKT and ERK pathways. NFV also mediated a dose-dependent increase in endoplasmic 
reticulum stress-related molecules associated with long-term inhibition of 
protein synthesis and concurrent cell death; such events were accompanied by a 
proapoptotic environment, signaled by increased phospho-eIF2α, ATF4, and CHOP, 
increased Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, and cleaved executer caspase-7. Finally, we show that 
NFV potentiates the short-term cell cycle arrest and long-term toxicity caused 
by the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib. Overall, our in vitro study demonstrates 
that NFV can therapeutically target HGSOC cells of differential platinum 
sensitivities via several mechanisms, suggesting its prospective repurposing 
benefit considering its good safety profile.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14010099
PMCID: PMC8750028
PMID: 35008264

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


446. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Dec 21;23(1):30. doi: 10.3390/ijms23010030.

Metabolic Therapy of Heart Failure: Is There a Future for B Vitamins?

Piquereau J(1), Boitard SE(1), Ventura-Clapier R(1), Mericskay M(1).

Author information:
(1)UMR-S 1180, Inserm Unit of Signaling and Cardiovascular Pathophysiology, 
Faculty of Pharmacy, Université Paris-Saclay, 92296 Chatenay-Malabry, France.

Heart failure (HF) is a plague of the aging population in industrialized 
countries that continues to cause many deaths despite intensive research into 
more effective treatments. Although the therapeutic arsenal to face heart 
failure has been expanding, the relatively short life expectancy of HF patients 
is pushing towards novel therapeutic strategies. Heart failure is associated 
with drastic metabolic disorders, including severe myocardial mitochondrial 
dysfunction and systemic nutrient deprivation secondary to severe cardiac 
dysfunction. To date, no effective therapy has been developed to restore the 
cardiac energy metabolism of the failing myocardium, mainly due to the metabolic 
complexity and intertwining of the involved processes. Recent years have 
witnessed a growing scientific interest in natural molecules that play a pivotal 
role in energy metabolism with promising therapeutic effects against heart 
failure. Among these molecules, B vitamins are a class of water soluble vitamins 
that are directly involved in energy metabolism and are of particular interest 
since they are intimately linked to energy metabolism and HF patients are often 
B vitamin deficient. This review aims at assessing the value of B vitamin 
supplementation in the treatment of heart failure.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms23010030
PMCID: PMC8744601
PMID: 35008448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


447. Foods. 2022 Jan 4;11(1):119. doi: 10.3390/foods11010119.

Bioactives of Pomegranate By-Products and Barley Malt Grass Engage in Cereal 
Composite Bar to Achieve Antimycotic and Anti-Aflatoxigenic Attributes.

Khojah EY(1), Badr AN(2), Mohamed DA(1)(3), Abdel-Razek AG(4).

Author information:
(1)Food Science and Nutrition Department, Faculty of Science, Taif University, 
Taif 26571, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Food Toxicology and Contaminants Department, National Research Centre, Dokki, 
Cairo 12622, Egypt.
(3)Home Economic Department, Faculty of Education, Suez Canal University, 
Ismailia 41511, Egypt.
(4)Fats and Oils Department, National Research Centre, Dokki, Cairo 12622, 
Egypt.

Food is the source from where a person obtains the body's daily requirements. 
People's current daily habits force them to consume fast food, which is known 
for its poor nutritional and safety features. So, it is urgent to provide a 
suitable substitution product to solve this issue. The present investigation 
aimed to produce a bar with a dual function: nutritional and long shelf life. 
Two materials were chosen to support the bar manufacturing regarding their 
bioactive contents, barley malt grass (BMG) and pomegranate byproducts (PBD). 
Chemical composition, antioxidant, and antimicrobial potency were measured. 
Β-carotene, vitamin C, and tocopherol were determined using HPLC apparatus. 
Extracts' bio-safety against cell lines was determined, besides their 
enhancement against cell-death factors. Simulation experiments were designed to 
evaluate extracts' impact to extend bar shelf life. Data represented the 
richness of essential minerals and fibers. Results of the FTIR reflected the 
existence of various active groups in the contents. Phenolic fractions of PBD 
are distinctive for their content of ellagic (39.21 ± 5.42 mg/kg), ferulic acid 
fractions (31.28 ± 4.07 mg/kg) which is a known with antifungal activity. 
Extracts and their mix (1:1) represented inhibition zone diameters that reach 
15.1 ± 1.66 mm for bacteria and 23.81 ± 1.41 mm for fungi. Extracts were shown 
to have better safety against the cell line strain of hepatic HL-7702, with an 
elevation of a harmful dose of aflatoxin (IC50 304.5 µg/mL for PBD, IC50 381 
µg/mL for BMG). Sensory evaluation of fortified bars reflected a preferable 
application of mix (1:1) due to color attributes and panelist evaluations, the 
same result recorded for simulation studies. The experiment recommended applying 
a mix (1:1) of BMG: PBD in addition to their extracts (200 mg/kg dough) for 
functional bar manufacturing with antifungal properties.

DOI: 10.3390/foods11010119
PMCID: PMC8750530
PMID: 35010246

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


448. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Dec 23;19(1):153. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19010153.

Factors Associated with Thoughts of Self-Harm or Suicide among Aboriginal and 
Torres Strait Islander People Presenting to Urban Primary Care: An Analysis of 
De-Identified Clinical Data.

Pandeya NA(1), Schluter PJ(1)(2), Spurling GK(1)(3), Tyson C(3), Hayman 
NE(1)(3), Askew DA(1).

Author information:
(1)General Practice Clinical Unit, School of Clinical Medicine, Royal Brisbane & 
Women's Hospital, The University of Queensland, Herston, QLD 4029, Australia.
(2)School of Health Sciences, University of Canterbury-Te Whare Wānanga o 
Waitaha, Christchurch 8140, New Zealand.
(3)Southern Queensland Centre of Excellence in Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander Primary Health Care, Metro South Health, P.O. Box 52, Inala, QLD 4077, 
Australia.

Suicide amongst Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people is a major cause of 
premature mortality and a significant contributor to the health and life 
expectancy gap. This study aimed to estimate the prevalence of thoughts of 
self-harm or suicide in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people attending 
an urban primary health care service and identify factors associated with these 
thoughts. Multilevel mixed-effects modified Poisson regression models were 
employed to analyse three years of data gathered during the annual Aboriginal 
and Torres Strait Islander health assessments. At their first health assessment, 
11.5% (191/1664) of people reported thoughts of suicide or self-harm in the 
prior two weeks. Having children, participating in sport or community activities 
or being employed full-time decreased the risk of such thoughts. Conversely, 
factors relating to social exclusion including homelessness, drug use, 
unemployment and job insecurity increased the risk of thoughts of self-harm or 
suicide. Individual clinicians, health services, and policy-makers all have a 
role in suicide prevention. Clinicians need appropriate training to be able to 
respond to people expressing these thoughts. Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander community organisations need sovereignty and self-determination over 
resources to provide programs that promote cultural connectivity and address 
social exclusion, thereby saving lives.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19010153
PMCID: PMC8750353
PMID: 35010413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors G.K.S., C.T. and N.E.H. were all 
employed at the Inala COE during the conduct of this study. The funders had no 
role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation 
of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to publish the 
results.


449. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Dec 28;19(1):288. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19010288.

Colorado Burden of Disease, Injuries and Risk Factors, 1990-2019: A Sub-Analysis 
of the Global Burden of Disease Study.

Roux J(1)(2), Rojas-Rueda D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Colorado School of Public Health, Colorado State University, 1601 Campus 
Delivery, Fort Collins, CO 80523, USA.
(2)Department of Environmental and Radiological Health Sciences, Colorado State 
University, Fort Collins, CO 80523, USA.

(1) Background: Health disparities across the United States (U.S.) are 
increasing. Large variations in risk factors and health outcomes have been 
described among states from the U.S. (2) AIM. This study aims to describe health 
trends in morbidity, mortality, and risk factors from 1990 to 2019 in the State 
of Colorado. (3) Methods: We describe the measures of health loss for 286 causes 
of death, 369 diseases and injuries, and 87 risk factors for the state of 
Colorado from the Global Burden of Disease project estimates between 1990 to 
2019. (4) Results: We found that 21,171 and 40,724 deaths were estimated in 1990 
and 2019, respectively, in Colorado. The leading cause of death, in both sexes, 
in 1990 and 2019 was ischemic heart disease (IHD). The top leading 
disability-adjusted life years (DALY) diagnoses were IHD, followed by low back 
pain, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and opioid use disorder. In 2019, 
the top risk factors by DALYs in Colorado were smoking, drug use, high body mass 
index (BMI), alcohol use, high fasting plasma glucose, and high systolic blood 
pressure. (5) Conclusion: Non-communicable diseases and their related risk 
factors are the top leading causes of DALYs in Colorado. Findings support the 
need for policies to prevent non-communicable diseases, with special attention 
to musculoskeletal disorders and interventions to reduce tobacco, alcohol, and 
drug use.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19010288
PMCID: PMC8744865
PMID: 35010548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Jen Roux did not receive specific funding for 
this work and declares that she has no actual or potential competing economic 
interest. David Rojas-Rueda did not receive specific funding for this work and 
declares that he has no actual or potential competing economic interest.


450. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Dec 30;19(1):394. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19010394.

Impact of Health Literacy on the Progression of Frailty after 4 Years among 
Community-Dwelling Older Adults.

Yoshizawa Y(1)(2), Tanaka T(3), Takahashi K(3)(4), Fujisaki-Sueda-Sakai M(3)(5), 
Son BK(3)(6), Iijima K(3)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Healthy Life Expectancy, Graduate School of Medicine Juntendo 
University, Tokyo 113-0034, Japan.
(2)School of Nursing, Tokyo Women's Medical University, Tokyo 162-8666, Japan.
(3)Institute of Gerontology, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan.
(4)Department of Public Health, School of Medicine, Dokkyo Medical University, 
Mibu 321-0293, Japan.
(5)Department of Public Health Nursing, School of Health Science, Tohoku 
University, Sendai 980-8575, Japan.
(6)Institute for Future Initiatives, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo 113-8656, 
Japan.

Health literacy (HL) promotes healthy lifestyle behaviors among older adults, 
and its relationship with frailty remains unclear. This study examined whether 
HL is a predictor of frailty progression among community-dwelling older adults. 
Data from two surveys conducted in 2012 and 2016 involving older residents (mean 
age, 71.6 ± 4.6 years) of Kashiwa City, Chiba Prefecture, Japan were used. Only 
healthy individuals without frailty and cognitive impairments participated in 
the 2012 assessment, where the Kihon Checklist (KCL), HL, and other variables 
were assessed. Logistic and multiple logistic analyses were used to assess the 
effects of HL and other factors on frailty between the 'high HL' vs. 'low HL' 
groups in 2012 and between the 'robust' vs. 'frailty-progressing' groups in 
2016. Of the 621 robust participants, 154 (25.4%) had progression of frailty in 
2016, which was significantly associated with advanced age, higher KCL score, 
lower HL, poor mental health, and lack of social support. Furthermore, low HL 
was a predictor of frailty progression. Low HL may be associated with frailty 
progression. The obtained results suggest that increased health literacy should 
be effective in preventing frailty for community-dwelling older residents.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19010394
PMCID: PMC8744550
PMID: 35010654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funder had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


451. Nutrients. 2021 Dec 30;14(1):165. doi: 10.3390/nu14010165.

Determination of the Awareness about and Need for Health Support Pharmacies as 
the Provider of Consultation Service about Nutrition Education and Diet-Related 
Health Promotion by Health Professionals in Japan.

Chiba T(1), Tanemura N(1), Nishijima C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Function and Labeling, National Institute of Health and 
Nutrition, National Institutes of Biomedical Innovation, Health and Nutrition, 
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 162-8363, Japan.

Health support pharmacies (HSPs) have been established as a new category of 
pharmacies in Japan. In addition to prescriptions, HSPs provide several health 
services, including consultations on diet/nutrition, health foods, and nursing 
care. Therefore, not only individuals receiving medications but also community 
residents should have access to HSPs. However, it is unclear whether people are 
aware of HSPs. Thus, the purpose of this study was to assess the awareness about 
HSPs and determine the need for their services. To this end, we conducted an 
online cross-sectional questionnaire survey in 10,000 Japanese adults. 
Approximately 60.2% of the participants were aware of family 
pharmacies/pharmacists, and 21.8% of these participants had a family 
pharmacy/pharmacist. Meanwhile, 2.6% of the participants were aware of HSPs, 
while 9.2% of the participants had only heard of HSPs. Awareness of HSPs was 
higher among men and younger individuals than among women and older generations. 
In addition, only 7.2% of the participants were aware of the location of the HSP 
in their area of residence. At the time at which this survey was conducted, only 
3.5% of the participants were using HSP services, and half of them did not 
perceive the merits of using these services. However, 44.4% of the participants 
wished to avail themselves of HSP services in the future, and this desire 
increased with age. Half of the participants wished to use services that were 
associated with drugs, and the need for other services, such as consultations on 
diet/nutrition or health foods, was low. In conclusion, there was low awareness 
about HSPs among the survey participants. However, from our findings, we 
gathered that if individuals are aware of HSPs, they will wish to use HSP 
services. To improve healthy life expectancy, it is important to increase 
awareness about HSPs and their number.

DOI: 10.3390/nu14010165
PMCID: PMC8746723
PMID: 35011040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.


452. Nutrients. 2021 Dec 31;14(1):190. doi: 10.3390/nu14010190.

Nutrition, Diet and Healthy Aging.

Giacomello E(1), Toniolo L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Surgery and Health Sciences, University of Trieste, 
34149 Trieste, Italy.
(2)Laboratory of Muscle Biophysics, Department of Biomedical Sciences, 
University of Padova, 35131 Padova, Italy.

The current increase in life expectancy is confirmed by data from different 
sources (i.e.,The World Population Prospects 2019 issued by the United Nations; 
https://population.un.org/wpp/ (accessed on 20 December 2021)), which predict 
that, in the near future, individ-uals who are over 65 and over 80 will be the 
fastest-growing portion of the population [...].

DOI: 10.3390/nu14010190
PMCID: PMC8746852
PMID: 35011068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


453. Nutrients. 2022 Jan 3;14(1):208. doi: 10.3390/nu14010208.

Effect of Standardized Hydrangea serrata (Thunb.) Ser. Leaves Extract on Body 
Weight and Body Fat Reduction in Overweight or Obese Humans: A Randomized 
Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Study.

Han HS(1)(2), Chung KS(1), Shin YK(3), Yu JS(3), Kang SH(4), Lee SH(3), Lee 
KT(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biochemistry, College of Pharmacy, Kyung Hee 
University, Seoul 02447, Korea.
(2)Department of Life and Nanopharmaceutical Sciences, Graduate School, Kyung 
Hee University, Seoul 02447, Korea.
(3)Department of New Material Development, COSMAXBIO, Seongnam 13486, Korea.
(4)Clinical Research Center of H PLUS Yangji Hospital, Sillim-dong, Gwanak-gu, 
Seoul 08779, Korea.

Obesity is a major health problem that is caused by body fat accumulation and 
that can lead to metabolic diseases. Owing to several side effects of the 
currently used antiobesity drugs, natural plants have risen as safe and 
potential candidates to alleviate obesity. We have previously reported the 
antiobesity effect of Hydrangea serrata (Thunb.) Ser. leaves extract (WHS) and 
its underlying mechanisms. As an extension of our preclinical studies, this 
study aimed to investigate the effect of WHS on body weight and body fat 
reduction in overweight or obese humans. A total of 93 healthy overweight or 
obese males and females, aged 19-65 years, with body mass indexes (BMIs) ≥ 25 
and <32 kg/m2, were recruited and received either an oral administration of 600 
mg of WHS, or placebo tablets for 12 weeks. Daily supplementation with WHS 
decreased body weights, body fat masses, and BMIs compared with the 
placebo-treated group. The hip circumferences, visceral fat areas, abdominal fat 
areas, and visceral-to-subcutaneous ratios decreased after WHS supplementation. 
No significant side effects were observed during or after the 12 weeks of WHS 
intake. In conclusion, WHS, which has beneficial effects on body weight and body 
fat reduction, could be a promising antiobesity supplement that does not produce 
any side effects.

DOI: 10.3390/nu14010208
PMCID: PMC8747274
PMID: 35011083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


454. Nutrients. 2022 Jan 5;14(1):224. doi: 10.3390/nu14010224.

Iron Status, Anemia, and Iron Interventions and Their Associations with 
Cognitive and Academic Performance in Adolescents: A Systematic Review.

Samson KLI(1)(2), Fischer JAJ(1)(2), Roche ML(3).

Author information:
(1)Food, Nutrition, and Health, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC 
V6T 1Z4, Canada.
(2)Healthy Starts, British Columbia Children's Hospital Research Institute, 
Vancouver, BC V5Z 4H4, Canada.
(3)Nutrition International, Ottawa, ON K2P 2K3, Canada.

In adolescents, iron-deficiency anemia is the leading cause of 
disability-adjusted life years lost. The World Health Organization recommends 
delivering iron supplementation through school-based platforms, requiring 
partnerships with the education sector. This anemia-reduction intervention is 
valued for the perceived benefits of improved learning and school performance. 
This article aims to systematically review the available evidence on the 
relationship between iron status and anemia and impacts of iron interventions on 
cognitive and academic performance in adolescents. Fifty studies were included: 
n = 26 cross-sectional and n = 24 iron-containing interventions. Our review 
suggests that iron status and anemia may be associated with academic performance 
in some contexts and that iron supplementation during adolescence may improve 
school performance, attention, and concentration. However, nearly all 
supplementation trials were judged to have moderate or high risk of bias. We did 
not find evidence suggesting that iron status and anemia influenced or were 
associated with attention, intelligence, nor memory in adolescents. Further, 
iron supplementation did not improve memory and recall or intelligence. Overall, 
more high-quality research is needed to guide programmers and policy makers to 
understand the relationships between anemia and educational performance and the 
potential impacts of iron interventions, which effectively reduce anemia, on 
adolescents' learning and school performance.

DOI: 10.3390/nu14010224
PMCID: PMC8746955
PMID: 35011099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


455. Cells. 2021 Dec 29;11(1):97. doi: 10.3390/cells11010097.

DSTYK Enhances Chemoresistance in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer Cells.

Ogbu SC(1), Rojas S(1), Weaver J(1), Musich PR(1), Zhang J(2), Yao ZQ(2), Jiang 
Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, J. H. Quillen College of Medicine, East 
Tennessee State University, Johnson City, TN 37614, USA.
(2)Division of Infectious, Inflammatory and Immunologic Diseases, Department of 
Internal Medicine, Quillen College of Medicine, ETSU, Johnson City, TN 37614, 
USA.

Breast cancer, as the most prevalent cancer in women, is responsible for more 
than 15% of new cancer cases and about 6.9% of all cancer-related death in the 
US. A major cause of therapeutic failure in breast cancer is the development of 
resistance to chemotherapy, especially for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). 
Therefore, how to overcome chemoresistance is the major challenge to improve the 
life expectancy of breast cancer patients. Our studies demonstrate that TNBC 
cells surviving the chronic treatment of chemotherapeutic drugs show 
significantly higher expression of the dual serine/threonine and tyrosine 
protein kinase (DSTYK) than non-treated parental cells. In our in vitro cellular 
models, DSTYK knockout via the CRISPR/Cas9-mediated technique results in 
apoptotic cell death of chemoresistant cells upon drug treatment. Moreover, 
DSTYK knockout promotes chemotherapeutic drug-induced tumor cell death in an 
orthotopic mouse model. These findings suggest that DSTYK exerts an important 
and previously unknown role in promoting chemoresistance. Our studies provide 
fundamental insight into the role of DSTYK in chemoresistance in TNBC cells and 
lay the foundation for the development of new strategies targeting DSTYK for 
improving TNBC therapy.

DOI: 10.3390/cells11010097
PMCID: PMC8750327
PMID: 35011659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


456. J Clin Med. 2021 Dec 22;11(1):26. doi: 10.3390/jcm11010026.

Long-Term Survival and Causes of Death in Patients below the Age of 60 with 
Traumatic Spinal Cord Injury in Germany.

Thietje R(1), Kowald B(1), Böthig R(1), Schulz AP(1)(2), Northmann M(1), Rau 
Y(3), Hirschfeld S(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Spinal Injuries, BG Klinikum Hamburg, 21033 Hamburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Biomechanics and orthopedic Research, University Lübeck, 23538 
Luebeck, Germany.
(3)Medical Faculty, University of Lübeck, 23538 Lübeck, Germany.

To study the mortality, cause and risk indicators of death in German patients 
with traumatic spinal cord injury, patients with traumatic spinal cord injury 
admitted to Berufsgenossenschaftliches Trauma Hospital Hamburg between 1 January 
1997 and 31 December 2018, aged between 16 and 60 with a minimal survival of one 
year after injury, were included. Further criteria were the absence of 
life-limiting comorbidities at the time of injury. 223 deceased patients with 
traumatic spinal cord injury were identified, investigated on and partly 
compared to the surviving subjects. We aimed to discover specific complications 
that were related to Spinal Cord Injury and responsible for a possibly limited 
life expectancy. Data collection was performed during in- and outpatient 
treatment. A statistical analysis was performed to compare groups. The 
post-injury life expectancy was 25.0 years with a significant correlation 
regarding the level of lesion and severity of injury. The leading causes of 
death were cardiovascular diseases and pneumonia. Bladder cancer was the most 
common fatal malignant tumor. The life expectancy of patients suffering from 
traumatic spinal cord injury is limited. The longer a patient survives after 
injury and the lower the level of lesion, the more likely an age-related cause 
of death becomes. Bladder cancer is significantly more frequent when compared to 
the overall distribution of tumor diseases in Germany.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11010026
PMCID: PMC8745560
PMID: 35011766

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


457. J Clin Med. 2021 Dec 25;11(1):102. doi: 10.3390/jcm11010102.

Hearing Loss in Beta-Thalassemia: Systematic Review.

Tartaglione I(1), Carfora R(1), Brotto D(2), Barillari MR(3), Costa G(3), 
Perrotta S(1), Manara R(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Specialized Surgery for Women and Children, 
Università degli Studi della Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", 80131 Napoli, Italy.
(2)Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Section, Department of Neurosciences, 
University of Padova, 35122 Padova, Italy.
(3)Division of Phoniatrics and Audiology, Department of Mental and Physical 
Health and Preventive Medicine, University of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", 80138 
Naples, Italy.
(4)Neuroradiology, Department of Neuroscience, University of Padova, 35128 
Padova, Italy.

In the last half century, the life expectancy of beta-thalassemia patients has 
strikingly increased mostly due to regular blood transfusions and chelation 
treatments. The improved survival, however, has allowed for the emergence of 
comorbidities, such as hearing loss, with a non-negligible impact on the 
patients' quality of life. This thorough review analyzes the acquired knowledge 
regarding hearing impairment in this hereditary hemoglobinopathy, aiming at 
defining its prevalence, features, course, and possible disease- or 
treatment-related pathogenic factors. Following PRISMA criteria, we retrieved 60 
studies published between 1979 and 2021. Diagnostic tools and criteria, forms of 
hearing impairment, correlations with beta-thalassemia phenotypes, age and sex, 
chelation treatment and laboratory findings including iron overload, were 
carefully searched, analyzed and summarized. In spite of the relatively high 
number of studies in the last 40 years, our knowledge is rather limited, and 
large prospective studies with homogeneous diagnostic tools and criteria are 
required to define all the aforementioned issues. According to the literature, 
the overall prevalence rate of hearing impairment is 32.3%; age, sex, and 
laboratory findings do not seem to correlate with hearing deficits, while the 
weak relationship with clinical phenotype and chelation treatment seems to 
highlight the presence of further yet to be identified pathogenic factors.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11010102
PMCID: PMC8745164
PMID: 35011846

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


458. Polymers (Basel). 2021 Dec 30;14(1):126. doi: 10.3390/polym14010126.

Preparation and Characterization of an Injectable and Photo-Responsive Chitosan 
Methacrylate/Graphene Oxide Hydrogel: Potential Applications in Bone Tissue 
Adhesion and Repair.

Céspedes-Valenzuela DN(1), Sánchez-Rentería S(1), Cifuentes J(1), Gantiva-Diaz 
M(1)(2), Serna JA(1), Reyes LH(3), Ostos C(4), Cifuentes-De la Portilla C(2), 
Muñoz-Camargo C(1), Cruz JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Investigación en Nanobiomateriales, Ingeniería Celular y 
Bioimpresión (GINIB), Department of Biomedical Engineering, Universidad de los 
Andes, Bogota 111711, Colombia.
(2)Grupo de Investigación en Biomecánica (IBIOMECH), Department of Biomedical 
Engineering, Universidad de los Andes, Bogota 111711, Colombia.
(3)Department of Chemical and Food Engineering, School of Engineering, 
Universidad de Los Andes, Carrera 1 No. 18A-12, Bogota 111711, Colombia.
(4)Grupo CATALAD, Instituto de Química, Universidad de Antioquia, Medellin 
050010, Colombia.

As life expectancy continues to increase, the inevitable weakening and rupture 
of bone tissue have grown as concerns in the medical community, thus leading to 
the need for adhesive materials suitable for bone repair applications. However, 
current commercially available adhesives face certain drawbacks that prevent 
proper tissue repair, such as low biocompatibility, poor adhesion to wet 
surfaces, and the need for high polymerization temperatures. This work aims to 
develop an injectable and photo-responsive chitosan methacrylate/graphene oxide 
(ChiMA/GO) adhesive nanocomposite hydrogel of high biocompatibility that is easy 
to apply by simple extrusion and that offers the possibility for in situ polymer 
and physiological temperatures. The nanocomposite was thoroughly characterized 
spectroscopically, microscopically, rheologically, thermally, and through 
mechanical, textural, and biological assays to fully evaluate its correct 
synthesis and functionalization and its performance under physiological 
conditions that mimic those observed in vivo. In addition, a finite element 
analysis (FEA) simulation was used to evaluate its performance in femur 
fractures. Results suggest the material's potential as a bioadhesive, as it can 
polymerize at room temperature, shows superior stability in physiological media, 
and is capable of withstanding loads from body weight and movement. Moreover, 
the material showed remarkable biocompatibility as evidenced by low hemolytic 
and intermediate platelet aggregation tendencies, and high cytocompatibility 
when in contact with osteoblasts. The comprehensive studies presented here 
strongly suggest that the developed hydrogels are promising alternatives to 
conventional bone adhesives that might be further tested in vivo in the near 
future.

DOI: 10.3390/polym14010126
PMCID: PMC8747203
PMID: 35012148

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


459. BMC Med Educ. 2022 Jan 10;22(1):29. doi: 10.1186/s12909-021-03095-8.

Health care providers' awareness on medical management of children with autism 
spectrum disorder: cross-sectional study in Russia.

Mukhamedshina YO(1)(2), Fayzullina RA(3), Nigmatullina IA(4), Rutland CS(5), 
Vasina VV(4).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Center for Precision and Regenerative Medicine, Kazan 
Federal University, Kremlevskaya St 18, Kazan, 420008, Tatarstan, Russia. 
yana.k-z-n@mail.ru.
(2)Department of Histology, Cytology and Embryology, Kazan State Medical 
University, Kazan, Russia. yana.k-z-n@mail.ru.
(3)Department of Propaedeutics of Pediatric Diseases and Faculty Pediatrics, 
Kazan State Medical University, Kazan, Russia.
(4)Department of Psychology and Pedagogy of Special Education, Kazan (Volga 
region) Federal University, Kazan, Russia.
(5)School of Veterinary Medicine and Science, University of Nottingham, 
Nottingham, UK.

BACKGROUND: Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex developmental range of 
conditions that involves difficulties with social interaction and 
restricted/repetitive behaviors. Unfortunately, health care providers often 
experience difficulties in diagnosis and management of individuals with ASD, and 
may have no knowledge about possible ways to overcome barriers in ASD patient 
interactions in healthcare settings. At the same time, the provision of 
appropriate medical services can have positive effects on habilitative progress, 
functional outcome, life expectancy and quality of life for individuals with 
ASD.
METHODS: This online survey research study evaluated the awareness and 
experience of students/residents (n = 247) and physicians (n = 100) in the 
medical management of children with ASD. It also gathered the views and 
experiences of caregivers to children with ASD (n = 158), all based in Russia.
RESULTS: We have established that the Russian medical community has limited ASD 
knowledge among providers, and have suggested possible reasons for this. Based 
on results from online surveys completed by students/residents, non-psychiatric 
physicians, and caregivers of children diagnosed with ASD, the main problems 
pertaining to medical management of individuals with ASD were identified. 
Possible problem solving solutions within medical practice were proposed.
CONCLUSIONS: The results from this study should be considered when implementing 
measures to improve healthcare practices, and when developing models for 
effective medical management, due to start not only in Russia but also in a 
number of other countries.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12909-021-03095-8
PMCID: PMC8751116
PMID: 35012536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


460. Popul Health Metr. 2022 Jan 10;20(1):3. doi: 10.1186/s12963-021-00277-w.

Adapting and validating the log quadratic model to derive under-five age- and 
cause-specific mortality (U5ACSM): a preliminary analysis.

Perin J(1), Chu Y(2), Villavicencio F(2), Schumacher A(3), McCormick T(4), 
Guillot M(5), Liu L(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, USA. 
jperin@jhu.edu.
(2)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle, USA.
(4)Departments of Statistics and Sociology, University of Washington, Seattle, 
USA.
(5)Department of Sociology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.
(6)Department of Population, Family, and Reproductive Health, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, USA.

Erratum in
    Popul Health Metr. 2022 Jun 28;20(1):15.

BACKGROUND: The mortality pattern from birth to age five is known to vary by 
underlying cause of mortality, which has been documented in multiple instances. 
Many countries without high functioning vital registration systems could benefit 
from estimates of age- and cause-specific mortality to inform health 
programming, however, to date the causes of under-five death have only been 
described for broad age categories such as for neonates (0-27 days), infants 
(0-11 months), and children age 12-59 months.
METHODS: We adapt the log quadratic model to mortality patterns for children 
under five to all-cause child mortality and then to age- and cause-specific 
mortality (U5ACSM). We apply these methods to empirical sample registration 
system mortality data in China from 1996 to 2015. Based on these empirical data, 
we simulate probabilities of mortality in the case when the true relationships 
between age and mortality by cause are known.
RESULTS: We estimate U5ACSM within 0.1-0.7 deaths per 1000 livebirths in hold 
out strata for life tables constructed from the China sample registration 
system, representing considerable improvement compared to an error of 1.2 per 
1000 livebirths using a standard approach. This improved prediction error for 
U5ACSM is consistently demonstrated for all-cause as well as pneumonia- and 
injury-specific mortality. We also consistently identified cause-specific 
mortality patterns in simulated mortality scenarios.
CONCLUSION: The log quadratic model is a significant improvement over the 
standard approach for deriving U5ACSM based on both simulation and empirical 
results.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12963-021-00277-w
PMCID: PMC8744238
PMID: 35012587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


461. Urol Oncol. 2022 Mar;40(3):72-78. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2021.12.001. Epub
2022  Jan 7.

Current strategies to improve erectile function in patients undergoing radical 
prostatectomy - preoperative scenario.

Pedraza AM(1), Pandav K(1), Menon M(1), Khera M(2), Wagaskar V(1), Dovey Z(1), 
Mohamed N(1), Parekh S(1), Tewari AK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York 
City, NY.
(2)Scott Department of Urology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX.
(3)Department of Urology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York 
City, NY. Electronic address: ash.tewari@mountsinai.org.

Radical prostatectomy (RP) is a common procedure for localized and locally 
advanced prostate cancer (PCa). Despite advances in the technique with the 
introduction of robotic surgery, erectile dysfunction (ED) remains a major 
drawback. Therefore, a personalized evaluation that considers the patient's 
expectations and cultural background, baseline erectile function (EF), health 
status, and tumoral extension is important to optimize outcomes. Since EF has a 
tremendous impact on the quality of life of the patient and the intimate 
partner, it is timely to review multidisciplinary approaches to be implemented 
in the preoperative setting. Here we propose various strategies divided into two 
main categories, namely, comprehensive preoperative planning and prehabilitation 
(Figure 1.).

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2021.12.001
PMID: 35012821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Sci Rep. 2022 Jan 10;12(1):306. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-03860-1.

Brachial artery transposition versus catheters as tertiary vascular access for 
maintenance hemodialysis: a single-center retrospective study.

Soma Y(1), Murakami M(2), Nakatani E(3)(4), Sato Y(3)(4), Tanaka S(1), Mori 
K(1)(4), Sugawara A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Shizuoka General Hospital, 4-27-1 Kitaando, Aoi-ku, 
Shizuoka, 420-8527, Japan.
(2)Department of Nephrology, Shizuoka General Hospital, 4-27-1 Kitaando, Aoi-ku, 
Shizuoka, 420-8527, Japan. mmurakami77207@gmail.com.
(3)Division of Clinical Biostatistics, Research Support Center, Shizuoka General 
Hospital, Shizuoka, 420-8527, Japan.
(4)Graduate School of Public Health, Shizuoka Graduate University of Public 
Health, 4-27-2 Kitaando, Aoi-ku, Shizuoka, 420-0881, Japan.

Some hemodialysis patients are not suitable for creation of an arteriovenous 
fistula (AVF) or arteriovenous graft (AVG). However, they can receive a tunneled 
cuffed central venous catheter (tcCVC), but this carries risks of infection and 
mortality. We aimed to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of brachial artery 
transposition (BAT) versus those of tcCVC. This retrospective study evaluated 
hemodialysis patients who underwent BAT or tcCVC placement because of severe 
heart failure, hand ischemia, central venous stenosis or occlusion, inadequate 
vessels for creating standard arteriovenous access, or limited life expectancy. 
The primary outcome was whole access circuit patency. Thirty-eight patients who 
underwent BAT and 25 who underwent tcCVC placement were included. One-year 
patency rates for the whole access circuit were 84.6% and 44.9% in the BAT and 
tcCVC groups, respectively. The BAT group was more likely to maintain patency 
(unadjusted hazard ratio: 0.17, 95% confidence interval: 0.05-0.60, p = 0.006). 
The two groups did not have significantly different overall survival (log-rank 
p = 0.146), although severe complications were less common in the BAT group (3% 
vs. 28%, p = 0.005). Relative to tcCVC placement, BAT is safe and effective with 
acceptable patency in hemodialysis patients not suitable for AVF or AVG 
creation.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-03860-1
PMCID: PMC8748867
PMID: 35013367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


463. Sci Rep. 2022 Jan 10;12(1):345. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-03551-x.

Sex differences in the 10-year survival of patients undergoing maintenance 
hemodialysis in the Q-Cohort Study.

Tsujikawa H(1), Yamada S(1), Hiyamuta H(1), Taniguchi M(2), Tsuruya K(3), Torisu 
K(1)(4), Nakano T(5), Kitazono T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Clinical Science, Graduate School of Medical 
Sciences, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka, 812-8582, 
Japan.
(2)Fukuoka Renal Clinic, Fukuoka, Japan.
(3)Department of Nephrology, Nara Medical University, Nara, Japan.
(4)Department of Integrated Therapy for Chronic Kidney Disease, Graduate School 
of Medical Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(5)Department of Medicine and Clinical Science, Graduate School of Medical 
Sciences, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka, 812-8582, 
Japan. nakano.toshiaki.455@m.kyushu-u.ac.jp.

Women have a longer life expectancy than men in the general population. However, 
it has remained unclear whether this advantage is maintained in patients 
undergoing maintenance hemodialysis. The aim of this study was to compare the 
risk of mortality, especially infection-related mortality, between male and 
female hemodialysis patients. A total of 3065 Japanese hemodialysis patients 
aged ≥ 18 years old were followed up for 10 years. The primary outcomes were 
all-cause and infection-related mortality. The associations between sex and 
these outcomes were examined using Cox proportional hazards models. During the 
median follow-up of 8.8 years, 1498 patients died of any cause, 387 of whom died 
of infection. Compared with men, the multivariable-adjusted hazard ratios (95% 
confidence interval) for all-cause and infection-related mortality in women were 
0.51 (0.45-0.58, P < 0.05) and 0.36 (0.27-0.47, P < 0.05), respectively. These 
findings remained significant even when propensity score-matching or inverse 
probability of treatment weighting adjustment methods were employed. 
Furthermore, even when the non-infection-related mortality was considered a 
competing risk, the infection-related mortality rate in women was still 
significantly lower than that in men. Regarding all-cause and infection-related 
deaths, women have a survival advantage compared with men among Japanese 
patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-03551-x
PMCID: PMC8748968
PMID: 35013378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


464. Sci Rep. 2022 Jan 10;12(1):423. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-04232-5.

Effect of storage conditions on the shelf-life extension of fungus-colonized 
substrates based on Metarhizium anisopliae using modified atmosphere packaging.

Jeong SG(1), Kim HM(1), Kim J(2), Kim JS(3)(4), Park HW(5).

