University, Xi'an, 710004, Shaanxi, China.
(4)Clinical Medicine and Cancer Research Center of Shaanxi Province, Xi'an, 
710061, Shaanxi, China.
(5)Department of Surgical Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an 
Jiaotong University, Xi'an, 710061, Shaanxi, China. hao.zhang@mail.xjtu.edu.cn.
(6)Clinical Medicine and Cancer Research Center of Shaanxi Province, Xi'an, 
710061, Shaanxi, China. hao.zhang@mail.xjtu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Peptic ulcer disease (PUD) is a common digestive disorder, of which 
the prevalence decreased in the past few decades. However, the decreasing 
tendency has plateaued in recent years due to changes in risk factors associated 
with the etiology of PUD, such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug use. In 
this study, we investigated the epidemiological and the sociodemographic 
characteristics of PUD in 204 countries and territories from 1990 to 2019 based 
on data from the Global Burden of Disease, Injuries and Risk Factors (GBD) 
Study.
METHODS: Demographic characteristics and annual prevalence, incidence, 
mortality, disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) and age-standardized death 
rate (ASR) data associated with PUD were obtained and analyzed. According to the 
sociodemographic index (SDI), the numbers of patients, ASRs, estimated annual 
percentage changes and geographical distributions were assessed with a 
generalized linear model and presented in world maps. All evaluations of numbers 
and rates were calculated per 100,000 population with 95% uncertainty intervals 
(UIs).
RESULTS: In 2019, the global prevalence of PUD was approximately 8.09 [95% UI 
6.79-9.58] million, representing a 25.82% increase from 1990. The 
age-standardized prevalence rate was 99.40 (83.86-117.55) per 100,000 population 
in 2019, representing a decrease of 143.37 (120.54-170.25) per 100,000 
population from 1990. The age-standardized DALY rate in 2019 was decreased by 
60.64% [74.40 (68.96-81.95) per 100,000 population] compared to that in 1990. In 
both sexes, the numbers and ASRs of the prevalence, incidence, deaths and DALYs 
were higher in males than in females over 29 years. Regionally, South Asia had 
the highest age-standardized prevalence rate [156.62 (130.58-187.05) per 100,000 
population] in 2019. A low age-standardized death rate was found in the 
high-income super-region. Among nations, Kiribati had the highest 
age-standardized prevalence rate [330.32 (286.98-379.81) per 100,000 
population]. Regarding socioeconomic status, positive associations between the 
age-standardized prevalence, incidence, death rate, DALYs and SDI were observed 
globally in 2019.
CONCLUSIONS: Morbidity and mortality due to PUD decreased significantly from 
1990 to 2019, while a gradual upward inclination has been observed in recent 
15 years, which might be associated with changes in risk factors for PUD. 
Attention and efforts by healthcare administrators and society are needed for 
PUD prevention and control.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12876-022-02130-2
PMCID: PMC8832644
PMID: 35144540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interests.


882. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2022 Apr;18(4):243-258. doi: 10.1038/s41574-021-00626-7.
 Epub 2022 Feb 10.

Mitochondrial and metabolic dysfunction in ageing and age-related diseases.

Amorim JA(1)(2)(3), Coppotelli G(1)(4), Rolo AP(2)(5), Palmeira CM(2)(5), Ross 
JM(1)(4), Sinclair DA(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Blavatnik Institute, Paul F. Glenn Center for the 
Biology of Aging, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Center for Neurosciences and Cell Biology of the University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal.
(3)IIIUC, Institute of Interdisciplinary Research, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal.
(4)George and Anne Ryan Institute for Neuroscience, College of Pharmacy, 
Department of Biomedical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Rhode 
Island, Kingston, RI, USA.
(5)Department of Life Sciences of the University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(6)Department of Genetics, Blavatnik Institute, Paul F. Glenn Center for the 
Biology of Aging, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. 
david_sinclair@hms.harvard.edu.

Organismal ageing is accompanied by progressive loss of cellular function and 
systemic deterioration of multiple tissues, leading to impaired function and 
increased vulnerability to death. Mitochondria have become recognized not merely 
as being energy suppliers but also as having an essential role in the 
development of diseases associated with ageing, such as neurodegenerative and 
cardiovascular diseases. A growing body of evidence suggests that ageing and 
age-related diseases are tightly related to an energy supply and demand 
imbalance, which might be alleviated by a variety of interventions, including 
physical activity and calorie restriction, as well as naturally occurring 
molecules targeting conserved longevity pathways. Here, we review key historical 
advances and progress from the past few years in our understanding of the role 
of mitochondria in ageing and age-related metabolic diseases. We also highlight 
emerging scientific innovations using mitochondria-targeted therapeutic 
approaches.

© 2022. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41574-021-00626-7
PMCID: PMC9059418
PMID: 35145250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests D.A.S. is a founder, equity 
owner, advisor to, director of, board member of, consultant to, investor in 
and/or inventor on patents licensed to Revere Biosensors, UpRNA, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Wellomics, DaVinci Logic, InsideTracker (Segterra), Caudalie, 
Animal Biosciences, Longwood Fund, Catalio Capital Management, Frontier 
Acquisition Corporation, AFAR (American Federation for Aging Research), Life 
Extension Advocacy Foundation (LEAF), Cohbar, Galilei, EMD Millipore, Zymo 
Research, Immetas, Bayer Crop Science, EdenRoc Sciences (and affiliates Arc-Bio, 
Dovetail Genomics, Claret Bioscience, MetroBiotech, Astrea, Liberty Biosecurity 
and Delavie), Life Biosciences, Alterity, ATAI Life Sciences, Levels Health, 
Tally (aka Longevity Sciences) and Bold Capital. D.A.S. is an inventor on a 
patent application filed by Mayo Clinic and Harvard Medical School that has been 
licensed to Elysium Health. The other authors declare no competing interests.


883. Front Physiol. 2022 Jan 25;12:752455. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2021.752455. 
eCollection 2021.

In Hamstring Muscles of Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis an Increased 
Ultrasound Shear Modulus Indicates a Permanently Elevated Muscle Tonus.

Li F(1), Wang ZY(1), Zhang ZJ(1), Shen SH(1), Guo JY(1), Guo YX(1), Feng YR(2), 
Zhang L(2), Wen YB(1), Zhang YF(1), Fan YM(1), Fan MM(1).

Author information:
(1)Luoyang Orthopedic Hospital of Henan Province (Orthopedic Hospital of Henan 
Province), Luoyang, China.
(2)New Zealand College of Chinese Medicine, Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: Some patients with knee osteoarthritis (KOA) show pain, stiffness 
and limited flexion and extension at the back of the knee, leading to 
dysfunction and affecting life. This may be related to changes in the 
biomechanical properties of skeletal muscles. Shear wave elastography (SWE) can 
detect these changes by measuring muscle shear modulus.
AIMS: To investigate hamstring muscle shear modulus of healthy people and 
patients was studied using SWE method, and the correlation analysis between the 
Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) score of 
patients' subjective feeling and shear modulus of objective quantification was 
conducted.
METHODS: The hamstring shear modulus was measured by SWE in 50 patients and 50 
healthy individuals. Pearson correlation coefficient was used to evaluate the 
correlation between hamstring stiffness and shear modulus in patients.
RESULTS: The hamstring shear modulus were significantly higher in the KOA group 
[the semimembranosus (SM) 15.23 ± 7.23, the semitendinosus (ST) 15.94 ± 5.40, 
the biceps femoris long tendinitis (BFL) 14.21 ± 6.55] than in the control group 
(the SM 10.95 ± 2.41, the ST 11.25 ± 2.23, the BFL 9.98 ± 2.81) (p = 0.000, p = 
0.000, p = 0.001). The hamstring shear modulus in the KOA group was moderately 
positively correlated with pain, shear modulus, and physical function score.
CONCLUSION: Preliminary results show that the shear modulus of the hamstring of 
KOA patients is higher than that of healthy people, the WOMAC score and the 
shear modulus of patients are moderately correlated. These preliminary results 
show that ultrasonic shear wave elastography measurement of shear modulus may be 
enough to sensitive, can detect these effects, more targeted in order to assist 
the doctor's diagnosis and treatment.

Copyright © 2022 Li, Wang, Zhang, Shen, Guo, Guo, Feng, Zhang, Wen, Zhang, Fan 
and Fan.

DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2021.752455
PMCID: PMC8822153
PMID: 35145421

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


884. Cureus. 2022 Jan 4;14(1):e20921. doi: 10.7759/cureus.20921. eCollection 2022
 Jan.

Outcomes of Arteriovenous Fistula Creation in Patients Undergoing Hemodialysis: 
An Indian Experience.

Gupta A(1), Kumar V(2), Peswani AR(1), Suresh A(1).

Author information:
(1)Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Topiwala National Medical College and 
B.Y.L. Nair Charitable Hospital, Mumbai, IND.
(2)Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Tata Memorial Hospital, Homi Bhabha 
National Institute, Mumbai, IND.

Introduction Creating an arteriovenous fistula (AVF) to provide a patent and 
long-term vascular access (VA) for hemodialysis (HD) still remains a challenge. 
A methodical approach to choosing the appropriate HD access in accordance with 
patients' end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) life plan will help them achieve their 
goals safely. This study summarizes the impact of various factors on the AVF 
outcomes in an Indian population as well as the necessary considerations before 
choosing the site of AVF creation. Materials and methods This study involved a 
single-center, retrospective evaluation of all patients who had undergone 
arteriovenous (AV) access creation for maintenance HD from October 2018 to 
August 2019 at a center in India. Results In our study of 216 cases, the average 
age at presentation was 43.9 years and the difference in age between the 
successful and unsuccessful group was not significant. The successful outcomes 
in males were significantly higher than those in females (p=0.005). The mean 
venous diameter in the successful group was significantly larger than that in 
the unsuccessful group. The distal arterial and vein diameter was higher in both 
males and females of the laborer group compared to the clerical group; however, 
the outcomes were comparable. The overall complication rate was 22.22%. We had 
primary patency rates of 83% at the end of one year with a primary failure rate 
of 8.80%. Conclusion Vein diameter was the most important predictive factor for 
a successful outcome in our study. Factors like age and life expectancy, gender, 
comorbidities, occupation, and type of anastomosis may not be individually 
predictive of outcomes but need to be considered before choosing the appropriate 
site of access creation according to the life plan of the patient. This will 
reduce morbidity associated with an additional procedure and facilitate the 
initiation of HD as early as possible. Occupation can be considered as a 
surrogate for preoperative forearm exercises with the increased caliber of 
vessels found in people performing heavy/manual labor favoring a more distal AVF 
creation.

Copyright © 2022, Gupta et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.20921
PMCID: PMC8811729
PMID: 35145814

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


885. Front Vet Sci. 2022 Jan 25;8:819681. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2021.819681.
eCollection  2021.

CRISPR/Cas12a Based Rapid Molecular Detection of Acute Hepatopancreatic Necrosis 
Disease in Shrimp.

Li C(1), Lin N(2), Feng Z(1), Lin M(1), Guan B(1), Chen K(1), Liang W(1), Wang 
Q(2), Li M(2), You Y(2), Chen Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Fujian Key Laboratory of Innate Immune Biology, Biomedical Research Center of 
South China, College of Life Science, Fujian Normal University, Fuzhou, China.
(2)Fujian Provincial Fisheries Technology Extension Center, Fuzhou, China.

Acute hepatopancreatic necrosis disease (AHPND), formerly called early mortality 
syndrome (EMS), causes high mortality in cultured penaeid shrimp, particularly 
Penaeus vannamei and Penaeus monodon. AHPND is mainly caused by Vibrio species 
carrying the pVA1 plasmid encoding the virulence genes Photorhabdus 
insect-related (pir) pir VP A and pir VP B. We developed a new molecular assay 
that combines recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA) and CRISPR/Cas12a 
technology (RPA-CRISPR/Cas12a) to detect pir VP A and pir VP B, with a 
fluorescent signal result. The fluorescence RPA-CRISPR/Cas12a assay had a 
detection limit of 20 copies/μL for pir VP A and pir VP B. To improve usability 
and visualize RPA-CRISPR/Cas12a assay results, a lateral flow strip readout was 
added. With the lateral flow strip, the RPA-CRISPR/Cas12a assay had a lower 
limit of detection of 200 copies/μL (0.3 fmol/L). The lateral flow assay can be 
completed in 2 h and showed no cross-reactivity with pathogens causing other 
shrimp diseases. In a field test of 60 shrimp samples, the RPA-CRISPR/Cas12a 
lateral flow assay showed 92.5% positive predictive agreement and 100% negative 
predictive agreement. As the new RPA-CRISPR/Cas12a assay is rapid, specific, and 
does not require complicated experimental equipment, it may have important field 
applications for detecting AHPND in farmed shrimp.

Copyright © 2022 Li, Lin, Feng, Lin, Guan, Chen, Liang, Wang, Li, You and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2021.819681
PMCID: PMC8821903
PMID: 35146019

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


886. J Health Monit. 2019 Mar 14;4(1):38-45. doi: 10.25646/5873. eCollection 2019
 Mar.

Developments in life expectancy in Germany. Current trends.

Nowossadeck E(1), von der Lippe E(1), Lampert T(1).

Author information:
(1)Robert Koch Institute, Berlin Department of Epidemiology and Health 
Monitoring.

Since the beginning of the 1990s, life expectancy in Germany has increased by 
4.2 years among women (to 83.2 years), and by 5.9 years among men (to 78.4 
years). This rise is related to the increasing convergence of life expectancy in 
Germany's new and old federal states. Recently, life expectancy among women in 
the new federal states has even risen slightly above the level found in the old 
federal states. In addition, differences between socioeconomic groups continue 
to be observed in Germany. Women in the highest income group have a 4.4-year 
longer life expectancy than women in the lowest income group. Similarly, an 
8.6-year difference exists between men in the highest income group and men in 
the lowest income group. Influenza waves can adversely affect the development of 
life expectancy in certain calendar years. In comparison to other European 
countries, Germany has a mid-range life expectancy: the current difference 
between life expectancy in Germany and Switzerland (the European country with 
the highest life expectancy) is 2.7 years.

© Robert Koch Institute. All rights reserved unless explicitly granted.

DOI: 10.25646/5873
PMCID: PMC8822249
PMID: 35146242

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The authors declared no 
conflicts of interest.


887. J Health Monit. 2021 Jun 16;6(2):43-50. doi: 10.25646/8331. eCollection 2021
 Jun.

Healthy life years among people with and without diabetes in Germany.

Baumert J(1), Heidemann C(1), Reitzle L(1), Schmidt C(1).

Author information:
(1)Robert Koch Institute, Berlin, Department of Epidemiology and Health 
Monitoring.

In addition to life expectancy, the length of time a person can expect to remain 
free of health-related functional impairments is becoming increasingly important 
both for the individuals concerned and for society at large. The indicator 
healthy life years used for this purpose is a key figure for mapping mortality 
and morbidity. Diabetes is one of the most common chronic diseases and can be 
associated with health-related functional impairments. In 2014, women and men 
with diabetes could expect to have significantly fewer healthy life years than 
people without diabetes; this particularly applies to younger and middle-aged 
groups. Among 30- to 34-year-olds, for example, women and men with diabetes 
could expect eleven and twelve fewer healthy life years respectively than people 
without diabetes. These differences narrow with increasing age. Ensuring that 
people with and without diabetes have a similar length of lifetime free of 
health impairments is an important task for public health.

© Robert Koch Institute. All rights reserved unless explicitly granted.

DOI: 10.25646/8331
PMCID: PMC8734206
PMID: 35146309

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The authors declared no 
conflicts of interest.


888. Aging Cell. 2022 Mar;21(3):e13567. doi: 10.1111/acel.13567. Epub 2022 Feb
11.

Metformin induces S-adenosylmethionine restriction to extend the Caenorhabditis 
elegans healthspan through H3K4me3 modifiers.

Xiao Y(1)(2)(3), Liu F(3), Kong Q(1)(2), Zhu X(2)(3), Wang H(2)(3), Li S(1)(2), 
Jiang N(1)(2), Yu C(1)(2), Yun L(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of life sciences, Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, China.
(2)Guizhou Provincial College-based Key Lab for Tumor Prevention and Treatment 
with Distinctive Medicines, Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, China.
(3)College of Basic Medicine, Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, China.

Metformin, a widely prescribed first-line drug for the treatment of type II 
diabetes mellitus, has been shown to extend lifespan and delay the onset of 
age-related diseases. The precisely mechanisms by which these effects are 
realized remain elusive. We find that metformin exposure is restricted to 
adults, which is sufficient to extend lifespan. However, limiting metformin 
exposure to the larvae has no significant effect on Caenorhabditis elegans 
longevity. Here, we show that after metformin treatment, the level of 
S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) is reduced in adults but not in the larvae. Potential 
mechanisms by which reduced SAM might increase lifespan include altering the 
histone methylation. However, the molecular connections between metformin, SAM 
limitation, methyltransferases, and healthspan-associated phenotypes are 
unclear. Through genetic screening of C. elegans, we find that metformin 
promotes the healthspan through an H3K4 methyltransferase/demethylase complex to 
downregulate the targets, including mTOR and S6 kinase. Thus, our studies 
provide molecular links between meformin, SAM limitation, 
histone methylation, and 
healthspan and elucidate the mode action of metformin-regulated healthspan extension will boost its therapeutic application in the treatment of human aging and age-related diseases.

© 2022 The Authors. Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.13567
PMCID: PMC8920454
PMID: 35146893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


889. Rev Prat. 2021 Nov;71(9):965-971.

[Long-term follow-up of persons living with HIV].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Viard JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Unité d'immunoinfectiologie, centre de diagnostic et de thérapeutique, 
Hôtel-Dieu, Paris, France.

Long-term Follow-up of persons Living with hiv Life expectancy of persons living 
with Hiv is reaching that of the general population. In consequence they are 
exposed To age-related comorbidities and Complications, with both classical and 
Hiv- or treatment-related risk factors. Patients with long treatment histories 
Should therefore be screened for cardiovascular Disease, hyperglycemia and 
Dyslipidemia, osteoporosis and certain Malignancies. Preventive actions should 
Be implemented. Although current antiretroviral Drugs are considerably less 
Toxic than first generation medications, Patient cohorts will inexorably become 
Older and accumulate comorbidities and Comedications. This evolution warrants a 
Global and mutidisciplinary approach to Medical care.

Publisher: Le suivi au long Cours des personnes Vivant avec le vih. L’espérance 
de vie des personnes vivant avec le VIH et recevant un traitement antirétroviral 
efficace rejoint celle de la population générale. En conséquence, elles sont 
exposées à des comorbidités et des complications : liées à l’âge, déterminées 
par des facteurs de risque classiques, et spécifiques de l’infection ou de son 
traitement. Les patients ayant une longue histoire thérapeutique doivent ainsi 
faire l’objet d’un dépistage des maladies cardiovasculaires, des anomalies du 
métabolisme glucido-lipidique, de l’ostéoporose, d’un certain nombre de cancers, 
et des mesures de prévention doivent être mises en place. Bien que les 
traitements antirétroviraux actuels soient beaucoup moins toxiques que les 
médicaments de 1re génération, les files actives vieillissent inéluctablement et 
accumulent les comorbidités et comédications. Cette évolution justifie une 
approche globale et multidisciplinaire de la prise en charge.

PMID: 35147310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: L’auteur déclare n’avoir aucun lien d’intérêts.


890. J Genet Eng Biotechnol. 2022 Feb 11;20(1):25. doi:
10.1186/s43141-022-00306-7.

Genome-wide identification of StU-box gene family and assessment of their 
expression in developmental stages of Solanum tuberosum.

Hajibarat Z(1), Saidi A(2), Zeinalabedini M(3)(4), Gorji AM(5), Ghaffari 
MR(3)(4), Shariati V(6), Ahmadvand R(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Sciences and Biotechnology, Faculty of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology, Shahid Beheshti University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Plant Sciences and Biotechnology, Faculty of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology, Shahid Beheshti University, Tehran, Iran. abbas.saidi@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Systems and Synthetic Biology, Agricultural Biotechnology 
Research Institute of Iran, Karaj, Iran.
(4)Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Karaj, 
Iran.
(5)Department of Vegetable Research, Seed and Plant Improvement Institute 
(SPII), Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), 
Karaj, Iran.
(6)NIGEB Genome Center, National Institute of Genetic Engineering and 
Biotechnology, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The Plant U-box (PUB), ubiquitin ligase gene, has a highly conserved 
domain in potato. However, little information is available about U-box genes in 
potato (Solanum tuberosum). In this study, 62 U-box genes were detected in the 
potato genome using bioinformatics methods. Further, motif analysis, gene 
structure, gene expression, TFBS, and synteny analysis were performed on the 
U-box genes.
RESULTS: Based on in silico analysis, most of StU-boxs included a U-box domain; 
however, some of them lacked harbored domain the ARM, Pkinase_Tyr, and other 
domains. Based on their phylogenetic relationships, the StU-box family members 
were categorized into four classes. Analysis of transcription factor binding 
sites (TFBS) in the promoter region of StU-box genes revealed that StU-box genes 
had the highest and the lowest number of TFBS in MYB and CSD, respectively. 
Moreover, based on in silico and gene expression data, variable frequencies of 
TFBS in StU-box genes could indicate that these genes control different 
developmental stages and are involved in complex regulatory mechanisms. The 
number of exons in U-box genes ranged from one to sixteen. For most U-box genes, 
the exon-intron compositions and conserved motifs composition in most proteins 
in each group were similar. The intron-exon patterns and the composition of 
conserved motifs validated the U-box genes phylogenetic classification. Based on 
the results of genome distribution, StU-box genes were distributed unevenly on 
the 12 S. tuberosum chromosomes. The results showed that gene duplication may 
possess a significant role in genome expansion of S. tuberosum. Furthermore, 
genome evolution of S. tuberosum was surveyed using identification of 
orthologous and paralogous. We identified 40 orthologous gene pairs between S. 
tuberosum with Solanum lycopersicum, Oryza sativa, Triticum aestivum, Gossypium 
hirsutum, Zea maize, Coriaria mytifolia, and Arabidopsis thaliana as well as 
eight duplicated genes (paralogous) in S. tuberosum. StU-box 51 gene is one of 
the important gene among other StU-boxes in S. tuberosum under drought stress 
which was expressed in tuber and leaf under drought stress. Furthermore, StU-box 
51 gene has the highest expression levels in four tissue-specific (stem, root, 
leaf, and tuber) in potato as well as it had the highest number of TFBS in 
promoter region. Based on our results, StU-box 51 can introduce to researcher to 
utilize in breeding program and genetic engineering in potato.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this survey will be useful for further investigation 
of the probable role and molecular mechanisms of U-box genes in response to 
different stresses.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s43141-022-00306-7
PMCID: PMC8837765
PMID: 35147812

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


891. J Clin Psychol Med Settings. 2022 Dec;29(4):898-910. doi: 
10.1007/s10880-022-09859-8. Epub 2022 Feb 11.

A Qualitative Exploration into Experiences and Attitudes Regarding Psychosocial 
Challenges, Self-compassion, and Mindfulness in a Population of Adults with 
Cystic Fibrosis.

Kauser S(1), Keyte R(2), Mantzios M(2), Egan H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Business, Law and Social Sciences, 
Birmingham City University, The Curzon Building, 4 Cardigan St., Birmingham, B4 
7BD, UK. sophia.kauser@mail.bcu.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Business, Law and Social Sciences, 
Birmingham City University, The Curzon Building, 4 Cardigan St., Birmingham, B4 
7BD, UK.

To investigate the current psychosocial challenges faced by adults with Cystic 
Fibrosis (CF), while exploring attitudes and experiences of mindfulness and 
self-compassion. Mindfulness and self-compassion are important resources for 
supporting psychological and physical well-being, yet there is limited research 
exploring these positive psychology concepts in CF literature. Twenty UK 
domiciled adults with a diagnosis of CF, took part in a semi-structured 
interview. Using a thematic analysis approach, four themes were developed: (a) 
"I didn't expect to be here": Surpassing the CF life expectancy, (b) "Am I 
psychologically bringing this upon myself?": Psychological complexities of CF, 
(c) "I've had to really learn to be kind to myself": The importance of 
compassion and being self-compassionate, (d) "I think it's a great tool": The 
benefits of practising mindfulness. This research demonstrates a robust need for 
increased integration of accessible psychological practices into routine CF-care 
and self-care for adults with CF. Particularly, practises and interventions that 
draw on the concepts of mindfulness and self-compassion, which may benefit 
patient's health and wellbeing profoundly.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10880-022-09859-8
PMCID: PMC9636098
PMID: 35147829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: S. Kauser, R. Keyte, M. Mantzios, H. Egan 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


892. PLoS One. 2022 Feb 11;17(2):e0262828. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0262828. 
eCollection 2022.

Cost-utility analysis of community occupational therapy in dementia (COTiD-UK) 
versus usual care: Results from VALID, a multi-site randomised controlled trial 
in the UK.

Pizzo E(1), Wenborn J(2)(3), Burgess J(3), Mundy J(4), Orrell M(5), King 
M(2)(6), Omar R(6)(7), Morris S(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Health Research, University College London, London, 
United Kingdom.
(2)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Research & Development Department, North East London NHS Foundation Trust 
(NELFT), London, United Kingdom.
(4)Essex Stroke Hub Team, North East London NHS Foundation Trust (NELFT), 
London, United Kingdom.
(5)Institute of Mental Health, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, United 
Kingdom.
(6)Priment Clinical Trials Unit, Faculty of Brain Sciences, University College 
London, London, United Kingdom.
(7)Department of Statistical Science, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom.
(8)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: A community-based occupational therapy intervention for people with 
mild to moderate dementia and their family carers: the Community Occupational 
Therapy in Dementia-UK version (COTiD-UK); and Treatment as usual (TAU) were 
randomly assigned to 468 pairs (each comprising a person with dementia and a 
family carer) in the Valuing Active Life in Dementia (VALID) randomised 
controlled trial (RCT).
OBJECTIVES: To compare the cost-utility of the COTiD-UK intervention compared to 
TAU, using data from the VALID RCT.
METHODS: We performed a cost-utility analysis estimating mean costs and quality 
adjusted life years (QALYs) per person with dementia and carer for both 
treatments over a 26 weeks' time horizon based on resource use data and utility 
values collected in the trial.
RESULTS: Taking the National Health Service and Personal Social Services 
perspective, including costs and benefits to the person with dementia only, 
measuring Health Related Quality of Life based on Dementia Quality of Life scale 
(DEMQOL), accounting for missing data and adjusting for baseline values, there 
was a significant difference in costs between COTiD-UK and TAU (mean incremental 
cost for COTiD-UK £784 (95% CI £233 to £1334)), but no significant difference in 
outcomes (mean QALYs gained 0.00664 (95% CI -0.00404, 0.01732)). The Incremental 
Net Monetary Benefit (INMB) for COTiD-UK versus TAU was negative at a maximum 
willingness to pay for a QALY of £20000 (mean -£651, 95% CI -£878 to -£424) or 
£30000 (mean -£585, 95% CI -£824 to -£345). Extensive sensitivity analyses 
confirmed the results.
CONCLUSIONS: This community-based occupational therapy intervention has a very 
low probability of being cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0262828
PMCID: PMC8836304
PMID: 35148329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


893. Biopolymers. 2022 May;113(5):e23486. doi: 10.1002/bip.23486. Epub 2022 Feb
11.

A material-based panspermia hypothesis: The potential of polymer gels and 
membraneless droplets.

Sithamparam M(1), Satthiyasilan N(1), Chen C(2), Jia TZ(2)(3), Chandru K(1).

Author information:
(1)Space Science Center (ANGKASA), Institute of Climate Change, National 
University of Malaysia (UKM), Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)Earth-Life Science Institute, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Blue Marble Space Institute of Science, Seattle, Washington, USA.

The Panspermia hypothesis posits that either life's building blocks (molecular 
Panspermia) or life itself (organism-based Panspermia) may have been 
interplanetarily transferred to facilitate the origins of life (OoL) on a given 
planet, complementing several current OoL frameworks. Although many spaceflight 
experiments were performed in the past to test for potential terrestrial 
organisms as Panspermia seeds, it is uncertain whether such organisms will 
likely "seed" a new planet even if they are able to survive spaceflight. 
Therefore, rather than using organisms, using abiotic chemicals as seeds has 
been proposed as part of the molecular Panspermia hypothesis. Here, as an 
extension of this hypothesis, we introduce and review the plausibility of a 
polymeric material-based Panspermia seed (M-BPS) as a theoretical concept, where 
the type of polymeric material that can function as a M-BPS must be able to: (1) 
survive spaceflight and (2) "function", i.e., contingently drive chemical 
evolution toward some form of abiogenesis once arriving on a foreign planet. We 
use polymeric gels as a model example of a potential M-BPS. Polymeric gels that 
can be prebiotically synthesized on one planet (such as polyester gels) could be 
transferred to another planet via meteoritic transfer, where upon landing on a 
liquid bearing planet, can assemble into structures containing cellular-like 
characteristics and functionalities. Such features presupposed that these gels 
can assemble into compartments through phase separation to accomplish relevant 
functions such as encapsulation of primitive metabolic, genetic and catalytic 
materials, exchange of these materials, motion, coalescence, and evolution. All 
of these functions can result in the gels' capability to alter local geochemical 
niches on other planets, thereby allowing chemical evolution to lead to OoL 
events.

© 2022 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/bip.23486
PMID: 35148427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2022 Mar;63(3):430-437. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2021.10.048. Epub 2022 Feb 9.

Cost Effectiveness of Endovascular Revascularisation vs. Exercise Therapy for 
Intermittent Claudication Due to Iliac Artery Obstruction.

van Reijen NS(1), van Dieren S(2), Frans FA(2), Reekers JA(3), Metz R(4), 
Buscher HCJL(5), Koelemay MJW(2); SUPER-study collaborators.

Collaborators: Legemate DA(6), Idu MM(6), Balm R(6), Reekers JA(7), van Lienden 
KP(7), van Delden OM(7), Zijlstra EJ(7), Conijn AP(6), Dijkgraaf MGW(8), 
Engelbert RH(9), De Nie AJ(10), Schreve MA(10), Kropman RHJ(11), Wille J(11), De 
Vries JPM(11), van de Pavoort HDWM(11), van de Mortel RHW(11), van den Heuvel 
DAF(12), van Strijen MJL(12), van Leersum M(12), Vos JA(12), Nio D(4), Rijbroek 
A(4), Vermeulen EGJ(4), Akkersdijk GJM(4), van de Elst A(4), Truijers M(4), van 
Kelckhoven BJ(13), Leijdekkers VJ(14), Vahl AC(14), Blomjous JGAM(15), Poyck 
PPC(16), Van der Vliet JA(16), van der Jagt M(16), Klemm PL(5), Willems MCM(17), 
Huisman LC(17), Lensvelt MMA(17), de Bruine H(18), Mallant MPJH(18), Smeets 
L(19), van Sterkenburg SMM(19), Veendrick PB(20), van Werkum MH(20), Elsman 
BHP(21), van der Hem LG(21), van Tongeren RBM(21), Klok CFM(22), Hellings 
WE(22), Wiersema AM(23), van den Broek TAA(23), Vos GA(23), Teijink JAW(24), van 
Sambeek MRHM(24), Keller BPJA(25), Glade GJ(25), Breek JC(25), Gravendeel J(26), 
Oosterhof-Berktas R(26), Koedam NA(27), Hollander EJF(27), Scharn DM(28), Lemson 
MS(28), Seegers J(28), Krol RM(28), Blankensteijn JD(29), Hoksbergen AWJ(29).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Amsterdam UMC, location AMC, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam Cardiovascular Sciences, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic 
address: n.s.vanreijen@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Department of Surgery, Amsterdam UMC, location AMC, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam Cardiovascular Sciences, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Radiology, Amsterdam UMC, location AMC, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Vascular Surgery, Spaarne Gasthuis, Haarlem, the Netherlands.
(5)Department of Surgery, Gelre Hospital, Apeldoorn, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Vascular Surgery, Cardiovascular sciences, Amsterdam UMC, 
location AMC, the Netherlands.
(7)Department of Radiology, Amsterdam UMC, location AMC, the Netherlands.
(8)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, 
Amsterdam UMC,- Location AMC, Amsterdam, North Holland, the Netherlands.
(9)Centre of Expertise Urban Vitality, Faculty of Health, University of Applied 
Sciences Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(10)Department of Vascular Surgery, Northwest Clinics, Alkmaar, the Netherlands.
(11)Department of Vascular Surgery, St. Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, the 
Netherlands.
(12)Department of Radiology, St. Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, the Netherlands.
(13)Department of Radiology, Spaarne Gasthuis, Haarlem, the Netherlands.
(14)OLVG, Department of Surgery, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(15)OLVG, Department of Radiology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(16)Department of Vascular and Transplant Surgery, Radboudumc, the Netherlands.
(17)Department of Surgery, Flevo Hospital, Almere, the Netherlands.
(18)Department of Radiology, Flevo Hospital, Almere, the Netherlands.
(19)Department of Vascular Surgery, Rijnstate Hospital Arnhem, Arnhem, the 
Netherlands.
(20)Department of Radiology, Rijnstate Hospital Arnhem, Arnhem, the Netherlands.
(21)Department of Surgery, Deventer Ziekenhuis, Deventer, the Netherlands.
(22)Department of Radiology, Deventer Ziekenhuis, Deventer, the Netherlands.
(23)Department of Vascular Surgery, Dijklander Ziekenhuis, Hoorn, the 
Netherlands.
(24)Department of Surgery, Catharina Hospital, Eindhoven, the Netherlands.
(25)Department of Vascular Surgery, Martini Hospital, Groningen, the 
Netherlands.
(26)Department of Radiology, Martini Hospital, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(27)Department of Surgery, Tergooi Hospitals, Hilversum, the Netherlands.
(28)Department of Surgery, Slingeland Hospital, Doetinchem, the Netherlands.
(29)Department of Vascular Surgery, Amsterdam University Medical Centres 
(Amsterdam UMC), Location VUMC, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To compare cost effectiveness of endovascular revascularisation (ER) 
and supervised exercise therapy (SET) as primary treatment for patients with 
intermittent claudication (IC) due to iliac artery obstruction.
METHODS: Cost utility analysis from a restricted societal perspective and time 
horizon of 12 months. Patients were included in a multicentre randomised 
controlled trial (SUPER study, NCT01385774, NTR2648) which compared 
effectiveness of ER and SET. Health status and health related quality of life 
(HRQOL) were measured using the Euroqol 5 dimensions 3 levels (EQ5D-3L) and 
VascuQol-25-NL. Incremental costs were determined per allocated treatment and 
use of healthcare during follow up. Effectiveness of treatment was determined in 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs). The difference between treatment groups was 
calculated by an incremental cost utility ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: Some 240 patients were included, and complete follow up was available 
for 206 patients (ER 111 , SET 95). The mean costs for patients allocated to ER 
were €4 031 and €2 179 for SET, a mean difference of €1 852 (95% bias corrected 
and accelerated [bca] bootstrap confidence interval 1 185 - 2 646). The 
difference in QALYs during follow up was 0.09 (95% bcaCI 0.04 - 0.13) in favour 
of ER. The ICER per QALY was €20 805 (95% bcaCI 11 053 - 45 561). The difference 
in VascuQol sumscore was 0.64 (95% bcaCI 0.39 - 0.91), again in favour of ER.
CONCLUSION: ER as a primary treatment, results in slightly better health outcome 
and higher QALYs and HRQOL during 12 months of follow up. Although these 
differences are statistically significant, clinical relevance must be discussed 
due to the small differences and relatively high cost of ER as primary 
treatment.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2021.10.048
PMID: 35148946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Contemp Clin Trials. 2022 Mar;114:106704. doi: 10.1016/j.cct.2022.106704.
Epub  2022 Feb 8.

Design and outcome measures of LAVENDER, a phase 3 study of trofinetide for Rett 
syndrome.

Neul JL(1), Percy AK(2), Benke TA(3), Berry-Kravis EM(4), Glaze DG(5), Peters 
SU(6), Jones NE(7), Youakim JM(8).

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt Kennedy Center, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
TN, United States. Electronic address: jeffrey.l.neul@vumc.org.
(2)University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, United States. 
Electronic address: apercy@uabmc.com.
(3)Children's Hospital of Colorado/University of Colorado School of Medicine, 
Aurora, CO, United States. Electronic address: tim.benke@cuanschutz.edu.
(4)Rush University Children's Hospital, Chicago, IL, United States. Electronic 
address: elizabeth_berry-kravis@rush.edu.
(5)Texas Children's Hospital/Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, United 
States. Electronic address: dglaze@bcm.edu.
(6)Vanderbilt Kennedy Center, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
TN, United States. Electronic address: sarika.u.peters@vumc.org.
(7)Neuren Pharmaceuticals Limited, Melbourne, Australia. Electronic address: 
njones@neurenpharma.com.
(8)Acadia Pharmaceuticals Inc., Princeton, NJ, United States. Electronic 
address: jyouakim@ACADIA-Pharm.com.

INTRODUCTION: Rett syndrome (RTT) is a debilitating neurodevelopmental disorder 
with no approved treatments. Trofinetide is a synthetic analog of 
glycine-proline-glutamate, the N-terminal tripeptide of insulin-like growth 
factor 1. In a phase 2, placebo-controlled trial in 82 females with RTT aged 
5-15 years, a significant (p ≤ 0.042) improvement over placebo was observed with 
the highest trofinetide dose (200 mg/kg twice daily [BID]) on three measures: 
Rett Syndrome Behaviour Questionnaire (RSBQ), Clinical Global 
Impression-Improvement (CGI-I), and RTT-Clinician Domain Specific 
Concerns-Visual Analog Scale (RTT-DSC-VAS). Trofinetide was well tolerated at 
all doses (50, 100, and 200 mg/kg BID). A phase 3 trial utilizing 
disease-specific and novel scales was designed to investigate the efficacy and 
safety of trofinetide in girls and women with RTT.
METHODS: This 12-week, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study 
(LAVENDER; NCT04181723) will evaluate trofinetide in 187 females, aged 
5-20 years, with RTT. Co-primary endpoints are the RSBQ and CGI-I scales. 
Clinical domains of the CGI-I include communication, ambulation, hand use, 
seizures, attentiveness, and social (eye contact) and autonomic (breathing) 
aspects. Secondary endpoints will leverage four novel RTT-specific clinician 
ratings (derived from the RTT-DSC-VAS) of hand function, ambulation, ability to 
communicate, and verbal communication, and existing scales, to evaluate other 
core symptoms of RTT, quality of life and caregiver burden. A 40-week, 
open-label extension study will follow.
DISCUSSION: This study was designed using disease-specific scales optimized to 
demonstrate changes in core symptoms of RTT and may provide the first phase 3 
data demonstrating drug efficacy in individuals with RTT.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.govNCT04181723.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cct.2022.106704
PMID: 35149233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. J Health Econ. 2022 Mar;82:102599. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2022.102599. Epub
 2022 Feb 5.

A health economic theory of occupational choice, aging, and longevity.

Strulik H(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Goettingen, Department of Economics, Platz der Goettinger 
Sieben 3, Goettingen 37073, Germany. Electronic address: 
holger.strulik@wiwi.uni-goettingen.de.

In this paper, I propose a life cycle model of occupational choice with 
endogenous health behavior, aging, and longevity. Health-demanding work leads to 
a faster accumulation of health deficits and is remunerated with a hazard markup 
on wages. Health deficit accumulation is also influenced by unhealthy 
consumption and health care expenditure. I calibrate the model for a 20 year old 
average American in 2010 and show the following results, among others. 
Health-demanding work is ceteris paribus preferred by male, young, and healthy 
individuals with a relatively low level of education. Health demanding work has 
a negligible effect on health behavior because income and health investment 
effects largely offset each other, implying that health effects can be 
attributed almost fully to the direct health burden of work. Better medical 
technology induces low-skilled individuals to spend a greater part of their life 
in health-demanding work and thus increases the health gradient of education. 
High wealth endowments protect against unhealthy occupational choices. I show 
robustness of the results in an extension of the model with regard to endogenous 
retirement.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2022.102599
PMID: 35149334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2022 Jun;49(7):2401-2413. doi: 
10.1007/s00259-022-05697-w. Epub 2022 Feb 12.

Bone metastases from differentiated thyroid carcinoma: heterogenous tumor 
response to radioactive Iodine therapy and overall survival.

Jannin A(1)(2), Lamartina L(3), Moutarde C(4), Djennaoui M(5), Lion G(6), 
Chevalier B(7)(8), Vantyghem MC(7)(8), Deschamps F(9), Hadoux J(3), Baudin E(3), 
Schlumberger M(3), Leboulleux S(3), Do Cao C(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, University Hospital of Lille, 
Lille, France. arnaud.jannin.aj@gmail.com.
(2)University of Lille, Lille, France. arnaud.jannin.aj@gmail.com.
(3)Gustave Roussy, Service d'oncologie Endocrinienne, Département d'Imagerie, 
University Paris Saclay, Cedex, Villejuif, France.
(4)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Armentières Hospital, 
Armentières, France.
(5)Department of Public Health, Valenciennes Hospital, Valenciennes, France.
(6)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital of Lille and Lille 
University, Lille, France.
(7)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, University Hospital of Lille, 
Lille, France.
(8)University of Lille, Lille, France.
(9)Gustave Roussy, Department of Interventional Radiology, University Paris 
Saclay, Villejuif Cedex, France.

Comment in
    Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2022 Sep;49(11):3622-3623.

PURPOSE: Bone metastases (BM) from differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC) impact 
negatively the quality of life and the life expectancy of patients. The aim of 
the study was (a) to evaluate the overall survival (OS) and prognostic factors 
of OS and (b) to assess predictive factors of complete BM response (C-BM-R) 
using radioiodine treatment (RAI) either alone or in association with focal 
treatment modalities.
METHODS: A total of 178 consecutive DTC patients harbouring BM, treated between 
1989 and 2015, were enrolled in this retrospective study conducted in two 
tertiary referral centers. OS analysis was performed for the whole cohort, and 
only the 145 considered non-RAI refractory patients at BM diagnosis were 
evaluated for C-BM-R following RAI.
RESULTS: The median OS from BM diagnosis was 57 months (IQR: 24-93). In 
multivariate analysis, OS was significantly reduced in the case of T4 stage, 
18FDG uptake by the BM and RAI refractory status. Among the 145 DTC considered 
non-RAI refractory patients at BM diagnosis, 46 patients (31.7%) achieved a 
C-BM-R following RAI treatment, either alone in 32 (18%) patients or in 
association with focal BM treatment modalities in 14. The absence of 
extra-skeletal distant metastasis and of 18FDG uptake in BM were predictive for 
C-BM-R.
CONCLUSIONS: In nearly one-third of DTC patients with RAI avid BM, RAI alone or 
in combination with BM focal treatment can induce C-BM-R. The presence of 18FDG 
uptake in BM is associated with an absence of C-BM-R and with a poor OS. 18FDG 
PET-CT should be performed when BM is suspected.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00259-022-05697-w
PMCID: PMC9165254
PMID: 35149914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


898. Neurol Sci. 2022 Apr;43(4):2363-2374. doi: 10.1007/s10072-022-05944-w. Epub
2022  Feb 11.

Neurological side effects of radiation therapy.

Jacob J(1), Feuvret L(2), Simon JM(2), Ribeiro M(3)(4), Nichelli L(5), Jenny 
C(2)(6), Ricard D(4)(7), Psimaras D(3)(8), Hoang-Xuan K(3)(8), Maingon P(2).

Author information:
(1)Sorbonne Université, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Groupe 
Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière-Charles Foix, Department of Radiation Oncology, 
47-83, Boulevard de L'Hôpital, 75013, Paris, France. julian.jacob@aphp.fr.
(2)Sorbonne Université, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Groupe 
Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière-Charles Foix, Department of Radiation Oncology, 
47-83, Boulevard de L'Hôpital, 75013, Paris, France.
(3)Sorbonne Université, Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Groupe Hospitalier 
Pitié-Salpêtrière-Charles Foix, Neurology 2-Mazarin, 47-83, Boulevard de 
L'Hôpital, 75013, Paris, France.
(4)CNRS, Service de Santé Des Armées, Université de Paris, Centre Borelli, 45, 
rue des Saints-Pères, 75006, Paris, France.
(5)Sorbonne Université, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Groupe 
Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière-Charles Foix, Department of Neuro-Radiology, 
47-83, Boulevard de L'Hôpital, 75013, Paris, France.
(6)Sorbonne Université, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Groupe 
Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière-Charles Foix, Department of Medical Physics, 
47-83, Boulevard de L'Hôpital, 75013, Paris, France.
(7)Service de Santé Des Armées, Department of Neurology, Hôpital d'Instruction 
Des Armées Percy, 141, avenue Henri Barbusse, 92140, Clamart, France.
(8)INSERM, CNRS, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Institut du Cerveau Et 
de La Moelle Épinière, Sorbonne Université, 47-83, Boulevard de L'Hôpital, 
75013, Paris, France.

Radiation therapy (RT) is one of the main treatments administered to patients 
with cancer. The development of technology has improved RT accuracy by allowing 
more precise delivery of high doses to the target volumes with reduced exposure 
of healthy tissue. Life expectancy has increased due to these therapeutic 
advancements and the patients' quality of life remains a major concern. The 
adverse events related to RT are quite various and most likely will impair 
essential neurological functions, e.g. cognitive status. This literature review 
aims to describe the physiopathological processes, the neurological symptoms as 
well as the local modifications observed in magnetic resonance imaging following 
RT. The specific therapeutic options and preventive actions will also be 
discussed.

© 2022. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-022-05944-w
PMID: 35149927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. J Dig Dis. 2022 Mar;23(3):157-165. doi: 10.1111/1751-2980.13085.

Disease burden of primary gallbladder and biliary tract cancers associated with 
body mass index in 195 countries and territories, 1990-2017: A systematic 
analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017.

Wu S(#)(1), Zhao R(#)(2), Zhuang Q(1), Li MT(3), Qian YQ(1), Ye X(1), Jiang 
Y(4), Zhu HY(4), Dong ZX(1), Wan XJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endoscopy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University Affiliated Sixth 
People's Hospital, Shanghai, China.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Renji Hospital, Shanghai 
Institute of Digestive Disease, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Affiliated People's Hospital of Ningbo 
University, Ningbo, Zhejiang Province, China.
(4)Changning District Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, Shanghai, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the incidence of primary gallbladder and biliary tract 
cancer, mortality and disability-adjusted life years (DALY) of the global burden 
from 1990 to 2017.
METHODS: Data of 195 countries and territories from 1990 to 2017 were extracted 
from the Global Health Data Exchange. The age-standardized incidence rate (ASIR) 
and estimated annual percentage change (EAPC) were employed to quantify trends 
in the incidence of primary gallbladder and biliary tract cancer. The 
age-standardized death rate (ASDR), age-standardized DALY and their 
corresponding EAPC were used to evaluate mortality trends.
RESULTS: The global incidence of primary gallbladder and biliary tract cancer 
rose by 75.9% from 119 900 cases in 1990 to 210 900 cases in 2017. The highest 
ASIR was observed in Chile (10.8 per 100 000 in 2017), followed by Japan and 
South Korea. Regions with the highest social development index (SDI) quintile 
also had the highest death cases associated with primary gallbladder and biliary 
tract cancer in 2017 (60 100, 95% UI 55 800-62 700). A high body mass index 
(BMI) was found to be closely related to age-standardized deaths and 
age-standardized DALY in most of the regions analyzed.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary gallbladder and biliary tract cancer remains a serious 
threat to global public health, especially in high-SDI countries. The ASDR and 
age-standardized DALY decreased from 1990 to 2017. A high BMI may be associated 
with this cancer burden.

© 2022 Chinese Medical Association Shanghai Branch, Chinese Society of 
Gastroenterology, Renji Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiaotong University 
School of Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1751-2980.13085
PMID: 35150060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Age Ageing. 2022 Feb 2;51(2):afab271. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afab271.

