according to the current universal definition-rather than coronary 
atherothrombosis. Moreover, the increasing use of high-sensitivity cardiac 
troponin assays has led to a heightened detection of T2MI-often causing 
relatively little myocardial injury-, which seems to have doubled its numbers in 
recent years. Nevertheless, owing to its multifaceted pathophysiology and 
clinical presentation, T2MI is still underdiagnosed. Perhaps more importantly, 
T2MI is also victim of undertreatment, as drugs that constitute the cornerstone 
of therapy in most cardiovascular diseases are much more unlikely to be 
prescribed in T2MI than in coronary atherothrombosis. In this paper, we review 
the recent literature on the classification, pathophysiology, epidemiology, and 
management of T2MI, trying to summarise the state-of-the-art knowledge about 
this increasingly important pathologic condition. Finally, based on the current 
scientific evidence, we also propose an algorithm that may be easily utilised in 
clinical practice, in order to improve T2MI diagnosis and risk stratification.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Società Italiana di Medicina 
Interna (SIMI).

DOI: 10.1007/s11739-021-02920-8
PMCID: PMC8853072
PMID: 35157215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


919. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2022 Jan;30(1):24-32.
doi:  10.32687/0869-866X-2022-30-1-24-32.

[The health capital and efficiency of regional health care systems: The 
conformances and contradictions].

[Article in Russian]

Kudelina OV(1), Kaneva MA(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)The Federal State Budget Educational Institution of Higher Education "The 
Siberian State Medical University" of Minzdrav of Russia, 634050, Tomsk, Russia, 
koudelina@ngs.ru.
(2)The E. T. Gaydar Institute of Economical Policy, 125993, Moscow, Russia.
(3)The Federal State Budget Institution of Science "The Institute of Economics 
and Industrial Engineering of the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of 
Sciences", 630090, Novosibirsk, Russia.

The article explores relationship between health capital and efficiency indices 
of regional health systems. The correlation analysis of relationship between 
individual subjective assessments of health capital and objective indices of 
health care system functioning in the regions and the Federal Okrugs of the 
Russian Federation based on application of Minmax technology was carried out. 
The determination of level of health capital was implemented according to 
results of population survey and subsequent modeling. The effectiveness of 
regional health care systems was assessed using indices of healthy life 
expectancy, percentage of the disabled and per capita health care expenditures 
in the regions. It is established that 1/3 of subjects of the Russian Federation 
have high level of health care efficiency. However, the high level of health 
capital was noted in 12.5% of subjects, while in 40% of them its level was low. 
There are pronounced regional differences in the stock of health capital. The 
highest level of health capital was established in the subjects of the North 
Caucasian Federal Okrug that is conditioned by higher healthy life expectancy 
and higher efficiency of health care system at lower per capita costs. The 
statistically significant differences between subjective and objective factors 
affecting assessment of health capital are presented. The lower per capita 
health care costs and high percentage of the disabled have no significant impact 
on health capital of the population in the regions of Russia. The differences 
between health capital and regional health system performance indices are 
conditioned by subjective nature of health capital estimates that are determined 
by individuals within social groups and are characterized by persistent 
systematic differences between regions.

DOI: 10.32687/0869-866X-2022-30-1-24-32
PMID: 35157376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Health Psychol. 2022 Mar;41(3):225-234. doi: 10.1037/hea0001159. Epub 2022
Feb  14.

Psychological well-being, education, and mortality.

Boylan JM(1), Tompkins JL(1), Krueger PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Behavioral Sciences.

OBJECTIVES: Research on older adults often focuses on mitigating health risks, 
and less is known about protective factors that contribute to longer, healthier 
lives. We examine longitudinal associations between psychological well-being and 
mortality among a national sample of older adults and test competing hypotheses 
about whether the education/mortality association depends on the level of 
psychological well-being.
METHOD: We use six waves (2006-2016) of the Health and Retirement Study, a 
national sample of adults over age 50 (n = 21,172), with 14 years of mortality 
follow-up. Psychological well-being is measured up to three times and includes 
positive affect, life satisfaction, purpose in life, social support, and 
optimism. Discrete-time survival models examine (a) the association between 
time-varying psychological well-being and mortality, and (b) interactions 
between psychological well-being and education on mortality.
RESULTS: Higher purpose in life, positive affect, optimism, social support, and 
life satisfaction predicted lower mortality. A 1 SD increase in most measures of 
psychological well-being was associated with a 2-4 year increase in life 
expectancy at age 50. Positive affect and purpose in life moderated the 
education/mortality association-the inverse association between education and 
mortality was stronger for those with high psychological well-being.
CONCLUSIONS: We find strong evidence that psychological well-being predicts 
lower mortality risk and modifies the association between education and 
mortality. The inverse association between education and mortality becomes 
stronger at higher levels of purpose in life and positive affect. Therefore, 
efforts to promote life satisfaction, social support, and optimism may support 
longer lives without widening education disparities. (PsycInfo Database Record 
(c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/hea0001159
PMCID: PMC9901287
PMID: 35157480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The authors would like to thank Carol Ryff, Richard Rogers, and Ryan O’Connell 
for their contributions to this project.


921. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2021 Feb;70(18):1-18.

U.S. State Life Tables, 2019.

Arias E, Xu J, Tejada-Vera B, Bastian B.

Objectives-This report presents complete period life tables for each of the 50 
states and the District of Columbia (D.C.) by sex based on age-specific death 
rates in 2019.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 35157570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Lancet Oncol. 2022 Mar;23(3):374-381. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(22)00062-6.
Epub  2022 Feb 11.

Abemaciclib in patients with p16ink4A-deficient mesothelioma (MiST2): a 
single-arm, open-label, phase 2 trial.

Fennell DA(1), King A(2), Mohammed S(3), Greystoke A(4), Anthony S(3), Poile 
C(5), Nusrat N(5), Scotland M(2), Bhundia V(2), Branson A(3), Brookes C(3), 
Darlison L(2), Dawson AG(5), Gaba A(5), Hutka M(2), Morgan B(2), Bajaj A(2), 
Richards C(2), Wells-Jordan P(5), Thomas A(5); MiST2 study group.

Collaborators: Fennell DA, King A, Greystoke A, Anthony S, Moody S, Poille C, 
Nusrat N, Scotland M, Bhundia V, Branson A, Brookes C, Darlison L, Dawson AG, 
Gaba A, Hutka M, Morgan B, Bajaj A, Richards C, Wells-Jordan P, Nicolson A, 
Underwood J, Sodha-Ramdeen A, Cowley C, Barber S, Thomas A.

Author information:
(1)Leicester Cancer Research Centre, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK. 
Electronic address: df132@leicester.ac.uk.
(2)University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, Leicester, UK.
(3)Leicester Clinical Trials Unit, Leicester, UK.
(4)Northern Cancer Research Centre, Newcastle, UK.
(5)Leicester Cancer Research Centre, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2022 Jun;23(6):e237.
    Lancet Oncol. 2022 Jun;23(6):e238.

BACKGROUND: Genetically stratified therapy for malignant mesothelioma is 
unavailable. Mesotheliomas frequently harbour loss of the chromosome 9p21.3 
locus (CDKN2A-MTAP), which is associated with shorter overall survival due to 
loss of the tumour suppressor p16ink4A, an endogenous suppressor of 
cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)4 and CDK6. Genetic restoration of p16ink4A 
suppresses mesothelioma in preclinical models, underpinning the rationale for 
targeting CDK4 and CDK6 in p16ink4A-negative mesothelioma. We developed a 
multicentre, stratified, phase 2 trial to test this hypothesis.
METHODS: The MiST2 study was a single-arm, open-label, phase 2 clinical trial 
done two UK centres. Patients older than 18 years with any histologically 
confirmed subtype of mesothelioma (pleural or peritoneal) with radiological 
progression after at least one course of platinum-based chemotherapy were 
molecularly screened by immunohistochemistry for p16ink4A. Patients with 
p16ink4A-negative mesothelioma were eligible for inclusion in the study. 
Patients were required to have measurable disease by modified Response 
Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours version 1.1 for malignant mesothelioma, a 
predicted life expectancy of at least 12 weeks, and an Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology Group performance status score of 0-1. Patients received oral 
abemaciclib 200 mg twice daily, administered in 28-day cycles for 24 weeks. The 
primary endpoint was the disease control rate (patients with complete responses, 
partial responses, or stable disease) at 12 weeks. The null hypothesis could be 
rejected if at least 11 patients had disease control. The efficacy and safety 
populations were defined as all patients who received at least one dose of the 
study drug. The study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03654833, and is 
ongoing (but MiST2 is now closed).
FINDINGS: Between Sept 31, 2019, and March 2, 2020, 27 eligible patients 
consented to molecular screening. The median follow-up was 18·4 weeks (IQR 
6·7-23·9). One patient was excluded before treatment because of a serious 
adverse event before study drug allocation. 26 (100%) of 26 treated patients 
were p16ink4A deficient and received at least one dose of abemaciclib. Disease 
control at 12 weeks was reported in 14 (54%) of 26 patients (95% CI 36-71). 
Grade 3 or worse treatment-related adverse events (of any cause) occurred in 
eight (27%) of 26 patients (diarrhoea, dyspnoea, thrombocytopenia, vomiting, 
urinary tract infection, increased alanine aminotransferase, ascites, chest 
infection or suspected chest infection, neutropenic sepsis, alopecia, blood clot 
left calf, fall [broken neck and collar bone], haemoptysis, lower respiratory 
tract infection, and pulmonary embolism). Grade 3 or worse treatment-related 
adverse events occurred in three (12%) of 26 patients (diarrhoea, 
thrombocytopenia, vomiting, increased alanine aminotransferase, and pulmonary 
embolism). Serious adverse events occurred in six (23%) of 26 patients, leading 
to treatment discontinuation in one (4%) patient (diarrhoea, urinary tract 
infection, chest infection, neutropenic sepsis, fall [broken neck and collar 
bone], haemoptysis, lower respiratory tract infection, and pulmonary embolism). 
One patient had a serious adverse event related to abemaciclib (diarrhoea). One 
(4%) of 26 patients died from an adverse event (neutropenic sepsis).
INTERPRETATION: This study met its primary endpoint, showing promising clinical 
activity of abemaciclib in patients with p16ink4A-negative mesothelioma who were 
previously treated with chemotherapy, and warrants its further investigation in 
a randomised study as a targeted stratified therapy.
FUNDING: University of Leicester, Asthma UK and British Lung Foundation 
Partnership, and the Victor Dahdaleh Foundation.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(22)00062-6
PMID: 35157829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests DAF reports grants from 
Astex Therapeutics, Boehringer Ingelheim, MSD, and Bayer; personal fees from 
Aldeyra, Inventiva, and Paredox; non-financial support from Clovis, Eli Lilly, 
and BMS; and personal fees and non-financial support from Roche, during the 
conduct of the study. AT reports personal fees from Amgen, outside the submitted 
work. All other authors declare no competing interests.


923. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2022 Jun;63(6):1014-1021.e4. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2022.02.004. Epub 2022 Feb 11.

HAprog: A New Prognostic Application to Assist Oncologists in Routine Care.

Preto DD(1), Paiva BSR(2), Hui D(3), Bruera E(3), Paiva CE(4).

Author information:
(1)Palliative Care and Quality of Life Research Group, Post-Graduate Program, 
Barretos Cancer Hospital (D.D.P., B.S.R.P., C.E.P.), Barretos, Sao Paulo, 
Brazil; Department of Clinical Oncology, Barretos Cancer Hospital (D.D.P., 
C.E.P.), Barretos, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Palliative Care and Quality of Life Research Group, Post-Graduate Program, 
Barretos Cancer Hospital (D.D.P., B.S.R.P., C.E.P.), Barretos, Sao Paulo, 
Brazil; Researcher Support Centre, Learning and Research Institute, Barretos 
Cancer Hospital (B.S.R.P., C.E.P.), Barretos, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Palliative Care and Rehabilitation Medicine, Division of Cancer 
Medicine, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center (D.H., E.B.), 
Houston, Texas, USA.
(4)Palliative Care and Quality of Life Research Group, Post-Graduate Program, 
Barretos Cancer Hospital (D.D.P., B.S.R.P., C.E.P.), Barretos, Sao Paulo, 
Brazil; Department of Clinical Oncology, Barretos Cancer Hospital (D.D.P., 
C.E.P.), Barretos, Sao Paulo, Brazil; Researcher Support Centre, Learning and 
Research Institute, Barretos Cancer Hospital (B.S.R.P., C.E.P.), Barretos, Sao 
Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: caredupai@gmail.com.

CONTEXT: More patients are seeing palliative care (PC) earlier in the disease 
trajectory. The Barretos Prognostic Nomogram (BPN) was designed to fill the gap 
of survival prognostication for patients with advanced cancer and months of life 
expectancy. However, its routine use is limited by the common need for a ruler 
and calculator. Additionally, the BPN requires blood tests.
OBJECTIVES: The aim is to refine the BPN and to create a prognostic application 
(App) for use on smartphones.
METHODS: This is a reanalysis of the two cohorts of advanced cancer patients 
(development, n=215 and validation, n=276). The variable 'metastasis' was 
revised (volume-site combinations) and 'KPS' replaced by 'ECOG-PS'. Prognostic 
variables were selected for multivariable Cox and Log-logistic parametric 
regression analyses; the most accurate final models were identified by backward 
variable elimination. Calibration and discrimination properties were evaluated 
in the validation sample.
RESULTS: The 'full version' model is composed of 6 parameters: sex, locoregional 
disease, sites of metastasis, ECOG-PS, WBC and albumin. In the 'clinical 
version' model (5 variables), the variable 'antineoplastic treatment' was 
included and the laboratory variables were excluded. At validation, both models 
were well calibrated and presented adequate c-Index values (0.778 and 0.739). 
HAprog is a freely downloadable offline App that is used by clinicians to 
calculate prognosis in less than 1 minute.
CONCLUSION: The new models that integrate HAprog are refined prognostic tools 
with adequate calibration and discrimination properties. It has potential 
practical impact for the oncologist dealing with outpatients with advanced 
cancer during the decision-making process.

Copyright © 2022 American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine. Published 
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2022.02.004
PMID: 35157984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures Research grant resource supported by 
Learning and Research Institute of Barretos Cancer Hospital. Bid notice 
N.07/2019-IEP/HCB, August 27, 2019. The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


924. Cancers (Basel). 2022 Jan 19;14(3):495. doi: 10.3390/cancers14030495.

Reduction of the Vertebral Bone Mineral Density in Patients with Hodgkin 
Lymphoma Correlates with Their Age and the Treatment Regimen They Received.

Ofshenko N(1), Bercovich E(2), Mashiach T(3), Weiler-Sagie M(4), Militianu D(2), 
Dann EJ(1)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Ruth and Bruce Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, Technion, Haifa 3109601, 
Israel.
(2)Department of Radiology, Rambam Health Care Campus, Haifa 3109601, Israel.
(3)Quality Assurance Unit, Rambam Health Care Campus, Haifa 3109601, Israel.
(4)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Rambam Health Care Campus, Haifa 3109601, 
Israel.
(5)Department of Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation, Rambam Health Care 
Campus, Haifa 3109601, Israel.
(6)Blood Bank and Apheresis Unit, Rambam Health Care Campus, Haifa 3109601, 
Israel.

Nowadays, Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) has become highly curable. The young age at 
diagnosis and long life expectancy emphasize the importance of preventing 
long-term treatment side effects, including bone mineral density (BMD) loss, in 
these patients. We aimed to evaluate the effects of first-line therapeutic 
modalities on BMD dynamics in HL patients, intending to identify individuals at 
risk for osteopenia. Demographics, HL risk factors, treatment, including 
cumulative steroid doses, and BMD of 213 newly-diagnosed HL patients (median age 
29 years), treated at Rambam between 2008-2016, were analyzed. The main 
chemotherapy regimens applied were: ABVD (adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, 
dacarbazine) and escalated BEACOPP (EB; bleomycin, etoposide, adriamycin, 
cyclophosphamide, oncovin, procarbazine, prednisone). BMD was measured using 
PET/CT scans. BMD loss >15% was revealed in 48% of patients at therapy 
completion, with osteopenia prevalence of 4% and 14% at baseline and 
post-therapy, respectively. Cumulative hydrocortisone equivalent doses >3400 
mg/m2 correlated with significant BMD reduction. Multivariate analysis at 6 
months post-therapy identified age ≥30 years and EB-regimens as significant risk 
factors for BMD decrease >15%. Therapy-related BMD loss is common in HL 
patients. Its persistence is associated with age ≥30 years and EB treatment. 
Reduction of cumulative steroid doses and switch to non-gonadotoxic drugs should 
be considered.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14030495
PMCID: PMC8833719
PMID: 35158763

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


925. Cells. 2022 Jan 28;11(3):463. doi: 10.3390/cells11030463.

Dictyostelium discoideum: A Model System for Neurological Disorders.

Storey CL(1), Williams RSB(2), Fisher PR(1), Annesley SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Anatomy, Physiology and Pharmacology, La Trobe 
University, Bundoora 3086, Australia.
(2)Centre for Biomedical Sciences, School of Biological Sciences, Royal Holloway 
University of London, Egham TW20 0EX, UK.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of neurological disorders is increasing due to 
population growth and extended life expectancy. Despite advances in the 
understanding of these disorders, curative strategies for treatment have not yet 
eventuated. In part, this is due to the complexities of the disorders and a lack 
of identification of their specific underlying pathologies. Dictyostelium 
discoideum has provided a useful, simple model to aid in unraveling the complex 
pathological characteristics of neurological disorders including Alzheimer's 
disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, neuronal ceroid 
lipofuscinoses and lissencephaly. In addition, D. discoideum has proven to be an 
innovative model for pharmaceutical research in the neurological field.
SCOPE OF REVIEW: This review describes the contributions of D. discoideum in the 
field of neurological research. The continued exploration of proteins implicated 
in neurological disorders in D. discoideum may elucidate their pathological 
roles and fast-track curative therapeutics.

DOI: 10.3390/cells11030463
PMCID: PMC8833889
PMID: 35159273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


926. Foods. 2022 Jan 24;11(3):318. doi: 10.3390/foods11030318.

Pulsed Vacuum Drying of Pepper (Capsicum annuum L.): Effect of High-Humidity Hot 
Air Impingement Blanching Pretreatment on Drying Kinetics and Quality 
Attributes.

Geng Z(1), Huang X(1), Wang J(1)(2), Xiao H(1)(3), Yang X(1), Zhu L(1), Qi X(1), 
Zhang Q(1), Hu B(4).

Author information:
(1)Engineering Research Center for Production Mechanization of Oasis Special 
Economic Crop, College of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, Ministry of 
Education, Shihezi University, Shihezi 832000, China.
(2)College of Food Science and Engineering, Northwest A&F University, Xianyang 
712100, China.
(3)College of Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, China.
(4)Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps Key Laboratory of Modern 
Agricultural Machinery, Shihezi 832000, China.

With a high moisture content, fresh peppers are perishable and rot easily. 
Drying is essential for shelf-life extension. The natural thin wax layer on the 
pepper surface hinders moisture transfer. Traditionally, chemical dipping or 
mechanical pricking is used to remove this wax layer. However, in chemical 
dipping, chemical residues can trigger food-safety issues, while the low 
efficiency of mechanical pricking hinders its industrial application. Feasible 
pretreatment methods are advantageous for industrial use. Here, an emerging 
pretreatment technique (high-humidity hot-air impingement blanching, HHAIB) was 
used for peppers before drying and its effects on drying characteristics, 
microstructure, and polyphenol oxidase (PPO) activity were explored. The impact 
of drying temperature on color parameters and red pigment content of 
pulsed-vacuum-dried peppers was also evaluated. PPO activity was reduced to less 
than 20% after blanching at 110 °C for 60 s. HHAIB reduced drying time and PPO 
activity and promoted chemical-substance release. Effective water diffusivity 
was highest (5.01 × 10-10 m2/s) after blanching at 110 °C for 90 s, and the 
brightness value and red pigment content were highest (9.94 g/kg) at 70 °C. 
HHAIB and pulsed vacuum drying are promising pretreatment and drying methods for 
enhancing the drying rate and quality of red peppers.

DOI: 10.3390/foods11030318
PMCID: PMC8834486
PMID: 35159468

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


927. Nanomaterials (Basel). 2022 Jan 21;12(3):345. doi: 10.3390/nano12030345.

Impact of Aging on the Ovarian Extracellular Matrix and Derived 3D Scaffolds.

Pennarossa G(1), De Iorio T(1), Gandolfi F(2), Brevini TAL(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biomedical Embryology, Department of Health, Animal Science and 
Food Safety and Center for Stem Cell Research, Università degli Studi di Milano, 
20133 Milan, Italy.
(2)Laboratory of Biomedical Embryology, Department of Agricultural and 
Environmental Sciences-Production, Landscape, Agroenergy, Università degli Studi 
di Milano, 20133 Milan, Italy.

Advances in medical care, improvements in sanitation, and rising living 
standards contribute to increased life expectancy. Although this reflects 
positive human development, it also poses new challenges. Among these, 
reproductive aging is gradually becoming a key health issue because the age of 
menopause has remained constant at ~50 years, leading women to live longer in 
suboptimal endocrine conditions. An adequate understanding of ovarian senescence 
mechanisms is essential to prevent age-related diseases and to promote 
wellbeing, health, and longevity in women. We here analyze the impact of aging 
on the ovarian extracellular matrix (ECM), and we demonstrate significant 
changes in its composition and organization with collagen, glycosaminoglycans, 
and laminins significantly incremented, and elastin, as well as fibronectin, 
decreased. This is accompanied by a dynamic response in gene expression levels 
of the main ECM- and protease-related genes, indicating a direct impact of aging 
on the transcription machinery. Furthermore, in order to study the mechanisms 
driving aging and identify possible strategies to counteract ovarian tissue 
degeneration, we here described the successful production of a 3D ECM-based 
biological scaffold that preserves the structural modifications taking place in 
vivo and that represents a powerful high predictive in vitro model for 
reproductive aging and its prevention.

DOI: 10.3390/nano12030345
PMCID: PMC8839021
PMID: 35159690

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


928. J Clin Med. 2022 Jan 19;11(3):493. doi: 10.3390/jcm11030493.

Diminished Endothelial Function but Normal Vascular Structure in Adults with 
Tetralogy of Fallot.

Goeder D(1)(2), Oberhoffer-Fritz R(1)(2), Brudy L(1), Willinger L(1), Meyer 
M(1), Ewert P(1), Müller J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)German Heart Centre Munich, Department of Paediatric Cardiology and 
Congenital Heart Disease, Technical University Munich, 80636 Munich, Germany.
(2)Institute of Preventive Pediatrics, Technical University Munich, 80992 
Munich, Germany.

The life expectancy of patients with Tetralogy of Fallot (ToF) has increased in 
recent years. As a result, other risk factors with later onset in life are in 
the focus of patient care. Endothelial function is an early indicator of 
cardiovascular risk and was investigated along further structural vessel 
properties. A total of 17 patients (41.7 ± 7.1 years, 8 women) with Tetralogy of 
Fallot were 1:2 matched for sex with 34 (38.9 ± 8.1 years, 16 women) healthy 
volunteers. Participants received an assessment of their endothelial function 
and a structural assessment of the aorta. Patients with ToF showed a reduced 
endothelial function determined by reactive hyperaemia index after adjusting for 
age, weight and height (ToF: 1.55 ± 0.31 vs. controls: 1.84 ± 0.47; p = 0.023). 
No differences in carotid intima-media thickness (cIMT) between the ToF and 
healthy controls (ToF: 0.542 ± 0.063 mm vs. controls: 0.521 ± 0.164 mm; p = 
0.319) were found. Patients with ToF had reduced vascular function compared to 
healthy subjects. As the structural component is not affected, endothelial 
dysfunction seems not to have yet manifested itself as a morphological change. 
Nevertheless, long-term management of these patients should include vascular 
parameters.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11030493
PMCID: PMC8836741
PMID: 35159945

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


929. J Clin Med. 2022 Jan 22;11(3):557. doi: 10.3390/jcm11030557.

Ventilation-Induced Lung Injury (VILI) in Neonates: Evidence-Based Concepts and 
Lung-Protective Strategies.

Kalikkot Thekkeveedu R(1), El-Saie A(2)(3), Prakash V(4), Katakam L(5), Shivanna 
B(5).

Author information:
(1)Section of Neonatology, Department of Pediatrics, University of Mississippi 
Medical Center, Jackson, MS 39216, USA.
(2)Section of Neonatology, Department of Pediatrics, Children's Mercy Hospital, 
Kansas City, MO 64106, USA.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Cairo University, Cairo 11956, Egypt.
(4)Department of Pathology, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, 
MS 39216, USA.
(5)Section of Neonatology, Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Supportive care with mechanical ventilation continues to be an essential 
strategy for managing severe neonatal respiratory failure; however, it is well 
known to cause and accentuate neonatal lung injury. The pathogenesis of 
ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI) is multifactorial and complex, resulting 
predominantly from interactions between ventilator-related factors and 
patient-related factors. Importantly, VILI is a significant risk factor for 
developing bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), the most common chronic respiratory 
morbidity of preterm infants that lacks specific therapies, causes life-long 
morbidities, and imposes psychosocial and economic burdens. Studies of older 
children and adults suggest that understanding how and why VILI occurs is 
essential to developing strategies for mitigating VILI and its consequences. 
This article reviews the preclinical and clinical evidence on the pathogenesis 
and pathophysiology of VILI in neonates. We also highlight the evidence behind 
various lung-protective strategies to guide clinicians in preventing and 
attenuating VILI and, by extension, BPD in neonates. Further, we provide a 
snapshot of future directions that may help minimize neonatal VILI.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11030557
PMCID: PMC8836835
PMID: 35160009

Conflict of interest statement: The authors do not have any conflict of interest 
to disclose.


930. J Clin Med. 2022 Jan 25;11(3):595. doi: 10.3390/jcm11030595.

Iron Deficiency and Reduced Muscle Strength in Patients with Acute and Chronic 
Ischemic Stroke.

Scherbakov N(1)(2)(3)(4), Sandek A(5)(6), Valentova M(5)(6), Mayer A(1), von 
Haehling S(5)(6), Jankowska E(7)(8), Anker SD(1)(4)(9), Doehner W(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Berlin Institute of Health, Center for Regenerative Therapies (BCRT), 
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(2)Center for Stroke Research Berlin (CSB), Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
10117 Berlin, Germany.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine and Cardiology, Campus Virchow-Klinikum, 
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(4)German Centre for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partner Site Berlin, 10785 
Berlin, Germany.
(5)Department of Cardiology and Pneumology, University of Göttingen, 37073 
Göttingen, Germany.
(6)German Centre for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partner Site Göttingen, 
37075 Göttingen, Germany.
(7)Institute of Heart Disease, Wroclaw Medical University, 50-367 Wroclaw, 
Poland.
(8)Institute of Heart Disease, University Hospital, 50-367 Wroclaw, Poland.
(9)Division of Cardiology and Metabolism-Heart Failure, Cachexia & Sarcopenia, 
Department of Cardiology (CVK), Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 10117 
Berlin, Germany.

(1) Introduction: Iron deficiency (ID) contributes to impaired functional 
performance and reduced quality of life in patients with chronic illnesses. The 
role of ID in stroke is unclear. The aim of this prospective study was to 
evaluate the prevalence of ID and to evaluate its association with long-term 
functional outcome in patients with ischemic stroke. (2) Patients and Methods: 
140 patients (age 69 ± 13 years, BMI 27.7 ± 4.6 kg/m², mean ± SD) admitted to a 
university hospital stroke Unit, with acute ischemic stroke of the middle 
cerebral artery were consecutively recruited to this observational study. Study 
examinations were completed after admission (3 ± 2 days after acute stroke) and 
at one-year follow up (N = 64, 382 ± 27 days after stroke). Neurological status 
was evaluated according to the National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) 
and the modified Rankin scale (mRS). Muscle isometric strength of the 
non-affected limb was assessed by the maximum handgrip test and knee extension 
leg test. ID was diagnosed with serum ferritin levels ≤ 100 µg/L (ID Type I) or 
100-300 µg/L if transferrin saturation (TSAT) < 20% (ID Type II). (3) Results: 
The prevalence of ID in acute stroke patients was 48% (N = 67), with about 
two-thirds of patients (N = 45) displaying ID Type I and one-third (N = 22) Type 
II. Handgrip strength (HGS) and quadriceps muscle strength were reduced in 
patients with ID compared to patients without ID at baseline (HGS: 26.5 ± 10.4 
vs. 33.8 ± 13.2 kg, p < 0.001 and quadriceps: 332 ± 130 vs. 391 ± 143 N, p = 
0.06). One year after stroke, prevalence of ID increased to 77% (p = 0.001). 
While an improvement of HGS was observed in patients with normal iron status, 
patients with ID had no improvement in HGS difference (4.6 ± 8.3 vs. -0.7 ± 6.5 
kg, p < 0.05). Patients with ID remained with lower HGS compared to patients 
with normal iron status (28.2 ± 12.5 vs. 44.0 ± 8.6 kg, p < 0.0001). (4) 
Conclusions: Prevalence of ID was high in patients after acute stroke and 
further increased one year after stroke. ID was associated with lower muscle 
strength in acute stroke patients. In patients with ID, skeletal muscle strength 
did not improve one year after stroke.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11030595
PMCID: PMC8836993
PMID: 35160047

Conflict of interest statement: A.S. was supported by a grant from 
Oskar–Helene–Stiftung. W.D. reports speaker fees and advisory honoraria from 
Aimediq, Luxembourg; Bayer, Germany; Boehringer Ingelheim, Germany; Lilly, 
Germany; Medtronic, Germany; Pfizer, Germany; Sanofi-Aventis, France; 
Sphingotec, Germany; and Vifor Pharma, Switzerland outside the submitted work 
and research support from Vifor Pharma, Switzerland and ZS Pharma, UK outside 
the submitted work. E.J. reports speaker advisory honoraria from Vifor Pharma, 
Switzerland outside of the submitted work and received an unrestricted grant 
from Vifor Pharma, Switzerland for Wroclaw Medical University outside of the 
submitted work. S.v.H. received consultancy and speaker honoraria from Bayer, 
Germany; Boehringer Ingelheim, Germany; BRAHMS, Germany; Chugai, Japan; 
Grünenthal, Germany; Helsinn, Ireland; Hexal, Germany; Novartis, Germany; 
Respicardia, USA; Roche, Switzerland; Sorin, Italy and Vifor Pharma, 
Switzerland. S.D.A. reports personal fees from Vifor Pharma, Switzerland; Bayer, 
Germany; Boehringer Ingelheim, Germany; Servier, USA; V-Wave, USA; and Novartis, 
Germany outside the submitted work. The authors (N.S., M.V. and A.M.) declare no 
conflict of interest.


931. Plants (Basel). 2022 Jan 27;11(3):343. doi: 10.3390/plants11030343.

Welsh Onion (Allium fistulosum L.) Seed Physiology, Breeding, Production and 
Trade.

Padula G(1), Xia X(1), Hołubowicz R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Phytopathology, Seed Science and Technology, Poznań University 
of Life Sciences, ul. Dąbrowskiego 159, 60-594 Poznan, Poland.

In the coming years, it is expected that the European Union countries will 
increase their interest in the use of the Welsh onion (Allium fistulosum L.). It 
is a little-known vegetable from the Far East. Consequently, growers might be 
asking their extension advisors increasingly about its seed physiology and 
commercial production. This article provides basic information on the origin of 
the species, its botanical characteristics, the main breeding directions and 
achievements, seed production methods and areas, main plant breeding and seed 
production companies, seed dormancy and the best methods for seed storage, use 
of the crop and market responses to promotion activities.

DOI: 10.3390/plants11030343
PMCID: PMC8839942
PMID: 35161326

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


932. Sensors (Basel). 2022 Jan 18;22(3):726. doi: 10.3390/s22030726.

fNIRS-Based Upper Limb Motion Intention Recognition Using an Artificial Neural 
Network for Transhumeral Amputees.

Sattar NY(1), Kausar Z(1), Usama SA(1), Farooq U(1), Shah MF(2), Muhammad S(3), 
Khan R(4), Badran M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechatronics and Biomedical Engineering, Air University, Main 
Campus, PAF Complex, Islamabad 44000, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Khwaja Fareed University of Engineering 
& IT, Rahim Yar Khan 64200, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Computing, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, Hong 
Kong.
(4)Institute of Manufacturing, Engineering Management, University of Engineering 
and Applied Sciences, Swat, Mingora 19060, Pakistan.
(5)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering and Technology, 
Future University in Egypt, New Cairo 11835, Egypt.

Prosthetic arms are designed to assist amputated individuals in the performance 
of the activities of daily life. Brain machine interfaces are currently employed 
to enhance the accuracy as well as number of control commands for upper limb 
prostheses. However, the motion prediction for prosthetic arms and the 
rehabilitation of amputees suffering from transhumeral amputations is limited. 
In this paper, functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS)-based approach for 
the recognition of human intention for six upper limb motions is proposed. The 
data were extracted from the study of fifteen healthy subjects and three 
transhumeral amputees for elbow extension, elbow flexion, wrist pronation, wrist 
supination, hand open, and hand close. The fNIRS signals were acquired from the 
motor cortex region of the brain by the commercial NIRSport device. The acquired 
data samples were filtered using finite impulse response (FIR) filter. 
Furthermore, signal mean, signal peak and minimum values were computed as 
feature set. An artificial neural network (ANN) was applied to these data 
samples. The results show the likelihood of classifying the six arm actions with 
an accuracy of 78%. The attained results have not yet been reported in any 
identical study. These achieved fNIRS results for intention detection are 
promising and suggest that they can be applied for the real-time control of the 
transhumeral prosthesis.

DOI: 10.3390/s22030726
PMCID: PMC8837999
PMID: 35161473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


933. Sensors (Basel). 2022 Feb 5;22(3):1213. doi: 10.3390/s22031213.

Telehealth Secure Solution to Provide Childhood Obesity Monitoring.

Jiménez-García E(1), Murillo-Escobar MÁ(1), Fontecha-Diezma J(2), 
López-Gutiérrez RM(1), Cardoza-Avendaño L(1).

Author information:
(1)Engineering, Architecture and Design Faculty, Autonomous University of Baja 
California (UABC), Ensenada 22860, Baja California, Mexico.
(2)Department of Information Systems and Technologies, University of Castilla-La 
Mancha, 13071 Ciudad Real, Spain.

Childhood obesity causes not only medical and psychosocial problems, it also 
reduces the life expectancy of the adults that they will become. On a large 
scale, obese adults adversely affect labor markets and the gross domestic 
product of countries. Monitoring the growth charts of children helps to maintain 
their body weight within healthy parameters according to the World Health 
Organization. Modern technologies allow the use of telehealth to carry out 
weight control programs and monitoring to verify children's compliance with the 
daily recommendations for risk factors that can be promoters of obesity, such as 
insufficient physical activity and insufficient sleep hours. In this work, we 
propose a secure remote monitoring and supervision scheme of physical activity 
and sleep hours for the children based on telehealth, multi-user networks, 
chaotic encryption, and spread spectrum, which, to our knowledge, is the first 
attempt to consider this service for safe pediatric telemedicine. In 
experimental results, we adapted a recent encryption algorithm in the literature 
for the proposed monitoring scheme using the assessment of childhood obesity as 
an application case in a multi-user network to securely send and receive 
fictitious parameters on childhood obesity of five users through the Internet by 
using just one communication channel. The results show that all the monitored 
parameters can be transmitted securely, achieving high sensitivity against 
secret key, enough secret key space, high resistance against noise interference, 
and 4.99 Mb/sec in computational simulations. The proposed scheme can be used to 
monitor childhood obesity in secure telehealth application.

DOI: 10.3390/s22031213
PMCID: PMC8840740
PMID: 35161955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


934. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Jan 19;19(3):1071. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19031071.

The Family Is My Priority: How Motherhood Frames Participation in Physical 
Activity in a Group of Mothers Living in a Low Socioeconomic Status Area.

Wittels P(1), Kay T(2), Mansfield L(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences, Brunel University London, 
Uxbridge UB8 3PH, UK.
(2)Independent Researcher, Leicestershire LE87 2GA, UK.

Socioeconomic status (SES) is known to influence strongly both life expectancy 
and healthy life expectancy. Whilst there are multiple factors with complex 
interactions that provide the explanation for this observation, differences in 
the uptake of physical activity between high and low SES groups play a role. 
This in-depth qualitative study set out to understand the response of a group of 
mothers with young children living in a low SES area of a London (UK) borough to 
the current physical activity guidance and to investigate whether existing and 
established interventions based on behavior change are appropriate for this 
group. A series of three in depth interviews was carried out with the mothers (n 
= 20) over a period of 16 months, and the data collected were analyzed 
thematically. Four main themes were identified: (1) mothering comes before 
exercise; (2) mothers are a special case; (3) alone or together; and (4) 
facilities fail mothers. The mothers were unsure about the benefits of exercise, 
whether it was relevant for them and how to accommodate exercise alongside their 
mothering responsibilities. Family and peer group could be both a barrier and a 
facilitator to participation in physical activity. Without an in depth 
understanding of the role of physical activity in the lives of mothers of young 
children, behavior change-based public interventions are likely to fail to meet 
the needs of this group. A reduction in the current health inequities will only 
be possible when the needs of the mothers are acknowledged and used as the basis 
of appropriate public health guidance.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19031071
PMCID: PMC8833933
PMID: 35162095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


935. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Jan 22;19(3):1223. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19031223.

Prevalence of Female Athlete Triad Risk Factors among Female International 
Volunteers and College Age-Matched Controls.

Freire AN(1), Brown KN(2), Fleischer SH(1), Eggett DL(3), Creer AR(4), Graf 
MI(2), Dyckman J(5), Turley JM(6), Fullmer S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, Dietetics & Food Sciences, College of Life Sciences, 
Brigham Young University, Provo, UT 84602, USA.
(2)Department of Nutrition, Dietetics & Food Sciences, College of Agricultural 
and Applied Sciences, Utah State University, Logan, UT 84322, USA.
(3)Department of Statistics, College of Physical and Mathematical Sciences, 
Brigham Young University, Provo, UT 84602, USA.
(4)Department of Exercise Science & Outdoor Recreation, College of Science, Utah 
Valley University, Orem, UT 84058, USA.
(5)Home and Community Department, Utah State University Extension, Logan, UT 
84322, USA.
(6)Department of Exercise & Nutrition Sciences, Moyes College of Education, 
Weber State University, Ogden, UT 84408, USA.

This study retrospectively compared the prevalence of factors related to the 
female athlete triad (low energy availability, secondary amenorrhea (SA), low 
bone mineral density (BMD)), and post-study BMD of female college students and 
female international volunteer missionaries (volunteers). Female college 
students (21-26 years) completed a survey that retrospectively assessed an 
18-month study period (volunteer service or first 18 months of college); Diet 
History Questionnaire III (DHQ III) and Dual-Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA) 
scan were optional. One-way ANOVAs and chi-squared distributions assessed group 
differences. Logistic regression assessed covariates of SA and BMD; 
corresponding odds ratios (OR) and confidence intervals (CI) were calculated. 
Statistical significance was set at p < 0.001. 3683 participants (58.8% 
volunteers, 31.5% non-volunteers, 9.8% others) provided complete survey data; 
246 completed the DHQ III, and 640 had a post-study DXA scan. Volunteers had 
higher metabolic equivalent (MET) hours than non-volunteers and others (p < 
0.001), and higher prevalence of food insecurity (p < 0.001) and SA (p < 0.001). 
Volunteers had higher odds of SA (OR = 2.17, CI = 1.75-2.62) than 
non-volunteers. Weight loss, body satisfaction, "other" weight loss methods, 
increased MET hours, and vomiting during the study period increased 
participants' odds of SA. Participants' average BMD Z-scores were within the 
expected range at all sites, with no significant group differences. Volunteers' 
higher MET hours and higher prevalence of food insecurity and SA did not result 
in significantly lower post-study period BMD.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19031223
PMCID: PMC8834590
PMID: 35162245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


936. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Jan 28;19(3):1498. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19031498.

Social Determinants of Health and Depression among African American Adults: A 
Scoping Review of Current Research.

Yelton B(1), Friedman DB(1)(2), Noblet S(1)(3), Lohman MC(2)(4), Arent MA(1), 
Macauda MM(1)(5), Sakhuja M(1), Leith KH(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Promotion, Education, and Behavior, Arnold School of 
Public Health, University of South Carolina, 915 Greene Street, Columbia, SC 
29208, USA.
(2)Office for the Study of Aging, Arnold School of Public Health, University of 
South Carolina, 915 Greene Street, Columbia, SC 29208, USA.
(3)Prevention Research Center, Department of Health Promotion, Education and 
Behavior, Arnold School of Public Health, University of South Carolina, 915 
Greene Street, Columbia, SC 29208, USA.
(4)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Arnold School of Public Health, 
University of South Carolina, 915 Greene Street, Columbia, SC 29208, USA.
(5)Center for Applied Research and Evaluation, Arnold School of Public Health, 
University of South Carolina, 915 Greene Street, Columbia, SC 29208, USA.

Depression in the United States (US) is increasing across all races and 
ethnicities and is attributed to multiple social determinants of health (SDOH). 
For members of historically marginalized races and ethnicities, depression is 
often underreported and undertreated, and can present as more severe. Limited 
research explores multiple SDOH and depression among African American adults in 
the US. Guided by Healthy People (HP) 2030, and using cross-disciplinary mental 
health terminology, we conducted a comprehensive search to capture studies 
specific to African American adults in the US published after 2016. We applied 
known scoping review methodology and followed Preferred Reporting Items for 
Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) 
guidelines. From 12,315 initial results, 60 studies were included in our final 
sample. Most studies explored the HP 2030 Social and Community Context domain, 
with a heavy focus on discrimination and social support; no studies examined 
Health Care Access and Quality. Researchers typically utilized cross-sectional, 
secondary datasets; no qualitative studies were included. We recommend research 
that comprehensively examines mental health risk and protective factors over the 
life course within, not just between, populations to inform tailored health 
promotion and public policy interventions for improving SDOH and reducing racial 
and ethnic health disparities.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19031498
PMCID: PMC8834771
PMID: 35162519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


937. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Jan 29;19(3):1530. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19031530.

Social Determinants of Remaining Life Expectancy at Age 60: A District-Level 
Analysis in Germany.

Siegel A(1), Schug JF(1), Rieger MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Occupational and Social Medicine and Health Services Research, 
University Hospital Tübingen, Wilhelmstr. 27, 72074 Tübingen, Germany.

Remaining life expectancy at age 60 (in short: RLE) is an important indicator of 
the health status of a population's elders. Until now, RLE has not been 
thoroughly investigated at the district level in Germany. In this study we 
analyzed, based on recent publicly available data (2015-2017), and for men and 
women separately, how large the RLE differences were in Germany across the 401 
districts. Furthermore, we examined a wide range of potential social 
determinants in terms of their bivariate and multivariate (i.e., partial) impact 
on men's and women's RLE. Men's district-level RLE ranged between 19.89 and 
24.32 years, women's district-level RLE between 23.67 and 27.16 years. The best 
single predictor both for men's and women's RLE at district level was 
'proportion of employees with academic degree' with standardized partial 
regression coefficients of 0.42 (men) and 0.51 (women). Second and third in rank 
were classic economic predictors, such as 'household income' (men), 'proportion 
of elder with financial elder support' (women), and 'unemployment' (men and 
women). Indicators expressing the availability of medical services and staffing 
levels of nursing homes and services had at best a marginal partial impact. This 
study contributes to the growing body of evidence that a population's 
educational level is a decisive determinant of population health resp. life 
expectancy in contemporary industrialized societies.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19031530
PMCID: PMC8835464
PMID: 35162553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


938. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Jan 31;19(3):1622. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19031622.

Effectiveness and Cost-Effectiveness of Non-Pharmacological Interventions among 
Chinese Adults with Prediabetes: A Protocol for Network Meta-Analysis and 
CHIME-Modeled Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.

Yin Y(1)(2), Tu Y(1)(2), Zhao M(1)(2), Tang W(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacoeconomics, School of International Pharmaceutical 
Business, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing 211198, China.
(2)Center for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research, China Pharmaceutical 
University, Nanjing 211198, China.

Patients with prediabetes who are at a high risk of progressing to diabetes are 
recommended early-stage intervention, according to guidelines. 
Non-pharmacological interventions are effective and cost-effective for glycemic 
control compared with medicines. We aim to explore which non-pharmacological 
interventions have the greatest potential effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, and 
feasibility in community-based diabetes management in China. We will perform a 
systematic review and network meta-analysis to compare the effectiveness of 
included non-pharmacological interventions, then use Chinese Hong Kong 
Integrated Modeling and Evaluation (CHIME) to model the yearly incidence of 
complications, costs, and health utility for the lifetime. Published studies 
(only randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and cluster RCTs with at least one 
study arm of any non-pharmacological intervention) will be retrieved and 
screened using several databases. Primary outcomes included blood glucose, 
glycated hemoglobin, incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus, and achievement of 
normoglycemia. Health utilities and cost parameters are to be calculated using a 
societal perspective and integrated into the modified CHIME model to achieve 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) estimates and lifetime costs. QALYs and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio will then be used to determine 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, respectively. Our study findings can 
inform improved diabetes management in countries with no intervention programs 
for these patients.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19031622
PMCID: PMC8835234
PMID: 35162645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


939. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Feb 8;19(3):1879. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19031879.

The Role of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Amid the COVID-19 
Pandemic: What Lessons Are We Learning on 4IR and the Sustainable Development 
Goals.

Mhlanga D(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Business and Economics, University of Johannesburg, Johannesburg 
2006, South Africa.

The COVID-19 pandemic came with disruptions in every aspect of human existence, 
with all the sectors of the economies of the world affected greatly. In the 
health sector, the pandemic halted and reversed progress in health and 
subsequently shortened life expectancy, especially in developing and 
underdeveloped nations. On the other hand, machine learning and artificial 
intelligence contributed a great deal to the handling of the pandemic globally. 
Therefore, the current study aimed to assess the role played by artificial 
intelligence and machine learning in addressing the dangers posed by the 
COVID-19 pandemic, as well as extrapolate the lessons on the fourth industrial 
