baseline, 3, 12 and 24 months. Linear regression modelling examined changes in 
Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale between trial arms.
RESULTS: At 3 months, there was a -0.6 point difference (95% confidence interval 
[CI], -1.1, -0.1) in depression score and -0.1 difference (95% CI, -0.7, 0.4) in 
anxiety score between group-based weight management programme and self-help. At 
subsequent time points there was no consistent evidence of a difference in 
depression or anxiety scores between trial arms. There was no evidence that 
depression or anxiety worsened at any time point.
CONCLUSIONS: There was no evidence of harm to depression or anxiety symptoms as 
a result of attending a group-based weight loss programme. There was a transient 
reduction in symptoms of depression, but not anxiety, compared to self-help. 
This effect equates to less than 1 point out of 21 on the Hospital Anxiety and 
Depression Scale and is not clinically significant.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0263228
PMCID: PMC8812921
PMID: 35113940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal’s policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: PA and SAJ are 
investigators on an investigator-initiated trial funded by Cambridge Weight 
Plan.PA has presented at two symposia on behalf of the Royal College of General 
Practitioners that were sponsored by Novo Nordisk. ALA is lead investigator on 
two publicly funded investigator-initiated trials where the intervention is 
provided by WW at no cost. None of these activities led to payments to the 
individuals named. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS One policies on 
sharing data and materials.


770. Curr Probl Cardiol. 2022 May;47(5):101133. doi:
10.1016/j.cpcardiol.2022.101133.  Epub 2022 Jan 31.

The Keystones of Right Ventricular Arrhythmogenic Cardiomyopathy-Induced 
Morphological Disarrangement.

Avagimyan A(1), Kakturskiy L(2), Gogiashvili L(3), Aznauryan A(4).

Author information:
(1)Lecturer of Pathological Anatomy and Clinical Morphology Department, Yerevan 
State Medical University after M. Heratsi, Yerevan, Armenia. Electronic address: 
dr.ashotavagimyan@gmail.com.
(2)Scientific Director FSBI Research Institute of Human Morphology, Moscow, 
Russia.
(3)Head of Pathology Department, I. Javakhishvili Tbilisi State University, 
Tbilisi, Georgia.
(4)Histology Department, Yerevan State Medical University after M. Heratsi, 
Yerevan, Armenia.

Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy is an urgent problem of modern 
cardiology. This myocardial remodeling manifests various desmosomopathies, 
channelopathies, and other mutations resulting in a violation of the coordinated 
heart work, particularly the myocardium. The incidence of this cardiomyopathy is 
not significant. Still, it is worth noting that athletes are at an increased 
risk of developing this disease, emphasizing the importance of studying this 
topic and its relevance from cardiologists and sports physicians. Moreover, the 
clinical pattern of this disease is heterogeneous. This pathology requires 
strengthening control and attention of medical personnel and constant 
improvement and optimization of diagnostic methods and treatment protocols. In 
this article, the pathophysiological mechanisms, molecular genetic aspects, and 
the dynamics of morphofunctional changes are represented in detail. 
Understanding the mechanisms of etiopathogenesis and the features of 
morphological changes observed in this cardiomyopathy and its more detailed 
study is fundamental in developing modern treatment methods to improve patients' 
quality and life expectancy.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cpcardiol.2022.101133
PMID: 35114294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Future Oncol. 2022 Apr;18(13):1583-1594. doi: 10.2217/fon-2021-1509. Epub
2022  Feb 4.

Indirect treatment comparisons of avapritinib versus midostaurin for patients 
with advanced systemic mastocytosis.

Pilkington H(1), Smith S(1), Roskell N(1), Iannazzo S(2).

Author information:
(1)BresMed Health Solutions, Manchester, M2 1DH, UK.
(2)Blueprint Medicines, Zug, 6300, Switzerland.

Objective: This research aimed to compare the relative efficacy of avapritinib 
versus midostaurin for patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis. Method: A 
systematic literature review was performed to identify relevant evidence. 
Unanchored matching-adjusted indirect comparisons were conducted for overall 
survival (OS), overall response rate (ORR) and complete remission (CR). Results: 
The systematic literature review identified the clinical trials EXPLORER and 
PATHFINDER (investigating avapritinib) and D2201 and A2213 (investigating 
midostaurin). The avapritinib versus midostaurin adjusted hazard ratio for 
OS was 0.44 (95% CI: 0.25-0.76), and the adjusted odds ratios for ORR and CR 
were 4.06 (95% CI: 3.09-5.33) and 9.56 (95% CI: 0.97-93.81), respectively. 
Conclusion: The results suggest that avapritinib improves survival and response 
(ORR and CR) compared with midostaurin.

Plain Language Summary: Systemic mastocytosis is a rare blood disorder caused by 
the build-up of too many abnormal mast cells, a type of white blood cell, in the 
skin and organs. Patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis have a low life 
expectancy and limited treatment options. This research aimed to compare the 
effectiveness of two recent and innovative treatments (called avapritinib and 
midostaurin) in extending life expectancy and decreasing mast cells and organ 
damage. As avapritinib and midostaurin were not investigated in the same 
clinical studies, it was necessary to compare the two treatments using the 
results from studies of each individual treatment. The published evidence used 
to support this comparison was systematically searched for and consisted of four 
clinical studies: the EXPLORER and PATHFINDER studies (investigating 
avapritinib) and D2201 and A2213 studies (investigating midostaurin). An 
indirect comparison between the studies was made that adjusted for differences 
in key patient characteristics. The results suggest that compared with 
midostaurin, avapritinib has the potential to extend life expectancy and 
decrease disease burden.

DOI: 10.2217/fon-2021-1509
PMID: 35114819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. BMC Public Health. 2022 Feb 3;22(1):218. doi: 10.1186/s12889-021-12400-5.

The economic and health burden of stroke among younger adults in Australia from 
a societal perspective.

Tan E(1), Gao L(2), Collier JM(3), Ellery F(3), Dewey HM(4), Bernhardt J(3); 
AVERT Trial Collaboration Group; Moodie M(2).

Author information:
(1)Deakin Health Economics, Institute for Health Transformation, Deakin 
University, Geelong, Australia. elise.tan@deakin.edu.au.
(2)Deakin Health Economics, Institute for Health Transformation, Deakin 
University, Geelong, Australia.
(3)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of Melbourne, 
Heidelberg, Australia.
(4)Eastern Health Clinical School, Monash University, Box Hill, Australia.

Erratum in
    BMC Public Health. 2022 Feb 23;22(1):383.

BACKGROUND: To estimate the short term (5 years) and long term (30 years) 
economic burden of stroke among younger adults (18-64 years), and to calculate 
the loss of health-related quality of life in these individuals, in Australia.
METHODS: A Markov microsimulation model was built to simulate incidence of 
stroke among younger adults in Australia. Younger adults with stroke commenced 
in the model via health states defined by the modified Rankin Scale at 12 months 
from the AVERT study (A Very Early Rehabilitation Trial), and transitioned 
through these health states. Costs in Australian dollars (AUD) were measured 
from a societal perspective for a 2018 reference year and categorised into 
medical, non-medical and indirect costs. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
performed to test the robustness around the cost of illness estimates. The loss 
of health-related quality of life due to stroke among younger adults was 
calculated by determining the difference in estimated quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) between the stroke population and the general population. This was 
determined by multiplying the predicted remaining life years for the modelled 
stroke cohort and the age-matched general population, by their corresponding 
age-dependent utilities.
RESULTS: The economic burden of stroke among younger adults was estimated to be 
AUD2.0 billion over 5 years, corresponding to a mean of $149,180 per stroke 
patient. Over 30 years, the economic impact was AUD3.4 billion, equating to a 
mean of $249,780 per case. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses revealed a mean 
cost per patient of $153,410 in the short term, and a mean cost per patient of 
$273,496 in the long term. Compared to the age-matched general population, 
younger adults with stroke experienced a loss of 4.58 life years and 9.21 QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study suggests high economic and health burden 
of stroke among younger adults and highlights the need for preventive 
interventions targeting this age group.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ACTRN12606000185561 , retrospectively registered.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-021-12400-5
PMCID: PMC8811989
PMID: 35114974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


773. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2022 Feb 3;20(1):18. doi:
10.1186/s12955-022-01918-w.

Adolescent valuation of CARIES-QC-U: a child-centred preference-based measure of 
dental caries.

Rogers HJ(1), Sagabiel J(2), Marshman Z(3), Rodd HD(3), Rowen D(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Dental Sciences, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, UK. helen.rogers@newcastle.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Economics, Swedish University of Agricultural Economics, 
Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)Unit of Oral Health, Dentistry and Society, School of Clinical Dentistry, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(4)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: This study develops an adolescent value set for a child-centred 
dental caries-specific measure of oral health-related quality of life (OHRQoL) 
based upon CARIES-QC (Caries Impacts and Experiences Questionnaire for 
Children). This study develops a new approach to valuing child health by 
eliciting adolescent preferences and anchoring these onto the 1-0 full 
health-dead QALY (quality adjusted life year) scale using ordinal adult 
preferences.
METHODS: Two online surveys were created to elicit preferences for the CARIES-QC 
classification system. The first comprised best-worst scaling (BWS) tasks for 
completion by adolescents aged 11-16 years. The second comprised discrete choice 
experiment tasks with a duration attribute (DCETTO) for completion by adults 
aged over 18 years. Preferences were modelled using the conditional logit model. 
Mapping regressions anchored the adolescent BWS data onto the QALY scale using 
adult DCETTO values, since the BWS survey data alone cannot generate anchored 
values.
RESULTS: 723 adolescents completed the BWS survey and 626 adults completed the 
DCETTO survey. The samples were representative of UK adolescent and adult 
populations. Fully consistent and robust models were produced for both BWS and 
DCETTO data. BWS preferences were mapped onto DCETTO values, resulting utility 
estimates for each health state defined by the classification system.
CONCLUSION: This is the first measure with predetermined scoring based on 
preferences to be developed specifically for use in child oral health research, 
and uses a novel technique to generate a value set using adolescent preferences. 
The estimates can be used to generate QALYs in economic evaluations of 
interventions to improve children's oral health.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12955-022-01918-w
PMCID: PMC8812216
PMID: 35115013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.


774. Health Technol Assess. 2022 Jan;26(7):1-286. doi: 10.3310/UGEZ4120.

Biomarkers for assessing acute kidney injury for people who are being considered 
for admission to critical care: a systematic review and cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Brazzelli M(1), Aucott L(1), Aceves-Martins M(1), Robertson C(1), Jacobsen E(2), 
Imamura M(1), Poobalan A(3), Manson P(1), Scotland G(1)(2), Kaye C(4), Sawhney 
S(3), Boyers D(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(2)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(3)Institute of Applied Health Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(4)Anaesthetics and Intensive Care Medicine, NHS Grampian, Aberdeen Royal 
Infirmary, Aberdeen, UK.

BACKGROUND: Acute kidney injury is a serious complication that occurs in the 
context of an acute critical illness or during a postoperative period. Earlier 
detection of acute kidney injury may facilitate strategies to preserve renal 
function, prevent further disease progression and reduce mortality. Acute kidney 
injury diagnosis relies on a rise in serum creatinine levels and/or fall in 
urine output; however, creatinine is an imperfect marker of kidney function. 
There is interest in the performance of novel biomarkers used in conjunction 
with existing clinical assessment, such as NephroCheck® (Astute Medical, Inc., 
San Diego, CA, USA), ARCHITECT® urine neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin 
(NGAL) (Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, IL, USA), and urine and plasma 
BioPorto NGAL (BioPorto Diagnostics A/S, Hellerup, Denmark) immunoassays. If 
reliable, these biomarkers may enable earlier identification of acute kidney 
injury and enhance management of those with a modifiable disease course.
OBJECTIVE: The objective was to evaluate the role of biomarkers for assessing 
acute kidney injury in critically ill patients who are considered for admission 
to critical care.
DATA SOURCES: Major electronic databases, conference abstracts and ongoing 
studies were searched up to June 2019, with no date restrictions. MEDLINE, 
EMBASE, Health Technology Assessment Database, Cumulative Index to Nursing and 
Allied Health Literature, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Web of 
Science, World Health Organization Global Index Medicus, EU Clinical Trials 
Register, International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov 
were searched.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review and meta-analysis were conducted to evaluate 
the performance of novel biomarkers for the detection of acute kidney injury and 
prediction of other relevant clinical outcomes. Random-effects models were 
adopted to combine evidence. A decision tree was developed to evaluate costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years accrued as a result of changes in short-term 
outcomes (up to 90 days), and a Markov model was used to extrapolate results 
over a lifetime time horizon.
RESULTS: A total of 56 studies (17,967 participants), mainly prospective cohort 
studies, were selected for inclusion. No studies addressing the clinical impact 
of the use of biomarkers on patient outcomes, compared with standard care, were 
identified. The main sources of bias across studies were a lack of information 
on blinding and the optimal threshold for NGAL. For prediction studies, the 
reporting of statistical details was limited. Although the meta-analyses results 
showed the potential ability of these biomarkers to detect and predict acute 
kidney injury, there were limited data to establish any causal link with 
longer-term health outcomes and there were considerable clinical differences 
across studies. Cost-effectiveness results were highly uncertain, largely 
speculative and should be interpreted with caution in the light of the limited 
evidence base. To illustrate the current uncertainty, 15 scenario analyses were 
undertaken. Incremental quality-adjusted life-years were very low across all 
scenarios, ranging from positive to negative increments. Incremental costs were 
also small, in general, with some scenarios generating cost savings with tests 
dominant over standard care (cost savings with quality-adjusted life-year 
gains). However, other scenarios generated results whereby the candidate tests 
were more costly with fewer quality-adjusted life-years, and were thus dominated 
by standard care. Therefore, it was not possible to determine a plausible 
base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for the tests, compared with 
standard care.
LIMITATIONS: Clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness results were hampered 
by the considerable heterogeneity across identified studies. Economic model 
predictions should also be interpreted cautiously because of the unknown impact 
of NGAL-guided treatment, and uncertain causal links between changes in acute 
kidney injury status and changes in health outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Current evidence is insufficient to make a full appraisal of the 
role and economic value of these biomarkers and to determine whether or not they 
provide cost-effective improvements in the clinical outcomes of acute kidney 
injury patients.
FUTURE WORK: Future studies should evaluate the targeted use of biomarkers among 
specific patient populations and the clinical impact of their routine use on 
patient outcomes and management.
STUDY REGISTRATION: This study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42019147039.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research 
(NIHR) Evidence Synthesis programme and will be published in full in Health 
Technology Assessment; Vol. 26, No. 7. See the NIHR Journals Library website for 
further project information.

Plain Language Summary: Among people who are very ill or have undergone surgery, 
the kidneys may suddenly stop working properly. This is known as acute kidney 
injury. Acute kidney injury can progress to serious kidney problems and can be 
fatal. Currently, to decide whether or not acute kidney injury is present, 
doctors use the level of creatinine (a waste product filtered by the kidneys) in 
the blood or urine. However, creatinine levels are not a precise indicator and 
they can take hours or days to rise; this may lead to delays in acute kidney 
injury recognition. Novel biomarkers may help doctors to recognise the presence 
of acute kidney injury earlier and treat patients promptly. This work evaluates 
current evidence on the use of biomarkers for acute kidney injury with respect 
to clinical usefulness and costs. We reviewed the current evidence on the use of 
biomarkers for assessing the risk of acute kidney injury among people who are 
very ill, and assessed whether or not the evidence was of good value for the 
NHS. We assessed the ARCHITECT® urine neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin 
(NGAL) (Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, IL, USA), urine and plasma BioPorto 
NGAL (BioPorto Diagnostics A/S, Hellerup, Denmark) and urine NephroCheck® 
(Astute Medical, Inc., San Diego, CA, USA) biomarkers. We checked studies 
published up to June 2019 and found 56 relevant studies (17,967 patients). Most 
studies were conducted outside the UK and investigated people already admitted 
to critical care. We combined the results of the studies and found that 
NephroCheck and NGAL biomarkers might be useful in identifying acute kidney 
injury or pre-empting acute kidney injury in some circumstances. However, 
studies differed in patient characteristics, clinical setting and the way in 
which biomarkers were used. This could explain why the number of people 
correctly identified and missed by the biomarkers varied across studies. Hence, 
we do not completely trust the pooled results. We also found that acute kidney 
injury is associated with substantial costs for the NHS, but there was 
insufficient good-quality evidence to decide which biomarker (if any) offered 
the best value for money.

DOI: 10.3310/UGEZ4120
PMCID: PMC8859769
PMID: 35115079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Can J Diabetes. 2022 Mar;46(2):165-170. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjd.2021.08.003.
Epub  2021 Aug 14.

Economic Analysis of a Diabetes Health Coaching Intervention for Adults Living 
With Type 2 Diabetes: A Single-Centre Evaluation From a Community-Based 
Randomized Controlled Trial.

O'Reilly DJ(1), Blackhouse G(2), Bowen JM(3), Brozic A(4), Agema P(5), Punthakee 
Z(6), McInnes N(6), Gerstein HC(7), Sherifali D(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence and Impact, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; Pharmacy Consulting, 
Health Benefits Management, TELUS Health, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Programs for 
Assessment of Technology in Health, Research Institute of St. Joe's Hamilton, 
St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence and Impact, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; Programs for 
Assessment of Technology in Health, Research Institute of St. Joe's Hamilton, 
St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence and Impact, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; Toronto Health 
Economics and Technology Assessment Collaborative, University Health Network 
Research Institute, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Kitchener Downtown Community Health Centre, Kitchener, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Langs Community Health Centre, Cambridge, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; 
Population Health Research Institute, Hamilton Health Sciences, Hamilton, 
Ontario, Canada; Diabetes Care and Research Program, Hamilton Health Sciences, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; 
Population Health Research Institute, Hamilton Health Sciences, Hamilton, 
Ontario, Canada.
(8)Diabetes Care and Research Program, Hamilton Health Sciences, Hamilton, 
Ontario, Canada; School of Nursing, Faculty of Health Sciences. McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: dsherif@mcmaster.ca.

BACKGROUND: A recent randomized controlled trial demonstrated that a 
community-based, telephone-delivered diabetes health coaching intervention was 
effective for improving diabetes management. Our aim in this study was to 
determine whether this intervention is also cost-effective.
METHODS: An economic evaluation, in the form of a cost-utility analysis (CUA), 
was used to assess the cost-effectiveness of the coaching intervention from a 
public payer's perspective. All direct medical costs, as well as intervention 
implementation, were included. The outcome measure for the CUA was 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Uncertainty of cost-effectiveness results was 
estimated using nonparametric bootstraps of patient-level costs and QALYs in the 
coaching and control arms. A cost-effectiveness acceptability curve was used to 
express this uncertainty as the probability that diabetes health coaching is 
cost-effective across a range of values of willingness-to-pay thresholds for a 
QALY.
RESULTS: The results show that subjects in the coaching arm incurred higher 
overall costs (in Canadian dollars) than subjects in the control arm ($1,581 vs 
$1,086, respectively) and incurred 0.02 more QALYs. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of the diabetes health coaching intervention compared 
with usual care was found to be $35,129 per QALY, with probabilities of 67% and 
82% that diabetes health coaching would be cost-effective at a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $50,000 per QALY and $100,000 per QALY, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: A community-based, telephone-delivered diabetes health coaching 
intervention is cost-effective.

Copyright © 2021 Canadian Diabetes Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjd.2021.08.003
PMID: 35115250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2022 Mar;17(3):385-394. doi: 10.2215/CJN.13030921.
Epub  2022 Feb 3.

The Cost-Effectiveness of Belimumab and Voclosporin for Patients with Lupus 
Nephritis in the United States.

Mandrik O(1), Fotheringham J(1), Ren S(1), Tice JA(2), Chapman RH(3), Stevenson 
MD(1), Pearson SD(3), Herron-Smith S(3), Agboola F(3), Thokala P(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economic and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
The University of Sheffield, Sheffield, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, California.
(3)Institute for Clinical and Economic Review, Boston, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2022 Mar;17(3):340-341.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Despite existing therapies, people with lupus 
nephritis progress to kidney failure and have reduced life expectancy. Belimumab 
and voclosporin are two new disease-modifying therapies recently approved for 
the treatment of lupus nephritis.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS: A de novo economic model was 
developed to estimate the cost-effectiveness of these therapies, including the 
following health states: "complete response," "partial response," and "active 
disease" defined by eGFR and proteinuria changes, kidney failure, and death. 
Short-term data and mean cohort characteristics were sourced from pivotal 
clinical trials of belimumab (the Belimumab International Study in Lupus 
Nephritis) and voclosporin (the Aurinia Urinary Protection Reduction 
Active-Lupus with Voclosporin trial and Aurinia Renal Response in Active Lupus 
With Voclosporin). Risk of mortality and kidney failure were on the basis of 
survival modeling using published Kaplan-Meier data. Each drug was compared with 
the standard of care as represented by the comparator arm in its respective 
pivotal trial(s) using US health care sector perspective, with a societal 
perspective also explored.
RESULTS: In the health care perspective probabilistic analysis, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio for belimumab compared with its control arm was 
estimated to be approximately $95,000 per quality-adjusted life year. The 
corresponding incremental ratio for voclosporin compared with its control arm 
was approximately $150,000 per quality-adjusted life year. Compared with their 
respective standard care arms, the probabilities of belimumab and voclosporin 
being cost effective at a threshold of $150,000 per quality-adjusted life year 
were 69% and 49%, respectively. Cost-effectiveness was dependent on assumptions 
made regarding survival in response states, costs and utilities in active 
disease, and the utilities in response states. In the analysis from a societal 
perspective, the incremental ratio for belimumab was estimated to be 
approximately $66,000 per quality-adjusted life year, and the incremental ratio 
for voclosporin was estimated to be approximately $133,000 per quality-adjusted 
life year.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with their respective standard care arms, belimumab but 
not voclosporin met willingness-to-pay thresholds of $100,000 per 
quality-adjusted life year. Despite potential clinical superiority in the 
informing trials, there remains high uncertainty around the cost-effectiveness 
of voclosporin.

Copyright © 2022 by the American Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.13030921
PMCID: PMC8975035
PMID: 35115304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. BMJ Open. 2022 Feb 3;12(2):e053108. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-053108.

Optimising Access Surgery in Senior Haemodialysis Patients (OASIS): study 
protocol for a multicentre randomised controlled trial.

Heggen BD(1), Ramspek CL(2), van der Bogt KEA(3)(4), de Haan MW(5), Hemmelder 
MH(6), Hiligsmann MJC(7), van Loon MM(8), Rotmans JI(9), Tordoir JHM(8), Dekker 
FW(2), Schurink GWH(8), Snoeijs MGJ(8); OASIS study group.

Collaborators: Molegraaf MJ, Cuypers PW, Nio D, Arts CH, Verhave JC, Ünlü Ç, 
Vriens PW, Laverman GD, Bode AS, Weijmer MC, Govaert B, Adema AY, Welten GM, 
Reijnen MM, Groeneveld MJ, Brink HS, Net JBV, Kuijper A, Peters HP, Lijkwan MA, 
Willigendael EM, Nieuwenhuizen RCV, Kruse RR, Schrama YC, Groot KA, Farhat K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Maastricht University Medical Centre+, 
Maastricht, Netherlands boudewijn.heggen@mumc.nl.
(2)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Leiden University Medical Centre, 
Leiden, Netherlands.
(3)Department of Surgery, Haaglanden Medical Centre, The Hague, Netherlands.
(4)Department of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, Netherlands.
(5)Department of Radiology, Maastricht University Medical Centre+, Maastricht, 
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Nephrology, Maastricht 
University Medical Centre+, Maastricht, Netherlands.
(7)Department of Health Services Research, CAPHRI Care and Public Health 
Research Institute, Maastricht University, Maastricht, Netherlands.
(8)Department of Vascular Surgery, Maastricht University Medical Centre+, 
Maastricht, Netherlands.
(9)Department of Internal Medicine, Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, 
Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Current evidence on vascular access strategies for haemodialysis 
patients is based on observational studies that are at high risk of selection 
bias. For elderly patients, autologous arteriovenous fistulas that are typically 
created in usual care may not be the best option because a significant 
proportion of fistulas either fail to mature or remain unused. In addition, 
long-term complications associated with arteriovenous grafts and central venous 
catheters may be less relevant when considering the limited life expectancy of 
these patients. Therefore, we designed the Optimising Access Surgery in Senior 
Haemodialysis Patients (OASIS) trial to determine the best strategy for vascular 
access creation in elderly haemodialysis patients.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: OASIS is a multicentre randomised controlled trial with an 
equal participant allocation in three treatment arms. Patients aged 70 years or 
older who are expected to initiate haemodialysis treatment in the next 6 months 
or who have started haemodialysis urgently with a catheter will be enrolled. To 
detect and exclude patients with an unusually long life expectancy, we will use 
a previously published mortality prediction model after external validation. 
Participants allocated to the usual care arm will be treated according to 
current guidelines on vascular access creation and will undergo fistula 
creation. Participants allocated to one of the two intervention arms will 
undergo graft placement or catheter insertion. The primary outcome is the number 
of access-related interventions required for each patient-year of haemodialysis 
treatment. We will enrol 195 patients to have sufficient statistical power to 
detect an absolute decrease of 0.80 interventions per year.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Because of clinical equipoise, we believe it is 
justified to randomly allocate elderly patients to the different vascular access 
strategies. The study was approved by an accredited medical ethics review 
committee. The results will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications 
and will be implemented in clinical practice guidelines.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NL7933.
PROTOCOL VERSION AND DATE: V.5, 25 February 2021.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-053108
PMCID: PMC8814743
PMID: 35115352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


778. Obstet Gynecol. 2022 Mar 1;139(3):357-367. doi:
10.1097/AOG.0000000000004652.

Universal Hepatitis B Antibody Screening and Vaccination in Pregnancy: A 
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.

Prabhu M(1), Susich MK, Packer CH, Hersch AR, Riley LE, Caughey AB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Maternal Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York; the Division of Maternal Fetal 
Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, the School of Public Health, 
and the School of Medicine, Oregon Health & Science University, and Portland 
State University, Portland, Oregon; and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts.

Erratum in
    Obstet Gynecol. 2022 Apr 1;139(4):696. Hersch, Alyssa R [corrected to Hersh, 
Alyssa R].

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of universal screening for 
hepatitis B immunity and vaccination among pregnant women in the United States.
METHODS: We designed a decision-analytic model to evaluate the outcomes, costs, 
and cost effectiveness associated with universal hepatitis B virus (HBV) 
immunity screening in pregnancy with vaccination of susceptible individuals 
compared with no screening. A theoretical cohort of 3.6 million women, the 
approximate number of annual live births in the United States, was used. 
Outcomes included cases of HBV, hepatocellular carcinoma, decompensated 
cirrhosis, liver transplant and death, in addition to cost and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs). Model inputs were derived from the literature, and the 
willingness-to-pay threshold was $50,000 per QALY. Univariate sensitivity 
analyses and Monte Carlo simulation models were performed to evaluate the 
robustness of the results.
RESULTS: In a theoretical cohort of 3.6 million women, universal HBV immunity 
screening and vaccination resulted in 1,702 fewer cases of HBV, seven fewer 
cases of decompensated cirrhosis, four fewer liver transplants, and 11 fewer 
deaths over the life expectancy of a woman after pregnancy. Universal screening 
and vaccination were found to be cost effective, with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $1,890 per QALY. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated 
the model was robust even when the prevalence of HBV immunity was high and the 
annual risk of HBV acquisition low.
CONCLUSION: Among pregnant women in the United States, universal HBV immunity 
screening and vaccination of susceptible persons is cost effective compared with 
not routinely screening and vaccinating.

Copyright © 2022 by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. 
Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/AOG.0000000000004652
PMID: 35115449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Financial Disclosure Laura E. Riley received 
funding from UpToDate and donated to Maven (donation in her name to SMFM). The 
other authors did not report any potential conflicts of interest.


779. Front Neurosci. 2022 Jan 18;15:816300. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2021.816300. 
eCollection 2021.

Frailty Syndrome and Oxidative Stress as Possible Links Between Age-Related 
Hearing Loss and Alzheimer's Disease.

Alvarado JC(1), Fuentes-Santamaría V(1), Juiz JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Medicina, Instituto de Investigación en Discapacidades 
Neurológicas (IDINE), Universidad de Castilla-La Mancha, Albacete, Spain.

As it is well known, a worldwide improvement in life expectancy has taken place. 
This has brought an increase in chronic pathologies associated with aging. 
Cardiovascular, musculoskeletal, psychiatric, and neurodegenerative conditions 
are common in elderly subjects. As far as neurodegenerative diseases are 
concerned dementias and particularly, Alzheimer's disease (AD) occupy a central 
epidemiological position given their high prevalence and their profound negative 
impact on the quality of life and life expectancy. The amyloid cascade 
hypothesis partly explains the immediate cause of AD. However, limited 
therapeutical success based on this hypothesis suggests more complex remote 
mechanisms underlying its genesis and development. For instance, the strong 
association of AD with another irreversible neurodegenerative pathology, without 
curative treatment and complex etiology such as presbycusis, reaffirms the 
intricate nature of the etiopathogenesis of AD. Recently, oxidative stress and 
frailty syndrome have been proposed, independently, as key factors underlying 
the onset and/or development of AD and presbycusis. Therefore, the present 
review summarizes recent findings about the etiology of the above-mentioned 
neurodegenerative diseases, providing a critical view of the possible interplay 
among oxidative stress, frailty syndrome, AD and presbycusis, that may help to 
unravel the common mechanisms shared by both pathologies. This knowledge would 
help to design new possible therapeutic strategies that in turn, will improve 
the quality of life of these patients.

Copyright © 2022 Alvarado, Fuentes-Santamaría and Juiz.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2021.816300
PMCID: PMC8804094
PMID: 35115905

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


780. Front Psychol. 2022 Jan 18;12:717317. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2021.717317. 
eCollection 2021.

Self-Regulation in Preschool: Examining Its Factor Structure and Associations 
With Pre-academic Skills and Social-Emotional Competence.

Korucu I(1), Ayturk E(2), Finders JK(3), Schnur G(1), Bailey CS(1), Tominey 
SL(4), Schmitt SA(3).

Author information:
(1)Child Study Center, Yale University, New Haven, CT, United States.
(2)Department of Medical Social Sciences, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, 
United States.
(3)Department of Human Development and Family Studies, Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, IN, United States.
(4)Extension Family and Community Health Program, Oregon State University, 
Corvallis, OR, United States.

Self-regulation in early childhood is an important predictor of success across a 
variety of indicators in life, including health, well-being, and earnings. 
Although conceptually self-regulation has been defined as multifaceted, previous 
research has not investigated whether there is conceptual and empirical overlap 
between the factors that comprise self-regulation or if they are distinct. In 
this study, using a bifactor model, we tested the shared and unique variance 
among self-regulation constructs and prediction to pre-academic and 
social-emotional skills. The sample included 932 preschool children (M age = 48 
months, SD = 6.55; 49% female), their parents, and their teachers in the United 
States. Children's self-regulation was assessed using measures of executive 
function, behavioral self-regulation, and emotion regulation. The bifactor model 
demonstrated a common overarching self-regulation factor, as well as distinct 
executive function and emotion regulation factors. The common overarching 
self-regulation factor and executive function predicted children's pre-academic 
(i.e., mathematics and literacy) and social-emotional skills. The emotion 
regulation factor predicted children's social-emotional skills. Identifying the 
shared and unique aspects of self-regulation may have important implications for 
supporting children's regulatory skills as well as their success in school.

Copyright © 2022 Korucu, Ayturk, Finders, Schnur, Bailey, Tominey and Schmitt.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2021.717317
PMCID: PMC8803640
PMID: 35115979

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.781. Transl Cancer Res. 2021 Feb;10(2):1096-1118. doi: 10.21037/tcr-20-2589.

Urological complications after radiation therapy-nothing ventured, nothing 
gained: a Narrative Review.

Chorbińska J(1), Krajewski W(1), Zdrojowy R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology and Oncologic Urology, Wroclaw Medical University, 
Wrocław, Poland.

Radiation therapy along with chemotherapy and surgery are the three main 
treatment modalities used in oncology. The main disadvantage of radiotherapy is 
the fact that it affects both cancer and healthy cells located in the tumour 
area. As a consequence, different complications develop. A large proportion of 
cancers treated with radiotherapy are located in the lower abdomen and pelvis, 
which is why complications often involve the urinary tract. Due to the anatomy 
of these areas, urological complications occur not only after radiological 
treatment of urological cancers, but also after treatment of malignancies of the 
reproductive or digestive system. The most common radiation-induced 
complications include haemorrhagic cystitis, urethral and ureteral strictures, 
urinary fistulae, and secondary primary malignancies. Adverse events 
significantly degrade the quality of life of the patient, and in severe cases 
can be life threatening to the patient. Because of impaired tissue healing, the 
treatment of radiation urological complications is a challenge for urologists 
and often requires complicated reconstruction techniques. Continuous increase in 
the effectiveness of cancer treatments and the extension of patients' lives, 
make complications of radiation therapy an increasingly common clinical problem. 
The aim of this review is to present the pathophysiology, clinical presentation 
and methods of treatment for radiation-induced urological complications.

2021 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/tcr-20-2589
PMCID: PMC8798528
PMID: 35116437

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
http://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tcr-20-2589). The authors have no conflicts of 
interest to declare.


782. Transl Cancer Res. 2020 Apr;9(4):2618-2626. doi: 10.21037/tcr.2020.02.80.

Additional treatment prolonged survival of pulmonary artery sarcoma after 
surgical resection.

Xu L(1), Lu W(1), Li J(1), Wang C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Tumor Surgery, Zhejiang Cancer Hospital, Hangzhou 
310008, China.

BACKGROUND: Pulmonary artery sarcoma is too rare for a randomized controlled 
trial or cohort study. We aimed to perform a retrospective analysis on the 
therapeutic effect of adjuvant therapy on postoperative survival time.
METHODS: Medline and EMBASE database were searched for articles on pulmonary 
artery sarcoma published between 1923 and 2018. Age, gender, postoperative 
overall survival, therapeutic approach, tumor extension, tumor localization, 
status of resection margins, metastasis, surgical method were extracted as 
parameters to analyze postoperative overall survival.
RESULTS: A total of 162 articles and 275 cases are included in analysis. Median 
postoperative overall survival time was 31 months. Patients who received 
adjuvant and/or neo-adjuvant therapy were associated with improved survival 
[hazard ratio (HR) =0.64, P=0.017, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.45-0.92]. 
Patients with complete resection or without metastasis had longer postoperative 
overall survival compared with incomplete resection (HR =0.55, P=0.002, 95% CI: 
0.37-0.79) or with metastasis (HR =6.01, P=0.000, 95% CI: 3.33-10.67). Subgroup 
analysis suggested chemotherapy was related with longer postoperative overall 
survival (HR =0.63, P=0.015, 95% CI: 0.43-0.91), especially for patients with 
incomplete resection (HR =0.53, P=0.025, 95% CI: 0.31-0.92) and metastasis (HR 
=0.44, P=0.000, 95% CI: 0.28-0.68).
CONCLUSIONS: Radical surgery offers the only chance to cure pulmonary artery 
sarcoma. Palliative and aggressive surgery can relieve the symptoms and extend 
the life expectance. Patients can benefit from adjuvant and/or neo-adjuvant 
chemotherapy, especially those who have metastasis or undergo incomplete 
resection.

2020 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/tcr.2020.02.80
PMCID: PMC8799134
PMID: 35117621

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
http://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tcr.2020.02.80). The authors have no conflicts of 
interest to declare.


783. Transl Cancer Res. 2020 Apr;9(4):2847-2854. doi: 10.21037/tcr.2020.02.57.

Secondary malignancies after radiation therapy in prostate cancer survivors: a 
propensity-score matched competing-risk analysis.

Yu L(1), Xu J(2), Fan Z(3), Li W(4), Wang H(1), Li Q(1), Li S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Andrology, The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, 
Qingdao 266000, China.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Qingdao Central Hospital, Qingdao 266000, China.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Qingdao Haici Medical Group, Qingdao 266000, 
China.
(4)Department of Urology, The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, Qingdao 
266000, China.

BACKGROUND: The risk of secondary malignancies in prostate cancer (Pca) after 
radiation therapy (RT) is a controversial issue. This study compares RT, radical 
prostatectomy (RP), and no active treatment in low-grade, organ-confined, Pca 
survivors who have a life expectancy greater than 10-year.
METHODS: A retrospective study was carried out in a large-scale cohort. The risk 
of secondary malignancies was compared in 234,349 eligible Pca patients aged ≤75 
years using propensity-score matched competing-risk analysis.
RESULTS: In total, 87,913 (37.5%) received RT, 100,020 (42.7%) underwent RP, and 
46,416 (19.8%) did not receive any sort of active treatment. After 9.9-year of 
follow-up, the risk of secondary malignancies was 2.4% in RT, 1.2% in RP, and 
1.9% in the group that did not receive active treatment. The most frequent site 
of secondary malignancy was the lung cancer. RT had a similar risk of secondary 
malignancy compared with the group that did not receive active treatment [hazard 
ratio (HR) =1.067; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.962-1.183, P=0.220]. 
Conversely, a decreased risk was observed in RP versus RT or no active treatment 
(HR =1.539; 95% CI: 1.359-1.742, P<0.001); this was especially the case for the 
intermediate-risk group (HR =1.678; 95% CI: 1.450-1.942, P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: No difference in secondary malignancies was observed in patients 
undergoing RT or no active therapy. A lower risk of secondary malignancies was 
observed in patients undergoing RP, most likely in due to patient selection bias 
based on tobacco-related comorbidity.

2020 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/tcr.2020.02.57
PMCID: PMC8798986
PMID: 35117641

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure from (available at 
http://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tcr.2020.02.57). The authors have no conflicts of 
interests to declare.


784. Transl Cancer Res. 2020 Sep;9(9):5336-5349. doi: 10.21037/tcr-19-2796.

Radical local treatment for stage IV non-small cell lung cancer in older adults: 
a propensity-score matched analysis of the SEER database.

Qiu C(#)(1), Zhang S(#)(2), Jin H(1), Zhang X(3), Ye J(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Respiratory Medicine, Affiliated Hangzhou First People's 
Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Departments of Pulmonary Medicine, Fuyang No. 2 Hospital, Fuyang, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Zhejiang Provincial People's Hospital, 
People's Hospital of Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Increased incidence of lung cancer in older adults is attributed to 
increased life expectancy, increased risk for many types of cancer, 
age-associated comorbidities and physical performance status. Contraindicatory 
tumor resection is suggested to benefit survival outcomes in stage IV 
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We analyzed the clinical characteristics of 
older adults ≥70 years old with stage IV NSCLC and investigated whether radical 
local treatment may benefit this population.
METHODS: This retrospective, population-based cohort study analyzed patient data 
from the USA Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) Program during 
2004-2016. Eligible patients were aged ≥70 years and diagnosed with stage IV 
NSCLC. Primary endpoints were overall survival (OS) and lung-cancer-specific 
survival (LCSS). Propensity-score matching (PSM) and Cox regression analysis 
were performed to assess the prognostic role of surgical resection of primary 
tumor or metastasis.
RESULTS: Among 54,310 stage IV NSCLC older patients, 7.50% received radical 
local treatment of the primary tumor or metastasis. PSM resulted in a balanced 
study population consisting of a treatment group (n=4,037) and a matched 
no-local-treatment group (n=15,658). After adjusting for confounders, radical 
local treatment was significantly associated with increased LCSS [hazard ratio 
(HR): 0.85, 95% confidence interval (95% CI): 0.72-1.00] but decreased OS (HR: 
1.97, 95% CI: 1.31-2.97, P=0.0012).
CONCLUSIONS: In older adults ≥70 years old with stage IV NSCLC, radical local 
treatment is associated with increased LCSS but decreased OS. Additional 
prospective studies are warranted to confirm the benefit of radical local 
treatment for primary or metastatic NSCLC.

2020 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/tcr-19-2796
PMCID: PMC8798994
PMID: 35117899

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
http://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tcr-19-2796). The authors have no conflicts of 
interest to declare.


785. Transl Cancer Res. 2020 Sep;9(9):5732-5742. doi: 10.21037/tcr.2020.03.39.

p16 a biomarker of aging and tolerance for cancer therapy.

Muss HB(1), Smitherman A(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Wood WA(1), Nyrop K(1), Tuchman S(1), 
Randhawa PK(3), Entwistle AR(3), Mitin N(3), Shachar SS(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina School of Medicine and 
the Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, University of North Carolina School of Medicine and 
the Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(3)Sapere Bio, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA.
(4)Ruth and Bruce Rappaport Faculty of Medicine at the Technion, Haifa, Israel.
(5)Department of Oncology, Rambam Health Care Campus, Haifa, Israel.

There is great variability in life-expectancy, physical, cognitive, and 
functional domains in cancer patients of similar chronologic age. Nowhere is 
this more apparent than among middle-aged and older patients. However, even in 
younger patients of similar age, extensive exposure to environmental stressors 
can cause great variability in health status. A biomarker that would reflect 
biologic age and any and all health deficits in a cancer patient at a distinct 
point in time might help predict long term outcomes related to treatment, 
especially toxicity and overall survival. p16INK4a (hereafter referred to as 
p16) expression represents an ideal biomarker that reflects both cellular 
senescence and biologic aging. In murine models, p16 expression reflects 
biologic aging in almost all organs. Preliminary findings in patients with 
cancer support p16 measurement as a marker of physiologic aging and predictor of 
toxicity in patients treated with chemotherapy. This review describes the role 
of p16 in cell senescence, the methodology of p16 measurement in humans, 
preliminary studies of p16 in humans, and the potential clinical utility of p16 
in guiding treatment for cancer patients.

2020 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/tcr.2020.03.39
PMCID: PMC8797727
PMID: 35117935

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
http://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tcr.2020.03.39). The series “Energy Balance, Aging, 
Obesity, and Cancer” was commissioned by the editorial office without any 
funding or sponsorship. The authors have no other conflicts of interest to 
declare.


786. Transl Cancer Res. 2020 Jan;9(Suppl 1):S37-S55. doi:
10.21037/tcr.2019.07.09.

Breast radiotherapy in elderly women: myths, controversies, and current 
techniques in the adjuvant setting.

Díaz Gavela AA(1)(2)(3), Vaquero Barrón B(2), Del Cerro Peñalver E(1)(2)(3), 
Couñago F(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hospital Universitario Quironsalud Madrid, 
Madrid, Spain.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hospital Quironsalud La Luz, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Universidad Europea, Madrid, Spain.

In developed countries, breast cancer (BC) is the most common type of cancer in 
women, mainly affecting patients over age 60. Due to the increasing life 
expectancy and population ageing, the incidence of BC is expected to increase 
significantly in the coming years. However, no standardized clinical guidelines 
are available to assist in decision-making in elderly patients. Moreover, there 
is a lack of quality scientific evidence to guide treatment selection in this 
patient population, who are underrepresented in clinical trials. Consequently, 
up to 50% of elderly women are treated suboptimally, which implies a worse 
prognosis and survival. Given that the current estimated life expectancy of a 
healthy 70-year-old woman is 15 years, any treatment capable of reducing the 
likelihood of disease recurrence and cancer-specific mortality in this patient 
population would be beneficial. Adjuvant radiotherapy (RT) is one of the pillars 
of treatment for BC and it plays a key role in improving local control (LC) and 
overall survival (OS). Adjuvant RT is clearly indicated in young patients who 
undergo breast-conserving surgery (BCS) as well as in high risk patients, 
regardless of age. However, the use of adjuvant RT in older patients with 
early-stage disease has decreased in recent years-even in patients who undergo 
BCS-due to outdated concerns about the possible side effects of RT and reports 
suggesting that RT can be omitted in low-risk patients. One of the greatest 
challenges currently facing radiation oncologists who specialise in the 
treatment of BC is the selection of elderly patients who are likely to benefit 
from adjuvant RT. There is also a clear need to critically evaluate the 
available evidence and to apply those findings to routine clinical practice. 
Given this context, the aim of the present review is to clarify the current role 
of adjuvant RT in the management of BC in older women-particularly those with 
early-stage disease-and to dispel the myths surrounding the use of RT to treat 
elderly women. This review primarily focuses on the indications, controversies, 
and irradiation techniques used in this patient subgroup.

2020 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/tcr.2019.07.09
PMCID: PMC8797447
PMID: 35117947

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
http://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tcr.2019.07.09). The series “Radiotherapy for Breast 
Cancer in Advanced Age” was commissioned by the editorial office without any 
funding or sponsorship. The authors have no other conflicts of interest to 
declare.


787. Transl Cancer Res. 2020 Jan;9(Suppl 1):S97-S109. doi:
