10.21037/tcr.2019.07.04.

The role of radiation therapy and systemic therapies in elderly with breast 
cancer.

Nardone V(1), Falivene S(1), Giugliano FM(1), Gaetano M(1), Giordano P(2), Muto 
M(3), Daniele B(2), Guida C(1).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Radiation Oncology, Ospedale del Mare, Naples, Italy.
(2)Unit of Medical Oncology, Ospedale del Mare, Naples, Italy.
(3)Unit of Radiation Oncology, Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, 
Federico II University Medical School of Naples, Naples, Italy.

The focus of this review deals with the management of elderly patients with 
early stage breast cancer, discussing the role of systemic therapies [endocrine 
therapy (ET), chemotherapy, novel agents] and radiation therapy (RT). Several 
studies have evaluated in elderly low risk patients the possibility of omitting 
the RT but, at the same time, higher locoregional relapse (LR) rates without 
significant impact on overall survival (OS) were observed in all studies when RT 
was excluded. Technological improvements [intensity-modulated RT (IMRT), 
volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT), high dose brachy therapy (HDBT)] are 
very useful in order to reduce cosmetic outcome and improve quality of life of 
frail patients. The optimal sequence of ET, concomitant or sequential to RT, is 
currently under investigation, and specifically in the elderly it is questioned 
the possible choice of prolonged therapy after standard 5 years. Data regarding 
chemotherapy suggesting no benefit of OS in endocrine responsive diseases, 
whereas endocrine non-responsive breast cancer still showed a better outcome. 
Cyclophosphamide, methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil (CMF) regimen is recognized as 
the standard protocol, although age-dependent increase in therapy related 
mortality was reported. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy in elderly showed a lower ratio 
of pathological complete response in comparison to younger patients, but triple 
negative breast cancer patients showed a good prognosis regarding OS, comparable 
to younger patients. The risk of cardiotoxicity seems to increase with age, so 
the use trastuzumab in this setting is much debated. Currently, other anti-HER2 
agents (pertuzumab, lapatinib) are used in neoadjuvant setting, but the data on 
elderly are still premature. Novel molecules are rapidly changing the clinical 
management of breast cancer patients but are tested especially in locally 
advanced and metastatic setting. Among these, particularly interesting are 
inhibitors of CDK4 and 6, alpelisib (PI3K enzymes mutations), immune checkpoint 
(PD1, PDL1, CTLA4) inhibitors, atezolizumab. Elderly patients are 
under-represented in clinical trials, although ageing can be frequently 
correlated with a decrease in the effectiveness of the immune system. For 
elderly women, treatment decisions should be individually decided, taking into 
account the geriatric assessment and limited life expectancy and tumor 
characteristics.

2020 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/tcr.2019.07.04
PMCID: PMC8798854
PMID: 35117951

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
http://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tcr.2019.07.04). The series “Radiotherapy for Breast 
Cancer in Advanced Age” was commissioned by the editorial office without any 
funding or sponsorship. The authors have no other conflicts of interest to 
declare.


788. Transl Cancer Res. 2020 Jan;9(Suppl 1):S126-S130. doi:
10.21037/tcr.2019.06.47.

Controversies of radiation therapy omission in elderly women with early stage 
invasive breast cancer.

Abu-Gheida I(#)(1), Hammoudeh L(#)(2), Abdel-Razeq H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women's Cancer 
Center, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, King Hussein Cancer Center, Amman, Jordan.
(#)Contributed equally

Early stage invasive breast cancer is a disease that is prevalent in the elderly 
population. Data regarding radiation omission for elderly population is based on 
patients' age. Given the increased life expectancy, data on individualizing 
treatment decisions based on multiple tumor and patient related factors other 
than age only is emerging. This review aims to analyze published data to provide 
clinicians with a general oversight on approaching this question.

2020 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/tcr.2019.06.47
PMCID: PMC8798144
PMID: 35117955

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
http://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tcr.2019.06.47). The series “Radiotherapy for Breast 
Cancer in Advanced Age” was commissioned by the editorial office without any 
funding or sponsorship. The authors have no other conflicts of interest to 
declare.


789. Transl Cancer Res. 2020 Jan;9(Suppl 1):S131-S138. doi:
10.21037/tcr.2019.06.48.

Radiation therapy for the elderly-change of concepts in breast cancer?

Szigeti A(1), Szigeti E(1), Grajda A(2).

Author information:
(1)Private Practice for Radiotherapy in Schwäbisch Gmünd, MVZ RON 
Nordwürttemberg Strahlentherapie GmbH, Aalen, Germany.
(2)Private Practice for Radiotherapy in Osnabrück, MVZ RON Nordwürttemberg 
Strahlentherapie GmbH, Aalen, Germany.

The incidence of breast cancer in elderly patients has increased in the last 
years, perhaps due to better and earlier diagnostics and a longer life 
expectancy. Radiotherapy as a local adjuvant treatment after breast surgery, 
improves local control and overall survival. Due to frailty or comorbidity 
current guidelines cannot always be applied and the treatment decision-making 
process involving these older patients often remains the task of the treating 
physician rather than a fully established tumor board. The goal of this review 
is to summarize in short, the radiation therapy techniques available, and to 
outline the most important factors that could be relevant in the decision making 
for radiotherapy for elderly woman affected by invasive breast cancer.

2020 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/tcr.2019.06.48
PMCID: PMC8799099
PMID: 35117956

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
http://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tcr.2019.06.48). The series “Radiotherapy for Breast 
Cancer in Advanced Age” was commissioned by the editorial office without any 
funding or sponsorship. The authors have no other conflicts of interest to 
declare.


790. Transl Cancer Res. 2020 Jan;9(Suppl 1):S139-S145. doi:
10.21037/tcr.2019.07.15.

Extreme weekly hypofractionation in breast cancer in elderly.

Blanco Parajón S(1), Pérez Payo MP(1), Iglesias Agüera A(1), Caminero Cuevas 
MJ(1), Canteli Castañón M(1), Alonso Sánchez D(2), Juan Rijo GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hospital Universitario Central de Asturias, 
Asturias, Spain.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hospital Universitario de Gran Canaria 
Doctor Negrín, Canarias, España.

Breast cancer is the second cause of cancer death worldwide. One-half of new 
cases are diagnosed in elderly patients, with a growing global life expectancy 
and with age being a major risk factor for breast cancer. Radiation therapy is 
one of the main treatments as adjuvant treatment whenever possible and as 
definitive if not. Daily conventional fractionation over 5 weeks is costly and 
lengthy, and alternatively weekly hypofractionation could be a good option in 
elderly patients with comorbidities, social problems and who live far from the 
treatment center. The purpose of this article is to review weekly 
hypofractionated schedules in elderly patients published in literature, in terms 
of locoregional recurrence (LRR) and side effects. There are eleven studies on 
the topic with different treatment schedules, 87.1% of lesions were adjuvant 
treatments and 12.9% definitive treatments, with a range of LRRs between 0% and 
16% depending on several factors. The number of acute side effects as grade 3 or 
grade 4 was very low, being less than 15% in all series. The most significant 
late side effect was fibrosis in a range between 15.1% and 39.2%. Extreme weekly 
hypofractionated radiation therapy seems to be a safe treatment without 
significant side effects.

2020 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/tcr.2019.07.15
PMCID: PMC8798296
PMID: 35117957

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
http://dx.doi.org/10.21037/tcr.2019.07.15). The series “Radiotherapy for Breast 
Cancer in Advanced Age” was commissioned by the editorial office without any 
funding or sponsorship. The authors have no other conflicts of interest to 
declare.


791. Prog Rehabil Med. 2022 Jan 25;7:20220002. doi: 10.2490/prm.20220002.
eCollection  2022.

Preoperative Walking Capacity Indirectly Relates to Decreased Postoperative 
Complications in Patients with Gastrointestinal Cancer.

Hara T(1), Kogure E(2), Iijima S(3), Fukawa Y(4), Kubo A(1), Kakuda W(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, School of Health Science, International 
University of Health and Welfare, Tochigi, Japan.
(2)Rehabilitation Progress Center Incorporated, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Division of Rehabilitation, International University of Health and Welfare 
Hospital, Tochigi, Japan.
(4)Division of Rehabilitation, International University of Health and Welfare 
Ichikawa Hospital, Chiba, Japan.
(5)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, School of Medicine, International 
University of Health and Welfare, Chiba, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: Postoperative complications (PCs) in patients with gastrointestinal 
cancer (GIC) lead to reduced lifespan and poor quality of life. The aim of this 
study was to investigate the correlation between preoperative exercise-related 
factors, together with other contributory factors, and the frequency of PCs in 
patients with GIC.
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional, three-institution study. We enrolled 299 
patients who were scheduled for elective surgery for GIC (182 men and 117 women; 
age, 65.7 ± 11.0 years). PCs were graded using the Clavien-Dindo classification 
based on the medical records 1 month postoperatively. Exercise-related factors 
(the skeletal muscle index, the isometric knee extension torque, and the 6-min 
walk test [6 MWT] distance) were measured before surgery. Based on previous 
studies of factors contributing to complications, data on age, sex, clinical 
cancer stage, comorbidities, neoadjuvant therapy, type of surgery, surgery 
duration, blood loss, blood transfusion, laboratory data, respiratory function, 
body mass index, and visceral fat area were collected.
RESULTS: The frequency of PCs was positively correlated with surgery duration 
(β=0.427) and C-reactive protein (CRP) level on postoperative day 3 (β=0.189). 
The 6 MWT was negatively correlated with the frequency of PCs through CRP level 
on postoperative day 3 (β=-0.035). This model demonstrated an acceptable fit to 
the data (goodness-of-fit index, 0.979; adjusted goodness-of-fit index, 0.936; 
comparative fit index, 0.944; and root mean square error of approximation, 
0.076).
CONCLUSIONS: Preoperative walking capacity was correlated with PCs in patients 
undergoing GIC surgery. Prevention of PCs in patients with GIC requires the 
monitoring of both surgical parameters and postoperative inflammation.

2022 The Japanese Association of Rehabilitation Medicine.

DOI: 10.2490/prm.20220002
PMCID: PMC8784540
PMID: 35118212

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: The authors declare that 
there are no conflicts of interest regarding the publication of this article.


792. touchREV Endocrinol. 2021 Apr;17(1):12-20. doi: 10.17925/EE.2021.17.1.12.
Epub  2021 Apr 28.

Dapagliflozin as an Adjunct Therapy to Insulin in Patients with Type 1 Diabetes 
Mellitus: Efficacy and Safety of this Combination.

Jendle JH(1), Ampudia-Blasco FJ(2), Füchtenbusch M(3), Pozzilli P(4).

Author information:
(1)Institution of Medical Sciences, Örebro University, Örebro, Sweden.
(2)Endocrinology and Nutrition Department, Clinic University Hospital Valencia, 
INCLIVA Biomedical Research Institute, Valencia, Spain.
(3)Diabetes Centre at Marienplatz, Munich, Germany, Diabetes Research Study 
Group e.V. at Helmholt Zentrum Munich, Germany.
(4)University Campus Bio-Medico, Rome, Italy.

The prevalence of type 1 diabetes (T1D) is increasing worldwide. T1D reduces 
life expectancy due to complications including cardiovascular disease. 
Sodium-glucose co-transporter (SGLT) inhibitors are a new class of drugs 
developed to treat type 2 diabetes (T2D), and now they can be used as an adjunct 
to insulin in T1D. In clinical trials, they have been shown to improve glycaemic 
control and decrease body weight without the risk of increased hypoglycaemia and 
with a reduction in insulin dose. Four SGLT2 inhibitors have been approved in 
Europe for the treatment of T2D, while only dapagliflozin and sotagliflozin, a 
dual SGLT1 and SGLT2 inhibitor approved in 2019, have been approved for the 
treatment of T1D. Both can be used as an adjunct therapy in combination with 
insulin in adults with a body mass index (BMI) of ≥27 kg/m2, inadequately 
controlled with insulin. In Europe, dapagliflozin is the only currently 
available SGLT2 inhibitor indcated as adjunct therapy for patients with T1D. The 
subgroup of patients with a BMI of ≥27 kg/m2 from the DEPICT-1 and -2 trials 
(Dapagliflozin Evaluation in Patients with Inadequately Controlled Type 1 
diabetes) showed similar reduction in hyperglycaemia and body weight but no 
significant increased risk of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) than the overall trial 
population. The risk of DKA has been shown to increase in patients with T1D 
treated with adjunct therapy with SGLT2 inhibitors, and studies on sotagliflozin 
and empagliflozin have suggested a dose response. Thus, it is important to 
educate patients and doctors how to recognize symptoms of upcoming DKA and 
mitigate it. An independent DKA education programme has recently been developed 
to instruct patients with T1D being treated with SGLT inhibitor therapies with 
and without insulin pumps to prevent, identify and treat DKA. Despite these 
considerations, clinical trials support the use of SGLT2 inhibitors in the 
management of T1D. The benefits and potential risks of dapagliflozin as an 
adjunct therapy to insulin in adults with T1D should be considered in each 
individual case. Here we discuss the efficacy and safety of dapagliflozin as 
adjunct therapy in patients with T1D.

© Touch Medical Media 2021.

DOI: 10.17925/EE.2021.17.1.12
PMCID: PMC8320012
PMID: 35118442

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Johan H Jendle serves on advisory 
boards for AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, Medtronic, Merck, 
NovoNordisk and Sanofi; speakers bureau for AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Eli Lilly, Medtronic, NovoNordisk and Sanofi; and has received grants to 
institution from Medtronic and NovoNordisk. Francisco J Ampudia-Blasco has 
served on advisory panels for Abbott, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli 
Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, LifeScan, Medtronic, Merck, Novartis, NovoNordisk, 
Pfizer, Roche and Sanofi; and has received research support from Abbott, 
AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bayer, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, LifeScan, 
Merck, NovoNordisk, Pfizer, Sanofi and Servier. Martin Füchtenbusch serves on 
advisory boards for AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly and Berlin 
Chemie; and is a speaker for AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, 
Berlin Chemie, Abbott, Sanofi, MSD and NovoNordisk. Paolo Pozzilli serves on 
advisory boards for AstraZeneca and Sanofi; speakers bureau for Eli Lilly, 
Sanofi and AstraZeneca; and has received grants to institution from Sanofi, Eli 
Lilly, AstraZeneca, Medtronic, GSK, Augen and NovoNordisk.


793. J Clin Nurs. 2023 May;32(9-10):2270-2281. doi: 10.1111/jocn.16242. Epub 2022
Feb  3.

'Nurses' self-management support to hospitalised patients: A scoping review.

Otter CEM(1), Keers JC(1), Smit J(2), Schoonhoven L(3)(4), de Man-van Ginkel 
JM(3).

Author information:
(1)Martini Hospital, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(2)University of Applied Sciences Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)Nursing Science, Julius Centre for Health Sciences and Primary Care, 
University Medical Centre Utrecht, University Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(4)School of Health Sciences, Faculty of Environmental and Life Sciences, 
University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: To review the current literature to map and explore the 
interventions that have been considered or used by nurses to support adult 
patients' self-management during hospitalisation.
BACKGROUND: Nurses can play an important role in supporting patients' 
self-management. Currently, however, it is unclear how nurses perform this task 
during a patient's stay in hospital. Traditionally, nurses take the primary role 
in managing patients' care during hospitalisation. Ideally, patients should have 
the opportunity to continue applying strategies to manage their health 
conditions as much as possible while in the hospital. This can increase 
patients' self-efficacy and decrease unnecessary readmissions.
DESIGN: Scoping review informed by the Joanna Briggs Institute methodology.
METHODS: A database search was undertaken using Pubmed, CINAHL, PsycInfo, 
Cochrane, Embase and grey literature sources. Data from the included studies 
were mapped and summarised in a narrative summary. To synthesise the information 
that was given about each intervention, we conducted a qualitative inductive 
content analysis. Results are reported in accordance with the guidelines for 
reporting Items for systematic review and meta-analyses extension for scoping 
review (PRISMA-ScR) (Supplementary File 1).
RESULTS: 83 documents were included in this review. Based on the information 
about the interventions, three themes were identified: 'self-management support 
activities', 'focus of self-management support' and the 'intervention 
procedure'. Five self-management support activities can be distinguished: 
'giving education', 'counselling and coaching', 'enhancing responsibility', 
'engaging family-caregivers' and 'supporting transition from hospital to home'. 
The interventions focused on improving disease-related knowledge and on 
strengthening several self-management skills. Information about the procedure, 
development and the theoretical underpinning of the intervention was often 
limited.
CONCLUSIONS: Most activities within the nursing interventions to support adult 
patients' self-management during hospitalisation are the part of regular nursing 
care. However, the transfer of responsibility for care task to the patient is 
relatively new. Further research could focus on developing interventions 
addressing all aspects of self-management and that are embedded in the patient's 
care pathway across settings.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: Clinical nurses may improve nursing care by 
supporting all aspects of patients' self-management and facilitate patients as 
much as possible for taking responsibility for self-management tasks during 
hospitalisation.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jocn.16242
PMID: 35118738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Free Radic Res. 2022 Jan;56(1):90-105. doi: 10.1080/10715762.2022.2038789.
Epub  2022 Mar 18.

Oxidative stress and gender disparity in cancer.

Kim SY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, College of Science and Technology, Duksung Women's 
University, Seoul, South Korea.

Oxidative stress is caused by homeostasis disrupted by excessively increased 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) due to intrinsic or extrinsic causes. Among 
diseases caused by the abnormal induction of ROS, cancer is a representative 
disease that shows gender specificity in development and malignancy. Females 
have the advantage of longer life expectancy than males because of the genetic 
advantages derived from X chromosomes, the antioxidant protective function by 
estrogen, and the decrease in exposure to extrinsic risk factors, such as 
alcohol and smoking. This study first examines the ordinary biological responses 
to oxidative stress and the effects of ROS on cancer progression and describes 
the differences in cancer incidence and mortality by gender and the differences 
in oxidative stress affected by sex hormones. This paper summarized how several 
important transcription factors regulate ROS-induced stress and in vivo 
responses, and how their expression is changed by sex hormones. Estrogen is 
associated with disease resistance and greater mitochondrial function and 
reduces mitochondrial damage and ROS production in females than in males. In 
addition, estrogen affects the activation of nuclear factor-erythroid 2 
p45-related factor (NRF) 2 and the regulation of other antioxidant-related 
transcription factors through NRF2, leading to benefits in females. Because ROS 
have a variety of molecular targets in cells, effective cancer treatment 
requires understanding the potential of ROS and focusing on the characteristics 
of the research target, such as the patient's gender. Therefore, this review 
intends to emphasize the necessity of discussing gender specificity as a new 
therapeutic approach for the efficient regulation of ROS considering individual 
specificity.

DOI: 10.1080/10715762.2022.2038789
PMID: 35118928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Plant Foods Hum Nutr. 2022 Mar;77(1):30-36. doi: 10.1007/s11130-021-00939-y.
 Epub 2022 Feb 4.

Capsaicinoid-Glucosides of Fresh Hot Pepper Promotes Stress Resistance and 
Longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Elkhedir A(1), Iqbal A(2), Albahi A(1), Tao M(1), Rong L(1), Xu X(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Environment Correlative Dietology, Ministry of Education, 
Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan, 430070, China.
(2)College of Agricultural and Life Science, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, 
USA.
(3)Key Laboratory of Environment Correlative Dietology, Ministry of Education, 
Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan, 430070, China. 
xuxiaoyun@mail.hzau.edu.cn.

In this study, capsaicin-glucoside and dihydro-capsaicin-glucoside derived from 
fresh hot-red pepper were isolated and identified using UPLC-ESI-Q-TOF-MS/PDA. 
Synchronized worms were treated with capsaicinoid-glucosides (CG), and then 
lifespan and stress resistance were examined. The 50 µg/ml concentration of 
CG-intake could effectively protect the Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) 
against stresses factors including oxidation and heat as well as reactive oxygen 
species (ROS), thereby enhancing the survival of CG-treated worms under stress. 
Enhancing stress resistance in CG-treated worms could be due to the increased 
expressions of stress-related genes in C. elegans such as daf-16, skn-1 and 
their downstream target genes (sod-3, hsp-16.2, gst-4 and gcs-1). Lifespan study 
of different C. elegans strains and RT-PCR showed that the CG-mediated lifespan 
extension was dependent on DAF-16/FOXO and SKN-1/Nrf2 transcription factors. The 
study is a step forward in exploring the stress resistance and anti-aging 
properties of this beneficial extract. Thus, this study will be useful in 
formulating remedies for stresses factors and age associated disorders.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11130-021-00939-y
PMID: 35119578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. J Gastrointest Cancer. 2023 Mar;54(1):11-19. doi:
10.1007/s12029-021-00789-6.  Epub 2022 Feb 4.

Advanced Hepatocellular Cancer Treated with Sorafenib and Novel Inflammatory 
Markers.

Gulmez A(1), Harputluoglu H(2).

Author information:
(1)Adana Research and Training State Hospital, Adana, Turkey. 
doktor.ahmetgulmez@gmail.com.
(2)Medical Oncology Department, Inonu University, Malatya, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: Hepatocellular cancer (HCC) is an aggressive tumor with an increasing 
incidence in recent years. Life expectancy is limited, especially due to limited 
effective treatments and tumor biology. In this study, we aimed to examine the 
effect of neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), 
prognostic nutritional index (PNI) parameters of treatment efficacy of patients 
using sorafenib in primary systemic therapy, progression-free survival (PFS), 
and overall survival (OS).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, we retrospectively analyzed 78 patients 
who used sorafenib as a first-line systemic treatment. NLR, PLR, and PNI values 
were calculated with the existing formulas. Cut-off values for these markers 
were determined by performing ROC curve analysis. These values were determined 
respectively as 2.88, 111.05, and 38.25. Patients were divided into two groups 
according to this threshold value. OS and PFS values were calculated using a Cox 
proportional risk model. The effects of markers on OS and PFS were examined 
based on the cut-off value.
RESULTS: The mean PFS was 7.1 (range 1-46) months, and the mean OS was 14.1 
(range 1.5-94) months. The pre-treatment decreased NLR (< 2.88) value was 
prognostic for higher PFS and OS rates. These values were determined 
respectively as 9.23 ± 1.79 and 3.45 ± 0.32 months for PFS and 21.17 ± 4.53 and 
5.32 ± 0.53 months for OS. Pre-treatment decreased PLR (< 111.05) was found to 
be a positively significant prognostic value for both survival. These values 
were determined respectively as 7.37 ± 1.43 months and 3.16 ± 0.47 months for 
PFS and 21.12 ± 5.52 months and 6.16 ± 0.87 months for OS. And also, low PNI 
(< 38.25) value was prognostic for lower PFS and rates. These values were 
determined respectively as 7.47 ± 0.59 months and 3.25 ± 0.21 months for PFS and 
16.36 ± 4.37 months and 5.15 ± 0.42 for OS. All three parameters were found to 
be statistically significant (p < 0.05) for both OS and PFS as independent 
prognostic markers.
CONCLUSION: Today, as the standard first-line treatment of HCC has shifted to 
combinations with immunotherapy (IO), IO transportation is not possible in most 
countries of the world. However, there are also patients who achieve great 
survival with only sorafenib. The important point is to identify the biomarkers 
that predict which patient will benefit better from which treatment. With the 
markers in our study and a scoring system that can be obtained with these 
markers, it can be evaluated which patient will be given IO combination and 
which patient will be given only TKI treatment. We think that such a scoring 
system can be used to identify suitable patients, especially in countries where, 
for financial reasons, not every patient can access Immunotherapy. The advantage 
of these tests is that they are inexpensive, easily calculable and standardized.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Number and date of registration: 2021/2088, 01-06-2021, 
retrospectively registered.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12029-021-00789-6
PMID: 35119620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. PLoS One. 2022 Feb 4;17(2):e0263295. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0263295. 
eCollection 2022.

Parous rate and longevity of anophelines mosquitoes in bure district, 
northwestern Ethiopia.

Adugna T(1), Getu E(2), Yewhelew D(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Natural and Computational Sciences, Debre 
Tabor, Amhara, Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Zoological Science, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Addis 
Ababa, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences and Pathology, College of Health 
Sciences, Jimma, Oromia, Ethiopia.

The intensity of malaria transmission is measured by parous rate, daily survival 
rate, human blood meal frequency, sporozoite rate, and entomological inoculation 
rates. Female parous status is a key index of vector competence, adult vector 
longevity, recruitment rate of adult, and the length of a gonotrophic cycle. 
Hence, the present study was aimed to investigate the parous rate and the 
longevity of Anopheles mosquitoes in Bure District, Northwestern Ethiopia. 
Parous rate was estimated as the number of mosquitoes with parous ovaries 
divided by the number of females dissected multiplied by 100. Mosquito life 
expectancy (longevity as d) was estimated by. One way- ANOVA was applied to 
confirm the presence of parous rate difference in the villages (p < 0.05). A 
total of 952 unfed hosts-seeking Anopheles mosquitoes was dissected for parous 
rate determination. The overall parous rate of An. arabiensis in the district 
was 52.0%, and the highest parous rate was recorded in Shnebekuma than other 
villages (F 2, 33 = 6.974; p = 0.003). Similarly, the parous rate of An. 
cinereus showed significant variation among villages (F 2, 33 = 5.044, p = 
0.012) and the highest rate (63.0%) was recorded in Bukta. The mean longevity of 
An. funestus, An. arabiensis, An. coustani, An. squamosus, An. pharoensis, and 
An. cinereus was 6.5 days, 4.6 days, 3.5 days, 3.7 days, 2.7 days, and 2.2 days, 
respectively. The longevity of each species was not sufficient to complete the 
life cycle of malaria parasite for malaria transmission throughout the year 
because P. falciparum requires from 12-14 day.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0263295
PMCID: PMC8815865
PMID: 35120146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare no competing interest.


798. Mayo Clin Proc. 2022 Feb;97(2):205-207. doi: 10.1016/j.mayocp.2021.12.014.

The High Cost of Harm.

Myers C(1), Stockwell DC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD. Electronic address: 
cmyers54@jhmi.edu.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD; Armstrong Institute of Patient 
Safety and Quality, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD.

Comment on
    Mayo Clin Proc. 2022 Feb;97(2):221-224.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mayocp.2021.12.014
PMID: 35120688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Trends Cardiovasc Med. 2023 Jul;33(5):283-297. doi:
10.1016/j.tcm.2022.01.015.  Epub 2022 Feb 2.

The need for long-term personalized management of frail CVD patients by 
rehabilitation and telemonitoring: A framework.

Scherrenberg M(1), Marinus N(2), Giallauria F(3), Falter M(4), Kemps H(5), 
Wilhelm M(6), Prescott E(7), Vigorito C(3), De Kluiver E(8), Cipriano G Jr(9), 
Dendale P(10), Hansen D(11).

Author information:
(1)Heart Centre Hasselt, Jessa Hospital, Hasselt, Belgium; UHasselt, Faculty of 
Medicine and Life Sciences, Diepenbeek, Belgium; Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Antwerp University, Belgium.
(2)UHasselt, Faculty of Rehabilitation Sciences, BIOMED-REVAL, Hasselt, Belgium.
(3)Department of Translational Medical Sciences, Federico II University of 
Naples.
(4)Heart Centre Hasselt, Jessa Hospital, Hasselt, Belgium; UHasselt, Faculty of 
Medicine and Life Sciences, Diepenbeek, Belgium; Faculty of Medicine, Department 
of Cardiology, KULeuven, Herestraat 49, 3000, Leuven, Belgium.
(5)Department of Cardiology, Máxima Medical Center, The Netherlands; Department 
of Industrial Design, Technical University Eindhoven, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Cardiology, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, University 
of Bern, Switzerland.
(7)Department of Cardiology, Bispebjerg University Hospital, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, NW, Denmark.
(8)Isala Heart Centre, Zwolle, The Netherlands.
(9)Physical Therapy Department, University of Brasilia, Brazil.
(10)Heart Centre Hasselt, Jessa Hospital, Hasselt, Belgium; UHasselt, Faculty of 
Medicine and Life Sciences, Diepenbeek, Belgium.
(11)Heart Centre Hasselt, Jessa Hospital, Hasselt, Belgium; UHasselt, Faculty of 
Rehabilitation Sciences, BIOMED-REVAL, Hasselt, Belgium. Electronic address: 
dominique.hansen@uhasselt.be.

Due to advances in cardiovascular medicine and preventive cardiology, patients 
benefit from a better prognosis, even in case of significant disease burden such 
as acute and chronic coronary syndromes, advanced valvular heart disease and 
chronic heart failure. These advances have allowed CVD patients to increase 
their life expectancy, but on the other hand also experience aging-related 
syndromes such as frailty. Despite being underrecognized, frailty is a critical, 
common, and co-existent condition among older CVD patients, leading to exercise 
intolerance and compromised adherence to cardiovascular rehabilitation (CR). 
Moreover, frail patients need a different approach for CR and are at very high 
risk for adverse events, but yet are underrepresented in conventional CR. 
Fortunately, recent advances have been made in technology, allowing remote 
monitoring, coaching and supervision of CVD patients in secondary prevention 
programs with promising benefits. Similarly, we hypothesized that such programs 
should also be implemented to treat frailty in CVD patients. However, 
considering frail patients' particular needs and challenges, telerehabilitation 
interventions should thus be appropriately adapted. Our purpose is to provide, 
for the first time and based on expert opinions, a framework of how such a 
cardiac telerehabilitation program could be developed and implemented to manage 
a prevention and rehabilitation program for CVD patients with frailty.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tcm.2022.01.015
PMID: 35121082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Biosens Bioelectron. 2022 May 1;203:114048. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2022.114048.
 Epub 2022 Jan 29.

Ultrasensitive photoelectrochemical aptasensor for detecting telomerase activity 
based on Ag(2)S/Ag decorated ZnIn(2)S(4)/C(3)N(4) 3D/2D Z-scheme 
heterostructures and amplified by Au/Cu(2+)-boron-nitride nanozyme.

Zhu JH(1), Gou H(1), Zhao T(1), Mei LP(1), Wang AJ(1), Feng JJ(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Geography and Environmental Sciences, College of Chemistry and 
Life Sciences, Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education for Advanced 
Catalysis Materials, Zhejiang Normal University, Jinhua, 321004, China.
(2)College of Geography and Environmental Sciences, College of Chemistry and 
Life Sciences, Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education for Advanced 
Catalysis Materials, Zhejiang Normal University, Jinhua, 321004, China. 
Electronic address: jjfeng@zjnu.cn.

Enzyme-mediated signal amplification strategies have gained substantial 
attention in photoelectrochemical (PEC) biosensing, while natural enzyme on the 
photoelectrode inevitably obstructs the interfacial electron transfer, in turn 
deteriorating the photocurrent responses. Herein, Au nanoparticles and 
Cu2+-modified boron nitride nanosheets (AuNPs/Cu2+-BNNS) behaved as nanozyme to 
achieve remarkable magnification in the PEC signals from a novel signal-off 
aptasensor for ultra-sensitive assay of telomerase (TE) activity based on 
Ag2S/Ag nanoparticles decorated ZnIn2S4/C3N4 Z-scheme heterostructures (termed 
as Ag2S/Ag/ZnIn2S4/C3N4, synthesized by hydrothermal treatment). Specifically, 
telomerase primer sequences (TS) were extended by TE in the presence of 
deoxyribonucleoside triphosphates (dNTPs), which was directly bond with the 
thiol modified complementary DNA (cDNA), achieving efficient linkage with the 
nanozyme via Au-S bond. The immobilized nanoenzyme catalyzed the oxidation 
between 4-chloro-1-naphthol (4-CN) and H2O2 to generate insoluble precipitation 
on the photo-electrode. By virtue of the inhibited PEC signals with the 
TE-enabled TS extension, an aptasensor for assay of TE activity was developed, 
showing the wide linear range of 50-5×105 cell mL-1 and a low detection limit of 
19 cell mL-1. This work provides some valuable guidelines for developing 
advanced nanozyme-based PEC bioanalysis of diverse cancer cells.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2022.114048
PMID: 35121445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Body Image. 2022 Mar;40:310-321. doi: 10.1016/j.bodyim.2022.01.005. Epub
2022  Feb 1.

Love me Tinder: The effects of women's lifetime dating app use on daily body 
dissatisfaction, disordered eating urges, and negative mood.

Portingale J(1), Fuller-Tyszkiewicz M(2), Liu S(3), Eddy S(3), Liu X(3), Giles 
S(3), Krug I(3).

Author information:
(1)Melbourne School of Psychological Sciences, The University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia. Electronic address: jade.portingale@unimelb.edu.au.
(2)School of Psychology, Deakin University, Geelong, VIC, Australia; Centre for 
Social and Early Emotional Development, Deakin University, Burwood, VIC, 
Australia.
(3)Melbourne School of Psychological Sciences, The University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

Dating apps may potentially serve as an environment that subjects young women to 
the harmful effects of appearance-related pressure. The current study assessed 
for the first time whether women's dating app use predicted body dissatisfaction 
(BD), urges to engage in disordered eating (DE), and negative mood in daily 
life. We also examined the unique effects of women's dating app partner 
preferences (i.e., seeking idealised versus non-idealised physical 
characteristics) on the aforementioned outcomes, and whether appearance-based 
rejection sensitivity (appearance-RS) moderated the effects of dating app use. 
Participants (N = 296; 100% women) first completed a baseline survey assessing 
lifetime dating app usage (i.e., current or former usage), partner preferences, 
and appearance-RS, followed by a 7-day smartphone-facilitated ecological 
investigation into momentary experiences of BD, DE urges (i.e., 
binge-eating/purging, dietary restraint, and exercise), and negative mood. 
Ninety-four women (32%) reported lifetime dating app usage, which, relative to 
non-use, predicted greater daily urges for binge-eating/purging and negative 
mood. However, appearance-RS failed to moderate these effects. Among dating app 
users, partner preferences were not a significant predictor of the central 
outcomes. These findings extend previous research by examining the unique 
effects of dating app use on everyday BD, DE urges, and negative mood. 
Replication and extension are encouraged.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bodyim.2022.01.005
PMID: 35121567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. J Med Genet. 2023 Jan;60(1):41-47. doi: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2021-108215. Epub
2022  Feb 4.

Cost-effectiveness model of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) surveillance in 
hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma (HLRCC).

Thompson AJ(1), Alwan YM(2), Ramani VAC(3), Evans DG(4)(5), Maher ER(6), 
Woodward ER(7)(5).

Author information:
(1)Manchester Centre for Health Economics, Division of Population Health, Health 
Services Research and Primary Care, The University of Manchester, Manchester, 
UK.
(2)Department of Clinical Radiology, Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust, 
Manchester, UK.
(3)Department of Urology, The Christie NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.
(4)Division of Evolution and Genomic Medicine, The University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK.
(5)Manchester Centre for Genomic Medicine, Manchester University NHS Foundation 
Trust, Manchester, UK.
(6)Department of Medical Genetics, University of Cambridge and Cambridge 
University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, UK.
(7)Division of Evolution and Genomic Medicine, The University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK Emma.Woodward@mft.nhs.uk.

PURPOSE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of annual renal imaging 
surveillance (RIS) in hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer (HLRCC). 
HLRCC is associated with a 21% risk to age 70 years of RCC. Presentations with 
advanced renal cell cancer (RCC) are associated with poor outcomes whereas RIS 
detects early-stage RCC; however, evidence for the cost-effectiveness of RIS is 
lacking.
METHODS: We developed a decision-analytic model to compare, at different age 
starting points (11 years, 18 years, 40 years, 60 years), the costs and benefits 
of lifetime contrast-enhanced renal MRI surveillance (CERMRIS) vs no 
surveillance in HLRCC. Benefits were measured in life-years gained (LYG), 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and costs in British Pounds Sterling (GBP). 
Net monetary benefit (NMB) was calculated using a cost-effectiveness threshold 
of £20 000/QALY. One-way sensitivity and probabilistic analyses were also 
performed.
RESULTS: In the base-case 11-year age cohort, surveillance was cost-effective 
(Incremental_NMB=£3522 (95% CI -£2747 to £7652); Incremental_LYG=1.25 (95% CI 
0.30 to 1.86); Incremental_QALYs=0.29 (95% CI 0.07 to 0.43)] at an additional 
mean discounted cost of £2185/patient (95% CI £430 to £4144). Surveillance was 
also cost-effective in other age cohorts and dominated a no surveillance 
strategy in the 40 year cohort [Incremental_NMB=£12 655 (95% CIs -£709 to £21 
134); Incremental_LYG=1.52 (95% CI 0.30 to 2.26); Incremental_QALYs=0.58 (95% CI 
0.12 to 0.87) with a cost saving of £965/patient (95% CI -£4202 to £2652).
CONCLUSION: Annual CERMRI in HLRCC is cost-effective across age groups modelled.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2021-108215
PMID: 35121648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: AJT declares conflicts with 
Perspectum. DGE declares consultancies with AstraZeneca, SpringWorks and 
Recursion and declares no conflict of interest specifically related to this 
study. The other authors declare no conflicts of interest.


803. ISME J. 2022 Jun;16(6):1512-1522. doi: 10.1038/s41396-022-01198-8. Epub 2022
Feb  5.

Founder cell configuration drives competitive outcome within colony biofilms.

Eigentler L(1)(2), Kalamara M(1), Ball G(3), MacPhee CE(4), Stanley-Wall NR(5), 
Davidson FA(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Microbiology, School of Life Sciences, University of 
Dundee, Dundee, DD1 5EH, UK.
(2)Mathematics, School of Science and Engineering, University of Dundee, Dundee, 
DD1 4HN, UK.
(3)Dundee Imaging Facility, School of Life Sciences, University of Dundee, 
Dundee, DD1 5HN, UK.
(4)School of Physics and Astronomy, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, EH9 
3FD, UK.
(5)Division of Molecular Microbiology, School of Life Sciences, University of 
Dundee, Dundee, DD1 5EH, UK. N.R.Stanleywall@dundee.ac.uk.
(6)Mathematics, School of Science and Engineering, University of Dundee, Dundee, 
DD1 4HN, UK. f.a.davidson@dundee.ac.uk.

Bacteria can form dense communities called biofilms, where cells are embedded in 
a self-produced extracellular matrix. Exploiting competitive interactions 
between strains within the biofilm context can have potential applications in 
biological, medical, and industrial systems. By combining mathematical modelling 
with experimental assays, we reveal that spatial structure and competitive 
dynamics within biofilms are significantly affected by the location and density 
of the founder cells used to inoculate the biofilm. Using a species-independent 
theoretical framework describing colony biofilm formation, we show that the 
observed spatial structure and relative strain biomass in a mature biofilm 
comprising two isogenic strains can be mapped directly to the geographical 
distributions of founder cells. Moreover, we define a predictor of competitive 
outcome that accurately forecasts relative abundance of strains based solely on 
the founder cells' potential for radial expansion. Consequently, we reveal that 
variability of competitive outcome in biofilms inoculated at low founder density 
is a natural consequence of the random positioning of founding cells in the 
inoculum. Extension of our study to non-isogenic strains that interact through 
local antagonisms, shows that even for strains with different competition 
strengths, a race for space remains the dominant mode of competition in low 
founder density biofilms. Our results, verified by experimental assays using 
Bacillus subtilis, highlight the importance of spatial dynamics on competitive 
interactions within biofilms and hence to related applications.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41396-022-01198-8
PMCID: PMC9122948
PMID: 35121821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


804. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2022 May;395(5):535-546. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-022-02209-3. Epub 2022 Feb 5.

The listed, delisted, and sustainability of therapeutic medicines for dementia 
patients: the study is specific to South Korea.

Lee JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Science & Research Center, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, South Korea. science@research.re.kr.

Erratum in
    Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2022 Mar 7;:

The Dementia Management Act (DMA) came into effect on August 4, 2011, in South 
Korea. Diagnosis and medication were rapidly performed for dementia in a short 
time. We investigated the cardiac effects of increased drug prescription 
following DMA. We observed a correlation between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
anti-AD drug (AAD) groups from 2010 to 2019 on the National Health Insurance 
System (NHIS) of South Korea. This study investigated the increase and decrease 
in deaths of AD patients with AAD. We analysed the mortality per 100,000 
population with the R2 Calculator. Moreover, we made the up or down datum line 
for the simple decision on the listed, delisted, and sustainable drug examined 
by a linear equation and R2. We observed that life expectancy was diminished by 
AAD in Sorokdo National Hospital. In the NHIS, donepezil and rivastigmine 
increased the number of deaths decided on R2 > 0.75. Memantine was sustainable. 
We could not decide on galantamine because it is one of the other groups. We 
made a straightforward decision-maker of delisted, listed, or sustainable 
criteria based on mortality and datum line.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-022-02209-3
PMCID: PMC8989833
PMID: 35122115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no competing interests.


805. Ann Ital Chir. 2021 Oct 25;10:S2239253X21036719.

Indocyanine Green (ICG) for the assessment of splenic perfusion during 
laparoscopic splenic artery aneurysmectomy. A case report.

Bertolucci A, Tartaglia D, Cremonini C, Ginesini M, Cengeli I, Galatioto C, 
Coccolini F, Chiarugi M.

CASE REPORT: We describe the case of a 54-year-old man with a 20mm splenic 
aneurysm, who underwent laparoscopic aneurysmectomy, without splenic removal. 
The residual splenic blood supply was assessed by using indocyanine green i.v. 
administration.
CLINICAL FINDINGS: The patient presented at ED with abdominal pain, syncopal 
episode, and tachycardia. A CT scan with contrast showed hemoperitoneum with a 
20mm splenic aneurysm, which was located at the bifurcation of the splenic and 
left gastroepiploic artery. Treatment and Outcome Laparoscopic surgery was then 
warranted. Abdominal exploration revealed a serohemorrhagic collection without 
active source of bleeding. After opening the gastro-colic ligament and obtaining 
vascular control of the splenic artery, the aneurysm was clipped and resected. 
No macroscopic modifications occurred to the spleen. This finding was confirmed 
by intravenous administration of indocyanine green. The operating time was 265 
minutes. During the postoperative course, a grade A pancreatic fistula occurred. 
The patient was discharged on postoperative day seventh.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The management of true splenic artery aneurysms should be 
patient-tailored, considering the location of the aneurysm, operative risks and 
the patient's age, life expectancy and clinical status. The use of ICG in 
splenic surgery helps delineate the splenic parenchyma and evaluate residual 
splenic vascularization.
KEY WORDS: Indocyanine Green, Laparoscopy, Mini-invasive Surgery, Splenic Artery 
Aneurysm.

Publisher: Un’adeguata gestione degli aneurismi dell’arteria splenica richiede 
una attenta valutazione della posizione dell’aneurisma, dei rischi operatori, 
dell’ età e dello stato clinico del paziente. L’uso del verde di indocianina 
nella chirurgia splenica aiuta a valutare il parenchima splenico e la 
vascolarizzazione residua. Riportiamo il caso di un uomo di 54 anni giunto in 
pronto soccorso con dolore addominale, episodio sincopale e tachicardia. La TAC 
con mezzo di contrasto evidenziava emoperitoneo con un aneurisma splenico di 20 
mm, localizzato in sede perilare. Vista la stabilità emodinamica, il paziente 
veniva sottoposto ad esplorazione laparoscopica, in cui si evidenziava una 
raccolta sieroemorragica senza segni di sanguinamento attivo. Dopo aver aperto 
il legamento gastro- colico e ottenuto il controllo vascolare dell’arteria 
splenica, l’aneurisma è stato resecato. Non sono state identificate modifiche 
macroscopiche alla milza. Tale reperto è stato confermato anche dalla 
somministrazione endovenosa di verde indocianina. Durante il decorso 
postoperatorio, è comparsa una fistola pancreatica di grado A, risoltasi con la 
sola terapia medica. Il paziente è stato quindi dimesso in settima giornata 
postoperatoria.

PMID: 35122425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Musculoskeletal Care. 2022 Sep;20(3):487-502. doi: 10.1002/msc.1616. Epub
2022  Feb 4.

Does preoperative physiotherapy improve outcomes in patients undergoing total 
knee arthroplasty? A systematic review.

Vasileiadis D(1), Drosos G(2), Charitoudis G(2), Dontas I(1), Vlamis J(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Research of the Musculoskeletal System, KAT General Hospital, 
School of Medicine, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, 
Greece.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School, Democritus University of 
Thrace, University General Hospital of Alexandroupolis, Alexandroupolis, Greece.
(3)3rd Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Athens, KAT Hospital, 
Athens, Greece.

OBJECTIVE: To systematically review the scientific literature and to investigate 
the effectiveness of preoperative rehabilitation on subjective and objective 
outcomes after total knee arthroplasty (TKA) when compared with patients in a 
control group.
DATA SOURCES: A search was conducted in PubMed, PubMed Central, Embase, Cochrane 
Library and Physiotherapy Evidence Database databases in May 2021.
STUDY SELECTION: randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were reviewed if they 
compared a preoperative physiotherapy exercise intervention with no intervention 
group for patients undergoing TKA for severe Osteoarthritis (OA). A total of 24 
RCTs were included at the end of the evaluation process. By the end of the 
evaluation process, a total of 24 RCTs were included.
DATA EXTRACTION: Two authors independently screened the literature, extracted 
data, and assessed the quality of included studies. The outcomes were knee 
extension, knee flexion, pain Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), overall Western 
Ontario and McMaster Universities OA Index, 6 min walking test, and Timed Up and 
Go test.
RESULTS: The majority of the studies included in this systemic review 
demonstrated a comparable trend of long-term postoperative improvement of knee 
extension strength, VAS, range of movement and functional scores, and those of 
quality of life between two groups. Many studies showed a significant 
improvement in terms of preoperative pain, length of hospital stay and 
functional performance shortly after the operation, but all studies failed to 
show a prolonged effect on knee motion or patient function between 3 and 
12 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Low to moderate evidence from mostly small RCTs demonstrated that 
preoperative physiotherapy interventions reduce pain and improve functional 
performance for patients with knee OA prior shortly after the TKA.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/msc.1616
PMID: 35122455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2022 Jun;29(29):44003-44019. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-022-18953-1. Epub 2022 Feb 5.

Potential distribution of Blumea balsamifera in China using MaxEnt and the ex 
situ conservation based on its effective components and fresh leaf yield.

Guan L(#)(1), Yang Y(#)(2), Jiang P(3), Mou Q(4), Gou Y(4), Zhu X(4), Xu YW(5), 
Wang R(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Tropical Crops Genetic Resources Institute, Chinese Academy of Tropical 
Agricultural Sciences, Haikou, 571101, People's Republic of China.
(2)Sichuan Provincial Key Laboratory of Quality and Innovation Research of 
Chinese Materia Medica, Sichuan Academy of Traditional Chinese Medicine 
Sciences, 610041, Chengdu, People's Republic of China.
(3)College of Environment and Resources, Southwest University of Science and 
Technology, Mianyang, 621010, People's Republic of China.
(4)College of Life Science & Biotechnology, Mianyang Normal University, 
