Mianyang, 621000, People's Republic of China.
(5)Institute of Botany, Chengdu Labbio Biotechnology Co., Ltd., Chengdu, 610000, 
People's Republic of China. xuywen@qq.com.
(6)School of Atmospheric Sciences & Plateau Atmosphere and Environment Key 
Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Chengdu University of Information Technology, 
Chengdu, 610225, China. wrl_1986_1@163.com.
(7)Water-Saving Agriculture in Southern Hill Area Key Laboratory of Sichuan 
Province, Chengdu Sichuan, 610066, China. wrl_1986_1@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Blumea balsamifera is a famous Chinese Minority Medicine, which has a long 
history in Miao, Li, Zhuang, and other minority areas. In recent years, due to 
the influence of natural and human factors, the distribution area of B. 
balsamifera resources has a decreasing trend. Therefore, it is very important to 
analyze the suitability of B. balsamifera in China. Following three climate 
change scenarios (SSP1-2.6, SSP2-4.5, and SSP5-8.5) under 2050s and 2070s, 
geographic information technology (GIS) and maximum entropy model (MaxEnt) were 
used to simulate the ecological suitability of B. balsamifera. The contents of 
L-borneol and total flavonoids of B. balsamifera in different populations were 
determined by gas chromatography (GC) and ultraviolet spectrophotometry (UV). 
The results showed that the key environmental variables affecting the 
distribution of B. balsamifera were mean temperature of coldest quarter 
(6.18-26.57 ℃), precipitation of driest quarter (22.46-169.7 mm), annual 
precipitation (518.36-1845.29 mm), and temperature seasonality (291.31-878.87). 
Under current climate situation, the highly suitable habitat was mainly located 
western Guangxi, southern Yunnan, most of Hainan, southwestern Guizhou, 
southwestern Guangdong, southeastern Fujian, and western Taiwan, with a total 
area of 24.1 × 104 km2. The areas of the moderately and poorly suitable habitats 
were 27.57 × 104 km2 and 42.43 × 104 km2, respectively. Under the future climate 
change scenarios, the areas of the highly, moderately, and poorly suitable 
habitats of B. balsamifera showed a significant increasing trend, the geometric 
center of the total suitable habitats of B. balsamifera would move to the 
northeast. In recent years, the planting area of B. balsamifera has been reduced 
on a large scale in Guizhou, and its ex situ protection is imperative. By 
comparison, the content of L-borneol, total flavonoids and fresh leaf yield had 
no significant difference between Guizhou and Hainan (P > 0.05), which indicated 
that Hainan is one of the best choice for ex situ protection of B. balsamifera.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-022-18953-1
PMID: 35122650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. EBioMedicine. 2022 Feb;76:103840. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2022.103840. Epub
2022  Feb 2.

Immune checkpoint blockade in HIV.

Gubser C(1), Chiu C(1), Lewin SR(2), Rasmussen TA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, The University of Melbourne at the Peter 
Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity, 792 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, 
Victoria 3000, Australia.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, The University of Melbourne at the Peter 
Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity, 792 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, 
Victoria 3000, Australia; Victorian Infectious Diseases Service, Royal Melbourne 
Hospital at the Peter Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity, Melbourne, 
Australia; Department of Infectious Diseases, Alfred Hospital and Monash 
University, Melbourne, Australia. Electronic address: 
sharon.lewin@unimelb.edu.au.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, The University of Melbourne at the Peter 
Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity, 792 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, 
Victoria 3000, Australia; Department of Infectious Diseases, Aarhus University 
Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.

Antiretroviral therapy (ART) has dramatically improved life expectancy for 
people with HIV (PWH) and helps to restore immune function but is not curative 
and must be taken lifelong. Achieving long term control of HIV in the absence of 
ART will likely require potent T cell function, but chronic HIV infection is 
associated with immune exhaustion that persists even on ART. This is driven by 
elevated expression of immune checkpoints that provide negative signalling to T 
cells. In individuals with cancer, immune checkpoint blockade augments 
tumour-directed T-cell responses resulting in significant clinical cures. There 
is therefore high interest if ICB can contribute to HIV cure or remission by 
reversing HIV-latency and/or drive recovery of HIV-specific T-cells. We here 
review recent evidence on the role of immune checkpoints in persistent HIV 
infection and discuss the potential for employing immune checkpoint blockade as 
a therapeutic approach to target HIV persistence on ART.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2022.103840
PMCID: PMC8882999
PMID: 35123267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests Dr. Lewin reports 
grants from National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC), grants from 
the National Institutes of Health (NIH), grants from the Australian Centre for 
HIV and Hepatitis (ACH2), during the conduct of the study; grants from amFAR, 
grants and personal fees from Gilead Sciences, grants and personal fees from 
Merck, grants from Melbourne HIV Cure Consortium, grants from Wellcome Trust, 
grants from NFACR, other from Callimune, personal fees and other from Abivax, 
personal fees from Geovax, personal fees and other from ViiV, personal fees from 
Tetralogic, personal fees from Bristol Myers Sqibb, other from Bionor, other 
from InniVirVax, other from Aelix Therapeutics, personal fees and other from 
Immunocore, other from Vaxxinity, grants from Leidos, personal fees from Esfam, 
other from ANRS Emerging Infectious Diseases, grants from NHMRC CRE, grants from 
NHMRC partnership project, outside the submitted work; In addition, Dr. Lewin 
has a patent International PCT patent (PCTAU2017050631) pending. Dr. Rasmussen 
reports grants from Melbourne HIV Cure Consortium, grants from ACH2, grants from 
Region Midt Denmark, outside the submitted work. Dr. Gubser reports grants from 
Novartis Research fellowship, grants from NHMRC, grants from ACH2, other from 
Millenium Science, grants from Doherty Grant scheme, other from ViiV, outside 
the submitted work. Dr. Chiu has nothing to disclose.


809. BMC Pulm Med. 2022 Feb 5;22(1):53. doi: 10.1186/s12890-022-01843-0.

STOP: an open label crossover trial to study ICS withdrawal in patients with a 
combination of obesity and low-inflammatory asthma and evaluate its effect on 
asthma control and quality of life.

Witte JA(1)(2), Braunstahl GJ(3)(4), Blox WJB(5), van 't Westeinde SC(6), In 't 
Veen JCCM(3)(4), Kappen JH(#)(3)(7), van Rossum EFC(#)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonology, STZ Centre of Excellence for Asthma and COPD, 
Franciscus Group, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. a.witte2@franciscus.nl.
(2)Department of Pulmonology, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. a.witte2@franciscus.nl.
(3)Department of Pulmonology, STZ Centre of Excellence for Asthma and COPD, 
Franciscus Group, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Pulmonology, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Pulmonology, Albert Schweitzer Ziekenhuis, Dordrecht, The 
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Pulmonology, Maasstad Ziekenhuis, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Immunomodulation and Tolerance Group, 
Inflammation Repair and Development, Imperial College, National Heart and Lung 
Institute, London, UK.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, and Obesity 
Center CGG (Centrum Gezond Gewicht), Erasmus MC, University Medical Center 
Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Asthma patients with obesity often have a high disease burden, 
despite the use of high-dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICS). In contrast to 
asthmatics with normal weight, the efficacy of ICS in patients with obesity and 
asthma is often relatively low. Meanwhile, patients do suffer from side effects, 
such as weight gain, development of diabetes, cataract, or high blood pressure. 
The relatively poor response to ICS might be explained by the low prevalence of 
type 2 inflammatory patterns (T2-low) in patients with asthma and obesity. 
T2-low inflammation is characterized by low eosinophilic count, low Fractional 
exhaled NO (FeNO), no clinically allergy-driven asthma, and no need for 
maintenance oral corticosteroids (OCS). We aim to study whether ICS can be 
safely withdrawn in patients with T2-low asthma and obesity while maintaining an 
equal level of asthma control. Secondary outcomes focus on the prevalence of 
'false-negative' T2-low phenotypes (i.e. T2-hidden) and the effect of ICS 
withdrawal on parameters of the metabolic syndrome. This study will lead to a 
better understanding of this poorly understood subgroup and might find new 
treatable traits.
METHODS: The STOP trial is an investigator-initiated, multicenter, 
non-inferiority, open-label, crossover study aiming to assess whether ICS can be 
safely withdrawn in adults aged 17-75 years with T2-low asthma and obesity (body 
mass index (BMI) ≥ 30 kg/m2). Patients will be randomly divided into two arms 
(both n = 60). One arm will start with fixed-dose ICS (control group) and one 
arm will taper and subsequently stop ICS (intervention group). Patients in the 
intervention group will remain ICS naïve for ten weeks. After a washout of 
4 weeks, patients will crossover to the other study arm. The crossover study 
takes 36 weeks to complete. Patients will be asked to participate in the 
extension study, to investigate the long-term metabolic benefits of ICS 
withdrawal.
DISCUSSION: This study yields valuable data on ICS tapering in patients with 
T2-low asthma and obesity. It informs future guidelines and committees on 
corticosteroid-sparing algorithms in these patients. Trial registration 
Netherlands Trial Register, NL8759, registered 2020-07-06, 
https://www.trialregister.nl/trial/8759 . Protocol version and date: version 
2.1, 20 November 2020.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12890-022-01843-0
PMCID: PMC8818143
PMID: 35123457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The before named authors report no conflict of 
interest.


810. Semin Oncol. 2022 Feb;49(1):60-68. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2022.01.001.
Epub  2022 Jan 15.

"Off-the-shelf" immunotherapies for multiple myeloma.

Mohammed T(1), Mailankody S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Connecticut School of Medicine, 
Farmington, CT.
(2)Myeloma Service, Cellular Therapeutics Center, Department of Medicine, 
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY. Electronic address: 
mailanks@mskcc.org.

Over the past couple of decades, the life expectancy of patients with multiple 
myeloma (MM) has progressively increased, however, the disease per se remains 
incurable. This has resulted in a subset of the patient population who have 
progressed despite multiple standard treatment options but remain amenable for 
novel therapies to achieve durable remission. With the discovery of the role of 
B-Cell Maturation Antigen (BCMA) in the pathogenesis of MM, strategies targeting 
the BCMA have been the focus of many treatment modalities in development. 
Although autologous CAR-T cell therapy has shown an overall efficacy of >80% 
across various phases of studies, it has its own set of limitations and 
challenges. There is now an increasing focus on identifying novel therapeutic 
targets for multiple myeloma and developing "off-the-shelf" immunotherapeutic 
approaches for treatment of MM. This review discusses and highlights the 
emerging data from various ongoing trials on "off-the-shelf" approaches like 
antibody-drug conjugates, bispecific antibodies, and allogeneic cellular 
therapies demonstrating feasibility, acceptable safety, and promising 
preliminary efficacy. Ongoing and future efforts will need to focus on 
comparative effectiveness of these different approaches, possible combination 
strategies, and ensuring equitable and affordable access to these therapies 
globally.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2022.01.001
PMID: 35123801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2022 Nov;48(11):2323-2329. doi:
10.1016/j.ejso.2022.01.019.  Epub 2022 Jan 21.

The role of surgery in the palliation of advanced pelvic malignancy.

Chang KH(1), Solomon MJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, 
Australia; Chris O'Brien Lifehouse Cancer Centre, Sydney, Australia.
(2)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, 
Australia; Surgical Outcomes Research Centre (SOuRCe), Sydney, Australia; The 
Institute of Academic Surgery at RPA, Sydney Local Health District, Australia; 
Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of Sydney, Australia; Chris O'Brien 
Lifehouse Cancer Centre, Sydney, Australia. Electronic address: 
professor.solomon@sydney.edu.au.

Advanced pelvic malignancy, regardless of the cancer of origin, is often 
multivisceral and complex. The management of advanced pelvic malignancy is 
resource-intensive and requires multidisciplinary input. The definition of 
resectability is evolving with improving multimodal therapy, preoperative 
staging and optimisation, perioperative care, and advanced surgical techniques. 
Pelvic exenteration is a highly morbid procedure and has been shown to improve 
survival and quality of life when performed with a curative intent. Unresectable 
distant solid organ or lymph node metastases and an inability to achieve a clear 
resection margin preclude curative pelvic exenteration. Patients with advanced 
pelvic malignancy who are deemed palliative are mostly managed by non-operative 
treatment such as chemo-, radio-, immuno-, hormonal therapy, pain management and 
palliative care, as well as allied health and psychosocial support team. These 
patients may present with severe and debilitating symptoms including intractable 
pain, ulcerating/proliferating tumour, pelvic fistula/sepsis/bleeding, urinary 
and bowel obstruction/incontinence. Interventional radiological and surgical 
procedures such as percutaneous drainage, nephrostomy, intestinal and urinary 
diversion, intestinal bypass, and venting gastrostomy have an important role in 
symptom control and improving quality of life. Palliative pelvic exenteration 
should be carefully considered along with life expectancy, patient wishes and 
tumour characteristics. Comprehensive discussion with patient is crucial to 
achieve realistic expectations. These patients should not only be discussed in a 
multidisciplinary team meeting with palliative care input, but also be referred 
for a formal palliative care consultation. Tumour anatomical extent should be 
considered both for and against pelvic exenteration whether involving the 
posterior compartment i.e. sacrectomy; lateral compartment incorporating 
neurovascular bundle and the anterior compartment requiring pubic bone excision 
as all can be associated with high morbidity rates. Patient recovery may be 
protracted too if surgery is complicated by perineal wound or flap breakdown in 
cases necessitating wide perineal skin and soft tissue excision. Furthermore, 
evidence from quality of life and cost-effectiveness studies do not provide 
robust data to support pelvic exenteration with palliative intent. Whilst a 
relatively 'straightforward' central soft tissue pelvic exenteration may offer 
reasonable symptomatic relief in a patient with an acceptable life expectancy, 
palliative pelvic exenteration overall should only be considered in highly 
selected patients.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2022.01.019
PMID: 35123817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


812. Patient Educ Couns. 2022 Jul;105(7):2531-2536. doi:
10.1016/j.pec.2022.01.017.  Epub 2022 Jan 31.

Moral distress among nurses involved in life-prolonging treatments in patients 
with a short life expectancy: A qualitative interview study.

Arends SAM(1), Steenbergen M(2), Thodé M(3), Francke AL(4), Jongerden IP(5).

Author information:
(1)Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Department of Public and 
Occupational Health and Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands. Electronic address: s.a.arends@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)UMC Utrecht, Department of Internal Medicine Utrecht, Netherlands. Electronic 
address: milousteenbergen@gmail.com.
(3)Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Department of Public and 
Occupational Health and Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands. Electronic address: m.thode@amsterdamumc.nl.
(4)Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Department of Public and 
Occupational Health and Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands; Nivel. Netherlands Institute for Health Services Research, P.O. Box 
1568, 3500 BN Utrecht, Netherlands. Electronic address: A.Francke@nivel.nl.
(5)Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Department of Public and 
Occupational Health and Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands. Electronic address: i.jongerden@amsterdamumc.nl.

OBJECTIVE: To explore whether nurses in hospital settings experience moral 
distress when involved in potentially life-prolonging treatments in adults with 
a short life expectancy.
METHODS: A qualitative study using semi-structured interviews.
RESULTS: 23 Registered nurses working in inpatient or outpatient hospital 
settings participated. The nurses stated they were often not involved in 
decisions regarding life-prolonging treatments. They reported signs of moral 
distress such as feeling powerless when they when they were not being listened 
to in the decision-making process and when confronted with negative treatment 
outcomes. Nurses felt frustrated when their own values were not reflected in the 
decision-making or when physicians created unrealistic expectations.
CONCLUSIONS: Hospital nurses experience moral distress when they are involved in 
life-prolonging treatment because of the patient's advanced condition and their 
own lack of involvement in the decision-making process about the treatment. In 
these situations, moral distress is characterised by feelings of powerlessness 
and frustration.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: Nurses need to be empowered by training programmes that 
focus on an active role in the decision-making process. Further research is 
needed to evaluate effective tools and training programmes that help nurses in 
shared decision-making processes.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2022.01.017
PMID: 35123835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2022 Jul;34(7):472-479. doi: 
10.1016/j.clon.2022.01.006. Epub 2022 Feb 3.

Care of Seniors with Breast Cancer - Treatment Received and Refining Decision 
Making.

Allen T(1), James M(2), Frampton C(3), Robinson B(2), Withers N(3).

Author information:
(1)Canterbury Regional Cancer and Blood Service, Christchurch Hospital, 
Christchurch, New Zealand. Electronic address: Tim.Allen@cdhb.health.nz.
(2)Canterbury Regional Cancer and Blood Service, Christchurch Hospital, 
Christchurch, New Zealand; University of Otago Christchurch, Department of 
Medicine, Christchurch Hospital, Christchurch, New Zealand.
(3)University of Otago Christchurch, Department of Medicine, Christchurch 
Hospital, Christchurch, New Zealand.

AIMS: Treatment decisions for older patients with breast cancer are complex and 
evidence is largely extrapolated from younger populations. Frailty and 
comorbidity need to be considered. We studied the baseline characteristics and 
treatment decisions in older patients in Christchurch with breast cancer and 
assessed survival outcomes and prognostic/discriminatory performance of several 
tools.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We searched the Canterbury Breast Cancer Registry and 
identified patients aged 70 years or older at diagnosis with invasive, 
non-metastatic breast cancer between 1 June 2009 and 30 June 2015. We retrieved 
demographics, treatment and outcome information. Overall survival and breast 
cancer-specific survival were estimated. Tools analysing performance status and 
comorbidity were assessed for their prognostic and discriminatory power.
RESULTS: In total, 440 patients were identified. Primary surgery was carried out 
for 362 patients (82.3%): breast-conserving surgery in 114 (of whom 88.6% 
received radiation therapy); mastectomy in 248 (of whom 24.6% received 
radiation). Hormone therapy was given for 265 (71.1%) patients with oestrogen 
receptor-positive cancers. Two hundred and seventy-four (62.3%) patients 
received full standard treatment, which was associated with significantly 
improved 5-year survival and 5-year breast cancer-specific survival. The median 
estimated overall survival was 8.2 years (95% confidence interval 7.3-9.1 
years). Of those who died, 71.3% of deaths were due to causes other than breast 
cancer or unknown causes. The comorbidity-adjusted life expectancy (CALE) showed 
partial prognostic accuracy. CALE, Charlson and Eastern Cooperative Oncology 
Group tools all showed discriminatory value.
CONCLUSION: In this population-based series of older patients with breast 
cancer, showing high levels of primary and adjuvant treatment, patients were 
more likely to die of causes other than breast cancer. Performance status and 
comorbidity tools showed prognostic and discriminatory potential in this 
population supporting their use in treatment decision making. CALE showed the 
most potential to improve treatment decisions but requires validation in this 
population to improve prognostic accuracy.

Copyright © 2022 The Royal College of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clon.2022.01.006
PMID: 35123852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Mech Ageing Dev. 2022 Apr;203:111638. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2022.111638. Epub
2022  Feb 3.

Serum testosterone concentrations are not associated with frailty in naturally 
ageing and testosterone-deficient older C57Bl/6 mice.

Heinze-Milne SD(1), Banga S(1), Godin J(2), Howlett SE(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Canada.
(2)Geriatric Medicine Research, Nova Scotia Health Authority, NS, Canada.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Canada; Department of Medicine (Geriatric 
Medicine), Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada. Electronic address: 
susan.howlett@dal.ca.

This study investigated how serum testosterone related to frailty in ageing male 
C57Bl/6 mice with or without lifelong testosterone deficiency. Mice underwent a 
sham surgery (n = 10) or gonadectomy (n = 11, GDX) at 4-weeks and then aged. 
Frailty scores (31-item frailty index) and testosterone were measured between 
18- to 24-months of age. Age predicted frailty (p < 0.0001), but serum 
testosterone did not (p = 0.357). Life expectancy (AFRAID clock) and biologic 
age (FRIGHT clock) were not significantly different between groups (p = 0.485 
and 0.142). The fact that lifelong testosterone deficiency did not exacerbate 
frailty suggests that low testosterone alone does not potently drive frailty in 
males.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2022.111638
PMID: 35124093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Am J Obstet Gynecol MFM. 2022 May;4(3):100588. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajogmf.2022.100588. Epub 2022 Feb 3.

Tranexamic acid for the treatment of postpartum hemorrhage: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Howard DC(1), Jones AE(2), Skeith A(3), Lai J(4), D'Souza R(5), Caughey AB(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The University of Arizona College of 
Medicine, Tucson, AZ (Dr Howard); Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR (Dr Howard, Ms Jones, and Drs 
Skeith and Caughey). Electronic address: dagnieh@obgyn.arizona.edu.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oregon Health & Science University, 
Portland, OR (Dr Howard, Ms Jones, and Drs Skeith and Caughey).
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
MI (Dr Skeith); Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oregon Health & Science 
University, Portland, OR (Dr Howard, Ms Jones, and Drs Skeith and Caughey).
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Scripps Memorial Hospital, San 
Diego, CA (Dr Lai).
(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada (Dr D'Souza).

BACKGROUND: Postpartum hemorrhage is a leading cause of pregnancy-related 
morbidity and mortality. Recent data have demonstrated that tranexamic acid 
reduces death because of bleeding when used as a treatment for postpartum 
hemorrhage. The World Health Organization now recommends tranexamic acid as a 
first-line treatment for postpartum hemorrhage; however, data are not yet 
available on the frequency of use in the United States, where tranexamic acid is 
currently recognized as an adjunct treatment for postpartum hemorrhage.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to strengthen the current evidence that tranexamic acid 
should be recognized as a first-line treatment for postpartum hemorrhage, even 
in high-resource countries. Furthermore, we aimed to determine whether early 
administration of tranexamic acid (within 3 hours of diagnosis) is a 
cost-effective strategy for reducing maternal morbidity and mortality from 
postpartum hemorrhage in the United States.
STUDY DESIGN: A decision-analytical model was designed to compare the outcomes 
and costs of the administration of tranexamic acid in the treatment of 
postpartum hemorrhage. Moreover, this model was used to compare outcomes for 
early administration with those of routine use. The interventions compared were 
1 g of intravenous tranexamic acid or matching placebo. The risks analyzed in 
the model were death because of hemorrhage and laparotomy to control bleeding. 
Probabilities, utilities, and costs were derived from literature. 
Quality-adjusted life-years were calculated using a discounted life expectancy 
rate of 3%. Cost-effectiveness was determined on the basis of a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $100,000 per quality-adjusted life year.
RESULTS: The administration of tranexamic acid to a theoretical cohort of 
100,000 women would prevent 11 maternal deaths, 6 postpartum laparotomies after 
vaginal delivery, and 112 reoperations after cesarean delivery. This would lead 
to an increase in 329 quality-adjusted life years and a total cost savings of 
$15.39 million. Furthermore, if tranexamic acid were administered early (within 
3 hours of postpartum hemorrhage diagnosis) to the same theoretical cohort, 16 
maternal deaths owing to hemorrhage, 9 laparotomies, and 155 reoperations would 
be prevented. This amounts to an increase in 438 quality-adjusted life years and 
an annual cost savings of $23.15 million. A sensitivity analysis showed that the 
administration of tranexamic acid was the dominant strategy at all probabilities 
of maternal death owing to hemorrhage >0.00002. When the cost of tranexamic acid 
was varied, the administration of tranexamic acid remained dominant up to a cost 
of $267 per administration in the United States if given within the first 3 
hours. Furthermore, in a Monte Carlo probabilistic sensitivity analysis, the 
early administration of tranexamic acid remained the dominant strategy (both 
lowered costs and improved outcomes) in 99.8% of models.
CONCLUSION: Early administration of tranexamic acid was a cost-effective 
strategy for reducing maternal morbidity and mortality owing to postpartum 
hemorrhage in the United States.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajogmf.2022.100588
PMID: 35124299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. J Psychosom Res. 2022 Apr;155:110747. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychores.2022.110747.
 Epub 2022 Jan 31.

Depression interventions for individuals with coronary artery disease - 
Cost-effectiveness calculations from an Irish perspective.

Jabakhanji SB(1), Sorensen J(2), Carney RM(3), Dickens C(4), Dempster M(5), 
Gallagher J(6), Caramlau I(7), Doyle F(8).

Author information:
(1)Healthcare Outcomes Research Centre, RCSI University of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Dublin, Ireland. Electronic address: samirabjabakhanji@rcsi.ie.
(2)Healthcare Outcomes Research Centre, RCSI University of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Dublin, Ireland.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, 
MO, USA.
(4)College of Medicine and Health, University of Exeter, Exeter, United Kingdom.
(5)School of Psychology, Queen's University Belfast, Northern Ireland, United 
Kingdom.
(6)Department of Cardiology, Beaumont Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.
(7)Department of Psychology, Beaumont Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.
(8)Department of Health Psychology, RCSI University of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Dublin, Ireland.

BACKGROUND: A substantial proportion of individuals with coronary artery disease 
experience moderate or severe acute depression that requires treatment. We 
assessed the cost-effectiveness of four interventions for depression in 
individuals with coronary artery disease.
METHODS: We assessed effectiveness of pharmacotherapy, psychotherapy, 
collaborative care and exercise as remission rate after 8 and 26 weeks using 
estimates from a recent network meta-analysis. The cost assessment included 
standard doses of antidepressants, contact frequency, and staff time per 
contact. Unit costs were calculated as health services' purchase price for 
pharmaceuticals and mid-point staff salaries obtained from the Irish Health 
Service Executive and validated by clinical staff. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated as the incremental costs over 
incremental remissions compared to usual care. High- and low-cost scenarios and 
sensitivity analysis were performed with changed contact frequencies, and 
assuming individual vs. group psychotherapy or exercise.
RESULTS: After 8 weeks, the estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 
lowest for group exercise (€526 per remission), followed by pharmacotherapy 
(€589), individual psychotherapy (€3117) and collaborative care (€4964). After 
26 weeks, pharmacotherapy was more cost-effective (€591) than collaborative care 
(€7203) and individual psychotherapy (€9387); no 26-week assessment for exercise 
was possible. Sensitivity analysis showed that group psychotherapy could be most 
cost-effective after 8 weeks (€519) and cost-effective after 26 weeks (€1565); 
however no group psychotherapy trials were available investigating its 
effectiveness.
DISCUSSION: Large variation in incremental cost-effectiveness ratios was seen. 
With the current assumptions, the most cost-effective depression intervention 
for individuals with coronary artery disease after 8 weeks was group exercise.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychores.2022.110747
PMID: 35124528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Eur J Health Econ. 2022 Nov;23(8):1397-1411. doi:
10.1007/s10198-022-01439-9.  Epub 2022 Feb 6.

Does voluntary health insurance improve health and longevity? Evidence from 
European OECD countries.

Dragos SL(1), Mare C(2)(3), Dragos CM(4), Muresan GM(1), Purcel AA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Finance, Faculty of Economics and Business Administration, 
Babeș-Bolyai University, 58-60, Teodor Mihali str., 400591, Cluj-Napoca, 
Romania.
(2)Department of Statistics-Forecasts-Mathematics, Faculty of Economics and 
Business Administration, Babeș-Bolyai University, 58-60, Teodor Mihali str., 
400591, Cluj-Napoca, Romania. codruta.mare@econ.ubbcluj.ro.
(3)Interdisciplinary Centre for Data Science, Babeș-Bolyai University, 68, Avram 
Iancu str., 4th floor, 400083, Cluj-Napoca, Romania. 
codruta.mare@econ.ubbcluj.ro.
(4)Department of Statistics-Forecasts-Mathematics, Faculty of Economics and 
Business Administration, Babeș-Bolyai University, 58-60, Teodor Mihali str., 
400591, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.

The financing structure of the healthcare system and, particularly, the 
voluntary health insurance (VHI) constituent, has been a vital pillar in 
improving the overall quality of life. Consequently, this study aims to shed 
light on the effect of VHI on the population's health and longevity in a sample 
of 26 European OECD countries. The methodology employed covers both hierarchical 
clustering and the novel dynamic panel threshold technique. First, the 
descriptive cluster analysis unveils a delimitation of the countries into four 
main groups with respect to a broad set of health status indicators. Second, the 
estimates show that VHI is a significant determinant of health and longevity. 
More specifically, we find that the relationship between variables is 
characterized by a threshold effect, whose estimated value is roughly 6.3% of 
the total healthcare financing. Also, the heterogeneity analysis unveils 
consistent differences regarding the impact of VHI on health and longevity for 
the supplementary and complementary types of VHI. Overall, results are strongly 
robust, the signs and the significance of the coefficients being preserved in 
the presence of several additional control factors. From a policy perspective, 
the study's findings can be used nationwide to stimulate regulatory policies to 
encourage the achievement of a satisfactory level of private health insurance.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-022-01439-9
PMID: 35124741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Health Technol Assess. 2022 Jan;26(9):1-136. doi: 10.3310/CWIB0236.

A multidomain decision support tool to prevent falls in older people: the FinCH 
cluster RCT.

Logan PA(1)(2)(3)(4), Horne JC(1), Allen F(1), Armstrong SJ(1), Clark AB(5)(6), 
Conroy S(7), Darby J(1), Fox C(5), Gladman JR(1)(3)(4)(8), Godfrey M(1), Gordon 
AL(1)(3)(4)(9), Irvine L(10), Leighton P(1), McCartney K(1), Mountain G(11), 
Robertson K(1), Robinson K(1)(8), Sach TH(5), Stirling S(5)(6), Wilson EC(6), 
Sims EJ(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(2)Community Rehabilitation Team, Nottingham CityCare Partnership, Nottingham, 
UK.
(3)National Institute for Health Research Applied Research Collaboration East 
Midlands, Leicester General Hospital, Leicester, UK.
(4)National Institute for Health Research Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre, 
Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham, UK.
(5)Norwich Clinical Trials Unit, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK.
(6)Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK.
(7)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.
(8)Health Care of the Elderly Directorate, Nottingham University Hospitals, 
Nottingham, UK.
(9)Medical School, University Hospitals of Derby and Burton NHS Foundation 
Trust, Derby, UK.
(10)Centre for Research in Public Health and Community Care, University of 
Hertfordshire, Hatfield, UK.
(11)Centre for Applied Dementia Studies, University of Bradford, Bradford, UK.

BACKGROUND: Falls in care home residents are common, unpleasant, costly and 
difficult to prevent.
OBJECTIVES: The objectives were to evaluate the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of the Guide to Action for falls prevention in Care Homes 
(GtACH) programme.
DESIGN: A multicentre, cluster, parallel, 1 : 1 randomised controlled trial with 
embedded process evaluation and economic evaluation. Care homes were randomised 
on a 1 : 1 basis to the GtACH programme or usual care using a secure web-based 
randomisation service. Research assistants, participating residents and staff 
informants were blind to allocation at recruitment; research assistants were 
blind to allocation at follow-up. NHS Digital data were extracted blindly.
SETTING: Older people's care homes from 10 UK sites.
PARTICIPANTS: Older care home residents.
INTERVENTION: The GtACH programme, which includes care home staff training, 
systematic use of a multidomain decision support tool and implementation of 
falls prevention actions, compared to usual falls prevention care.
OUTCOMES: The primary trial outcome was the rate of falls per participating 
resident occurring during the 90-day period between 91 and 180 days post 
randomisation. The primary outcome for the cost-effectiveness analysis was the 
cost per fall averted, and the primary outcome for the cost-utility analysis was 
the incremental cost per quality adjusted life-year. Secondary outcomes included 
the rate of falls over days 0-90 and 181-360 post randomisation, activity 
levels, dependency and fractures. The number of falls per resident was compared 
between arms using a negative binomial regression model (generalised estimating 
equation).
RESULTS: A total of 84 care homes were randomised: 39 to the GtACH arm and 45 to 
the control arm. A total of 1657 residents consented and provided baseline 
measures (mean age 85 years, 32% men). GtACH programme training was delivered to 
1051 staff (71% of eligible staff) over 146 group sessions. Primary outcome data 
were available for 630 GtACH participants and 712 control participants. The 
primary outcome result showed an unadjusted incidence rate ratio of 0.57 (95% CI 
0.45 to 0.71; p < 0.01) in favour of the GtACH programme. Falls rates were lower 
in the GtACH arm in the period 0-90 days. There were no other differences 
between arms in the secondary outcomes. Care home staff valued the training, 
systematic strategies and specialist peer support, but the incorporation of the 
GtACH programme documentation into routine care home practice was limited. No 
adverse events were recorded. The incremental cost was £20,889.42 per Dementia 
Specific Quality of Life-based quality-adjusted life-year and £4543.69 per 
quality-adjusted life-year based on the EuroQol-5 dimensions, five-level 
version. The mean number of falls was 1.889 (standard deviation 3.662) in the 
GtACH arm and 2.747 (standard deviation 7.414) in the control arm. Therefore, 
0.858 falls were averted. The base-case incremental cost per fall averted was 
£190.62.
CONCLUSION: The GtACH programme significantly reduced the falls rate in the 
study care homes without restricting residents' activity levels or increasing 
their dependency, and was cost-effective at current thresholds in the NHS.
FUTURE WORK: Future work should include a broad implementation programme, 
focusing on scale and sustainability of the GtACH programme.
LIMITATIONS: A key limitation was the fact that care home staff were not 
blinded, although risk was small because of the UK statutory requirement to 
record falls in care homes.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial is registered as ISRCTN34353836.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research 
(NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in 
Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 26, No. 9. See the NIHR Journals Library 
website for further project information.

Plain Language Summary: Falls in care home residents are common, unpleasant, 
costly and hard to prevent. We tested whether or not the Guide to Action for 
falls prevention in Care Homes (GtACH) programme was effective in preventing 
falls. In this programme, care home staff were systematically trained and 
supported in the assessment of residents’ risk of falling and the generation of 
a falls reduction care plan. We undertook a randomised controlled trial 
comparing the GtACH programme with usual care, which does not involve this 
systematic attention to falls prevention. We also undertook a process 
evaluation, observing organisational and care processes, and an economic study 
to evaluate value for money. A total of 39 care homes were randomly allocated to 
the GtACH programme and 45 care homes were randomly allocated to usual care, 
involving a total of 1657 residents. The main comparison between the two arms 
was the rate of falls during months 4–6 after randomisation, when we expected 
any effect to be at its peak. We also assessed the falls rates before and 6 
months after this period. We measured activity and dependency levels, as it was 
important to be sure that any reduction in the rate of falls was not achieved 
through restrictive care practices. We saw a 43% reduction in the falls rates of 
the GtACH programme participants during months 4–6, without observing any 
reduction in residents’ activity or dependency. Care home staff and relatives 
were positive about the GtACH programme. The GtACH programme was good value for 
money, as it was likely to be cost-effective. The effect of the programme waned 
over months 6–12, which may be because some staff did not embed the GtACH 
programme in their usual practice routines, and awareness levels may have 
dropped.

DOI: 10.3310/CWIB0236
PMCID: PMC8859771
PMID: 35125131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Neuromodulation. 2022 Feb;25(2):253-262. doi: 10.1111/ner.13410.

Deep Brain Stimulation Compared With Contingency Management for the Treatment of 
Cocaine Use Disorders: A Threshold and Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.

Kuijper FM(1), Mahajan UV(1), Ku S(2), Barbosa DAN(1), Alessi SM(3), Stein 
SC(4), Kampman KM(5), Bentzley BS(6), Halpern CH(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(3)UConn Health, Farmington, CT, USA.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA. Electronic address: bentzley@stanford.edu.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA. Electronic address: chalpern@stanford.edu.

OBJECTIVES: Cocaine is the second most frequently used illicit drug worldwide 
(after cannabis), and cocaine use disorder (CUD)-related deaths increased 
globally by 80% from 1990 to 2013. There is yet to be a regulatory-approved 
treatment. Emerging preclinical evidence indicates that deep brain stimulation 
(DBS) of the nucleus accumbens may be a therapeutic option. Prior to expanding 
the costly investigation of DBS for treatment of CUD, it is important to ensure 
societal cost-effectiveness.
AIMS: We conducted a threshold and cost-effectiveness analysis to determine the 
success rate at which DBS would be equivalent to contingency management (CM), 
recently identified as the most efficacious therapy for treatments of CUDs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Quality of life, efficacy, and safety parameters for CM 
were obtained from previous literature. Costs were calculated from a societal 
perspective. Our model predicted the utility benefit based on quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) and incremental-cost-effectiveness ratio resulting from two 
treatments on a one-, two-, and five-year timeline.
RESULTS: On a one-year timeline, DBS would need to impart a success rate (ie, 
cocaine free) of 70% for it to yield the same utility benefit (0.492 QALYs per 
year) as CM. At no success rate would DBS be more cost-effective 
(incremental-cost-effectiveness ratio <$50,000) than CM during the first year. 
Nevertheless, as DBS costs are front loaded, DBS would need to achieve success 
rates of 74% and 51% for its cost-effectiveness to exceed that of CM over a two- 
and five-year period, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: We find DBS would not be cost-effective in the short term (one 
year) but may be cost-effective in longer timelines. Since DBS holds promise to 
potentially be a cost-effective treatment for CUDs, future randomized controlled 
trials should be performed to assess its efficacy.

Copyright © 2021 International Neuromodulation Society. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/ner.13410
PMID: 35125144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Fam Community Health. 2022 Apr-Jun 01;45(2):77-90. doi: 
10.1097/FCH.0000000000000318.

Inequalities in Life Expectancy Across North Carolina: A Spatial Analysis of the 
Social Determinants of Health and the Index of Concentration at Extremes.

Mitchell JH(1), Runkle JD, Andersen LM, Shay E, Sugg MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography and Planning, Appalachian State University, Boone, 
North Carolina (Mss Mitchell and Andersen and Drs Shay and Sugg); and North 
Carolina Institute for Climate Studies, North Carolina State University, 
Asheville, North Carolina (Dr Runkle).

Health inequalities are characterized by spatial patterns of social, economic, 
and political factors. Life expectancy (LE) is a commonly used indicator of 
overall population health and health inequalities that allows for comparison 
across different spatial and temporal regions. The objective of this study was 
to examine geographic inequalities in LE across North Carolina census tracts by 
comparing the performance of 2 popular geospatial health indices: Social 
Determinants of Health (SDoH) and the Index of Concentration at Extremes (ICE). 
A principal components analysis (PCA) was used to address multicollinearity 
among variables and aggregate data into components to examine SDoH, while the 
ICE was constructed using the simple subtraction of geospatial variables. 
Spatial regression models were employed to compare both indices in relation to 
LE to evaluate their predictability for population health. For individual SDoH 
and ICE components, poverty and income had the strongest positive correlation 
with LE. However, the common spatial techniques of adding PCA components 
together for a final SDoH aggregate measure resulted in a poor relationship with 
LE. Results indicated that both metrics can be used to determine spatial 
patterns of inequities in LE and that the ICE metric has similar success to the 
more computationally complex SDoH metric. Public health practitioners may find 
the ICE metric's high predictability matched with lower data requirements to be 
more feasible to implement in population health monitoring.

Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/FCH.0000000000000318
PMID: 35125487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Front Pharmacol. 2022 Jan 19;12:797292. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2021.797292. 
eCollection 2021.

Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis: An Update on Pathogenesis.

Mei Q(1), Liu Z(1), Zuo H(1), Yang Z(1), Qu J(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medicine, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of 
Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive, lethal fibrotic lung 
disease that occurs primarily in middle-aged and elderly adults. It is a major 
cause of morbidity and mortality. With an increase in life expectancy, the 
economic burden of IPF is expected to continuously rise in the near future. 
Although the exact pathophysiological mechanisms underlying IPF remain not 
known. Significant progress has been made in our understanding of the 
pathogenesis of this devastating disease in last decade. The current paradigm 
assumes that IPF results from sustained or repetitive lung epithelial injury and 
subsequent activation of fibroblasts and myofibroblast differentiation. 
Persistent myofibroblast phenotype contributes to excessive deposition of the 
extracellular matrix (ECM) and aberrant lung repair, leading to tissue scar 
formation, distortion of the alveolar structure, and irreversible loss of lung 
function. Treatments of patients with IPF by pirfenidone and nintedanib have 
shown significant reduction of lung function decline and slowing of disease 
progression in patients with IPF. However, these drugs do not cure the disease. 
In this review, we discuss recent advances on the pathogenesis of IPF and 
highlight the development of novel therapeutic strategies against the disease.

Copyright © 2022 Mei, Liu, Zuo, Yang and Qu.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2021.797292
PMCID: PMC8807692
PMID: 35126134

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


822. J Oncol. 2022 Jan 27;2022:7357637. doi: 10.1155/2022/7357637. eCollection
2022.

Machine Learning Analysis of Immune Cells for Diagnosis and Prognosis of 
Cutaneous Melanoma.

Du H(1), He Y(1), Lu W(1), Han Y(1), Wan Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, People's Hospital of Leshan, Leshan, China.

Tumor infiltration, known to associate with various cancer initiations and 
progressions, is a promising therapeutic target for aggressive cutaneous 
melanoma. Then, the relative infiltration of 24 kinds of immune cells in 
melanoma was assessed by a single sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) 
program from a public database. The multiple machine learning algorithms were 
applied to evaluate the efficiency of immune cells in diagnosing and predicting 
the prognosis of melanoma. In comparison with the expression of immune cell in 
tumor and normal control, we built the immune diagnostic models in training 
dataset, which can accurately classify melanoma patients from normal (LR 
AUC = 0.965, RF AUC = 0.99, SVM AUC = 0.963, LASSO AUC = 0.964, and NNET 
AUC = 0.989). These diagnostic models were also validated in three outside 
datasets and suggested over 90% AUC to distinguish melanomas from normal 
patients. Moreover, we also developed a robust immune cell biomarker that could 
estimate the prognosis of melanoma. This biomarker was also further validated in 
internal and external datasets. Following that, we created a nomogram with a 
composition of risk score and clinical parameters, which had high accuracies in 
predicting survival over three and five years. The nomogram's decision curve 
revealed a bigger net benefit than the tumor stage. Furthermore, a risk score 
system was used to categorize melanoma patients into high- and low-risk 
subgroups. The high-risk group has a significantly lower life expectancy than 
the low-risk subgroup. Finally, we observed that complement, 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and inflammatory response were significantly 
activated in the high-risk group. Therefore, the findings provide new insights 
for understanding the tumor infiltration relevant to clinical applications as a 
diagnostic or prognostic biomarker for melanoma.

Copyright © 2022 Huibin Du et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2022/7357637
PMCID: PMC8813285
PMID: 35126517

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interests.


823. J Healthc Eng. 2022 Jan 25;2022:1420392. doi: 10.1155/2022/1420392.
eCollection  2022.

Curative Effects of Remote Home Management Combined with Feng's Spinal 
Manipulation on the Treatment of Elderly Patients with Lumbar Disc Herniation.

Min Y(1), Xu P(2).

Author information:
(1)Pla Spine Center of Manipulative Orthopedics, Air Force Medical Center, Pla 
100142, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Baotou Mongolian Traditional Chinese 
Medicine Hospital, Baotou 014040, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the curative effects of remote home management combined 
with Feng's spinal manipulation on the treatment of elderly patients with lumbar 
disc herniation (LDH).
METHODS: The clinical data of 100 patients with LDH in our hospital (December 
2019-December 2020) were retrospectively reviewed. The 100 patients were equally 
divided into a routine treatment group and interventional group according to the 
order of admission. The routine treatment group received conventional 
rehabilitation training, and the interventional group received remote home 
management combined with Feng's spinal manipulation. The Oswestry disability 
index (ODI) and straight leg raising test were adopted for the assessment of the 
degrees of dysfunction and straight leg raising angles of the two groups after 
intervention. The curative effects of the two rehabilitation programs were 
evaluated.
RESULTS: Compared with the routine treatment group, the interventional group had 
a remarkably higher excellent and good rate (P < 0.05), a significantly lower 
average ODI score after intervention (P < 0.001), notably higher straight leg 
raising angle, surface AEMG (average electromyogram) during stretching and 
tenderness threshold after intervention (P < 0.001), markedly lower muscular 
tension, surface AEMG during buckling, and flexion-extension relaxation ratio 
(FRR; (P < 0.001)), and much higher quality of life scores after intervention (P 
< 0.001).
CONCLUSION: The remote home management combined with Feng's spinal manipulation, 
as a reliable method to improve the quality of life and the back muscular 
strength of the elderly patients with LDH, can substantially increase the 
straight leg raising angle and reduce the degree of dysfunction. Further study 
is conducive to establishing a better solution for the patients with LDH.

Copyright © 2022 Yaqing Min and Peng Xu.

DOI: 10.1155/2022/1420392
PMCID: PMC8808117
PMID: 35126896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.


824. J Adv Res. 2021 May 20;36:113-132. doi: 10.1016/j.jare.2021.05.007.
eCollection  2022 Feb.

Molecular mechanisms of amyloid disaggregation.

Low KJY(1), Venkatraman A(2), Mehta JS(2)(3)(4), Pervushin K(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore 
637551, Singapore.
(2)Singapore Eye Research Institute, The Academia, 20 College Road, Discovery 
Tower Level 6, Singapore 169856, Singapore.
(3)Singapore National Eye Centre, 11 Third Hospital Avenue, Singapore 168751, 
Singapore.
(4)Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences Academic Clinical Program, Duke-NUS 
Graduate Medical School, Singapore, Singapore 169857, Singapore.

INTRODUCTION: Protein aggregation and deposition of uniformly arranged amyloid 
fibrils in the form of plaques or amorphous aggregates is characteristic of 
amyloid diseases. The accumulation and deposition of proteins result in toxicity 
and cause deleterious effects on affected individuals known as amyloidosis. 
There are about fifty different proteins and peptides involved in amyloidosis 
including neurodegenerative diseases and diseases affecting vital organs. 
Despite the strenuous effort to find a suitable treatment option for these 
amyloid disorders, very few compounds had made it to unsuccessful clinical 
trials. It has become a compelling challenge to understand and manage 
amyloidosis with the increased life expectancy and ageing population.
OBJECTIVE: While most of the currently available literature and knowledge base 
focus on the amyloid inhibitory mechanism as a treatment option, it is equally 
important to organize and understand amyloid disaggregation strategies. 
Disaggregation strategies are important and crucial as they are present innately 
functional in many living systems and dissolution of preformed amyloids may 
provide a direct benefit in many pathological conditions. In this review, we 
have compiled the known amyloid disaggregation mechanism, interactions, and 
possibilities of using disaggregases as a treatment option for amyloidosis.
METHODS: We have provided the structural details using protein-ligand docking 
models to visualize the interaction between these disaggregases with amyloid 
fibrils and their respective proposed amyloid disaggregation mechanisms.
RESULTS: After reviewing and comparing the different amyloid disaggregase 
systems and their proposed mechanisms, we presented two different hypotheses for 
ATP independent disaggregases using L-PGDS as a model.
CONCLUSION: Finally, we have highlighted the importance of understanding the 
underlying disaggregation mechanisms used by these chaperones and organic 
compounds before the implementation of these disaggregases as a potential 
treatment option for amyloidosis.

