

85. Antioxidants (Basel). 2022 Feb 9;11(2):336. doi: 10.3390/antiox11020336.

The Role of Oxidative Stress in the Aging Heart.

Pagan LU(1), Gomes MJ(2), Gatto M(1), Mota GAF(1), Okoshi K(1), Okoshi MP(1).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine Department, Botucatu Medical School, Sao Paulo State 
University (UNESP), Botucatu 18618 687, Brazil.
(2)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Medical advances and the availability of diagnostic tools have considerably 
increased life expectancy and, consequently, the elderly segment of the world 
population. As age is a major risk factor in cardiovascular disease (CVD), it is 
critical to understand the changes in cardiac structure and function during the 
aging process. The phenotypes and molecular mechanisms of cardiac aging include 
several factors. An increase in oxidative stress is a major player in cardiac 
aging. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) production is an important mechanism for 
maintaining physiological processes; its generation is regulated by a system of 
antioxidant enzymes. Oxidative stress occurs from an imbalance between ROS 
production and antioxidant defenses resulting in the accumulation of free 
radicals. In the heart, ROS activate signaling pathways involved in myocyte 
hypertrophy, interstitial fibrosis, contractile dysfunction, and inflammation 
thereby affecting cell structure and function, and contributing to cardiac 
damage and remodeling. In this manuscript, we review recent published research 
on cardiac aging. We summarize the aging heart biology, highlighting key 
molecular pathways and cellular processes that underlie the redox signaling 
changes during aging. Main ROS sources, antioxidant defenses, and the role of 
dysfunctional mitochondria in the aging heart are addressed. As metabolism 
changes contribute to cardiac aging, we also comment on the most prevalent 
metabolic alterations. This review will help us to understand the mechanisms 
involved in the heart aging process and will provide a background for attractive 
molecular targets to prevent age-driven pathology of the heart. A greater 
understanding of the processes involved in cardiac aging may facilitate our 
ability to mitigate the escalating burden of CVD in older individuals and 
promote healthy cardiac aging.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox11020336
PMCID: PMC8868312
PMID: 35204217

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


86. Diagnostics (Basel). 2022 Jan 29;12(2):351. doi: 10.3390/diagnostics12020351.

Intracranial Meningioma in Elderly Patients. Retrospective Multicentric Risk and 
Surgical Factors Study of Morbidity and Mortality.

Armocida D(1), Arcidiacono UA(1), Palmieri M(1), Pesce A(2), Cofano F(3), 
Picotti V(4), Salvati M(5), D'Andrea G(4), Garbossa D(3), Santoro A(1), Frati 
A(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Neurosurgery Division, Human Neurosciences Department, "Sapienza" University, 
00185 Rome, Italy.
(2)Santa Maria Goretti Hospital, 04100 Latina, Italy.
(3)Neurosurgery Unit, Department of Neuroscience "Rita Levi Montalcini", 
University of Turin, 10124 Turin, Italy.
(4)Neurosurgery Department, Fabrizio Spaziani Hospital, 03100 Frosinone, Italy.
(5)Policlinico Tor Vergata, University Tor Vergata of Rome, 00133 Rome, Italy.
(6)IRCCS "Neuromed", 86077 Pozzilli, Italy.

With the increasing life expectancy, a large number of intracranial meningiomas 
(IM) have been identified in elderly patients. There is no general consensus 
regarding the management for IMs nor studies regarding the outcome of older 
patients undergoing meningioma surgery. We aimed to determine whether 
preoperative variables and postoperative clinical outcomes differ between age 
groups after meningioma surgery. We analyzed data from all patients who had 
undergone IM surgery from our departments. The final cohort consisted of 340 
patients affected by IM with ASA class I-II: 188 in the young group (<65) and 
152 in the elderly. The two subgroups did not present significant differences 
concerning biological characteristics of tumor, localization, diameters, lesion 
and edema volumes and surgical radicality. Despite these comparable data, 
elderly presented with a significantly lower Karnofsky Performance status value 
on admission and remained consistently lower during the follow-up. We establish 
instead that there is no intrinsic correlation to the presence of IM and no 
significant increased risk of complications or recurrence in elderly patients, 
but rather only an increased risk of reduced performance status with mortality 
related to the comorbidity of the patient, primarily cardiovascular disease, and 
an intrinsic frailty of the aged population.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics12020351
PMCID: PMC8871449
PMID: 35204442

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


87. Biology (Basel). 2022 Feb 17;11(2):322. doi: 10.3390/biology11020322.

Central and Peripheral Thermal Signatures of Brain-Derived Fatigue during 
Unilateral Resistance Exercise: A Preliminary Study.

Perpetuini D(1), Formenti D(2), Iodice P(3), Cardone D(1), Filippini C(1), 
Chiarelli AM(1), Michielon G(4), Trecroci A(4), Alberti G(4), Merla A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Imaging, Institute for Advanced Biomedical 
Technologies, University G. D'Annunzio of Chieti-Pescara, Via Luigi Polacchi 13, 
66100 Chieti, Italy.
(2)Department of Biotechnology and Life Sciences (DBSV), University of Insubria, 
Via Dunant, 3, 21100 Varese, Italy.
(3)Center for the Study and the Transformation of Physical Activities, Faculty 
of Sport Sciences, University of Rouen Normandie, Rue Thomas Becket, 76130 
Rouen, France.
(4)Department of Biomedical Sciences for Health, University of Milan, Via Kramer 
4, 20129 Milan, Italy.

Infrared thermography (IRT) allows to evaluate the psychophysiological state 
associated with emotions from facial temperature modulations. As fatigue is a 
brain-derived emotion, it is possible to hypothesize that facial temperature 
could provide information regarding the fatigue related to exercise. The aim of 
this study was to investigate the capability of IRT to assess the central and 
peripheral physiological effect of fatigue by measuring facial skin and muscle 
temperature modulations in response to a unilateral knee extension exercise 
until exhaustion. Rate of perceived exertion (RPE) was recorded at the end of 
the exercise. Both time- (∆TROI: pre-post exercise temperature variation) and 
frequency-domain (∆PSD: pre-post exercise power spectral density variation of 
specific frequency bands) analyses were performed to extract features from 
regions of interest (ROIs) positioned on the exercised and nonexercised leg, 
nose tip, and corrugator. The ANOVA-RM revealed a significant difference between 
∆TROI (F(1.41,9.81) = 15.14; p = 0.0018), and between ∆PSD of myogenic 
(F(1.34,9.39) = 15.20; p = 0.0021) and neurogenic bands (F(1.75,12.26) = 9.96; p 
= 0.0034) of different ROIs. Moreover, significant correlations between thermal 
features and RPE were found. These findings suggest that IRT could assess both 
peripheral and central responses to physical exercise. Its applicability in 
monitoring the psychophysiological responses to exercise should be further 
explored.

DOI: 10.3390/biology11020322
PMCID: PMC8869276
PMID: 35205188

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


88. Cancers (Basel). 2022 Feb 15;14(4):956. doi: 10.3390/cancers14040956.

Treatment of Classic Hairy Cell Leukemia: Targeting Minimal Residual Disease 
beyond Cladribine.

Bohn JP(1), Dietrich S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine V, Hematology and Oncology, Medical 
University of Innsbruck, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria.
(2)Department of Medicine V, Hematology, Oncology and Rheumatology, University 
of Heidelberg, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

Classic hairy cell leukemia (HCL) is a rare indolent B-cell lymphoproliferative 
disorder characterized by profound pancytopenia and frequent infectious 
complications due to progressive infiltration of the bone marrow and spleen. 
Lacking effective treatment options, affected patients were confronted with a 
dismal survival prognosis of less than 5 years when the disease was first 
described in 1958. Tremendous therapeutic advances were accomplished with the 
introduction of purine analogues such as cladribine in the 1990s, facilitating a 
near-normal life expectancy in most HCL patients. Nevertheless, nearly all 
patients eventually relapse and require successive retreatments, while 
drug-associated myelotoxicity may accumulate and secondary malignancies may 
evolve. Detection of minimal residual disease (MRD) in a substantial portion of 
treated patients has become a surrogate for this still limited treatment 
efficacy. In the last decade, novel biologic insights such as identification of 
the driver mutation BRAF V600E have initiated the development and clinical 
investigation of new, chemotherapy-free, targeted drugs in HCL treatment, with 
encouraging efficacy in early clinical trials aimed at boosting eradication of 
MRD while optimizing drug tolerability. This review summarizes current clinical 
trials investigating treatment strategies beyond purine analogues in HCL and 
discusses clinically relevant obstacles still to overcome.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14040956
PMCID: PMC8869886
PMID: 35205704

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


89. Foods. 2022 Feb 13;11(4):536. doi: 10.3390/foods11040536.

Rheological Characteristics of Model Gluten-Free Dough with Plantago Seeds and 
Husk Incorporation.

Pejcz E(1), Burešová I(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Fermentation and Cereals Technology, Wrocław University of 
Environmental and Life Sciences, Norwida 25, 50-375 Wrocław, Poland.
(2)Department of Food Technology, Tomas Bata University in Zlín, Vavrečkova 275, 
760 01 Zlín, Czech Republic.

The seeds and husk of Plantago origin are rich source of dietary fiber known for 
its medicinal use. Despite the use of both Plantago psyllium and Plantago ovata 
products due to their physicochemical and nutritional properties, only the 
effects of Plantago ovata husk have been studied. Their structure-forming 
properties may positively affect gluten-free bread quality only if an adequate 
dough hydration is used. The aim of the work is to analyze the effect of 
different Plantago products: Plantago psyllium seeds and Plantago ovata seeds 
and husk in quantities of 3, 6 and 9% share on the rheological profile of model 
gluten-free dough and bread and bread's technological quality and shelf-life. 
The rheological parameters of the dough were determined with Mixolab protocols 
and uniaxial deformation test. Bread quality and its textural profile analysis 
after cooling and storage were determined. The addition of Plantago psyllium 
seeds weakened the dough. All additives contributed to a reduction in starch 
retrogradation, bread hardness and water loss during baking, and to the 
improvement of the doughs' resistance to extension, dough energy and bread 
yield. This influence is strongest when the Plantago ovata husk was used. 
However, the consumer acceptance of the tested breads was low and, in this 
respect, the breads with the addition of seeds of both Plantago psyllium and 
ovata were considered to be better than the husk.

DOI: 10.3390/foods11040536
PMCID: PMC8870862
PMID: 35206013

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


90. Foods. 2022 Feb 15;11(4):551. doi: 10.3390/foods11040551.

Zero-Waste Approach Applied to Pomegranates for Prolonging Fish Burger Shelf 
Life.

Panza O(1), Conte A(1), Del Nobile MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, Food and Environment, University of 
Foggia, Via Napoli, 25, 71122 Foggia, Italy.

In this study, the possibility of using whole pomegranate (juice, peel and 
seeds) according to the zero-waste approach, to prolong fresh fish shelf life, 
was evaluated. A preliminary antimicrobial in vitro test was carried out with 
peel and seeds as ground and re-ground powders. Then, the entire fruit, in the 
right proportions of juice and relative by-products as ground or re-ground 
powders, was added to fresh fish burger formulation to extend its shelf life. To 
this aim, a shelf-life test was performed on fortified fish products stored at 4 
°C. Control samples were also tested for comparison. Specifically, the pH and 
microbiological and sensory quality of all the fish burgers were monitored 
during refrigerated storage for about 1 month. The results from the in vitro 
test clearly indicate that the peel is abundantly more effective than seeds on 
selected spoilage bacteria and that the ground peel powder is slightly more 
antimicrobial than the same re-ground powder. Results from the shelf-life test 
assessed that the control sample became unacceptable within a few days (about 3 
days), while the samples with pomegranate juice and by-products maintained 
microbial stability for a longer time (2 or 3 weeks) (p < 0.05). The main 
microbiological problems are the proliferations of mesophilic and psychrotrophic 
bacteria, Pseudomonas spp. and Shewanella. The addition of pomegranate to the 
formulation allowed the fish spoilage to be controlled by at least 2 or 3 log 
cycles. In agreement with findings from the in vitro test, the best results from 
the microbiological point of view were found in fish burgers with juice, peel 
and seed ground powders. Furthermore, the addition of pomegranate was also 
appreciated from the sensorial point of view. In fact, products with pomegranate 
were prized for about 3 weeks for color, odor, appearance and texture of both 
raw and cooked products. Therefore, the current study reveals that the 
incorporation of the entire pomegranate, added in all parts according to the 
zero-waste concept, could promote a significant shelf-life extension of fish 
burgers, mainly due to the bioactive compounds present in fruit by-products, 
without changing the sensory quality.

DOI: 10.3390/foods11040551
PMCID: PMC8871030
PMID: 35206027

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


91. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Feb 11;19(4):2032. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19042032.

The Impact of Transport on Population Health and Health Equity for Māori in 
Aotearoa New Zealand: A Prospective Burden of Disease Study.

Randal E(1), Shaw C(1), McLeod M(1), Keall M(1), Woodward A(2), Mizdrak A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Otago, Wellington 6242, New 
Zealand.
(2)Epidemiology and Biostatistics, The University of Auckland, Private Bag 
92019, Auckland 1142, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: The land transport system influences health via a range of pathways. 
This study aimed to quantify the amount and distribution of health loss caused 
by the current land transport system in Aotearoa New Zealand (NZ) through the 
pathways of road injury, air pollution and physical inactivity.
METHODS: We used an existing multi-state life table model to estimate the 
long-term health impacts (in health-adjusted life years (HALYs)) and changes in 
health system costs of removing road injury and transport related air pollution 
and increasing physical activity to recommended levels through active transport. 
Health equity implications were estimated using relative changes in HALYs and 
life expectancy for Māori and non-Māori.
RESULTS: If the NZ resident population alive in 2011 was exposed to no further 
air pollution from transport, had no road traffic injuries and achieved at least 
the recommended weekly amount of physical activity through walking and cycling 
from 2011 onwards, 1.28 (95% UI: 1.11-1.5) million HALYs would be gained and 
$7.7 (95% UI: 10.2 to 5.6) billion (2011 NZ Dollars) would be saved from the 
health system over the lifetime of this cohort. Māori would likely gain more 
healthy years per capita than non-Māori, which would translate to small but 
important reductions (2-3%) in the present gaps in life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: The current transport system in NZ, like many other car-dominated 
transport systems, has substantial negative impacts on health, at a similar 
level to the effects of tobacco and obesity. Transport contributes to health 
inequity, as Māori bear greater shares of the negative health impacts. Creating 
a healthier transport system would bring substantial benefits for health, 
society and the economy.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19042032
PMCID: PMC8871542
PMID: 35206228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


92. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Feb 12;19(4):2053. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19042053.

Impact of Socioeconomic Environment on Home Social Care Service Demand and 
Dependent Users.

Badell D(1)(2), de Armas J(3), Julià A(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Information and Communication Technologies, Universitat Pompeu 
Fabra, 08002 Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Municipal Institute of Social Services, 08009 Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Department of Economics and Business, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, 08002 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Department of Sociology, Universitat de Barcelona, 08007 Barcelona, Spain.

An aging population and rising life expectancy lead to an increased demand for 
social services to care for dependent users, among other factors. In Barcelona, 
home social care (HSC) services are a key agent in meeting this demand. However, 
demand is not evenly distributed among neighborhoods, and we hypothesized that 
this can be explained by the user's social environment. In this work, we 
describe the user's environment at a macroscopic level by the socioeconomic 
features of the neighborhood. This research aimed to gain a deeper understanding 
of the dependent user's socioeconomic environment and service needs. We applied 
descriptive analytics techniques to explore possible patterns linking HSC demand 
and other features. These methods include principal components analysis (PCA) 
and hierarchical clustering. The main analysis was made from the obtained 
boxplots, after these techniques were applied. We found that economic and 
disability factors, through users' mean net rent and degree of disability 
features, are related to the demand for home social care services. This relation 
is even clearer for the home-based social care services. These findings can be 
useful to distribute the services among areas by considering more features than 
the volume of users/population. Moreover, it can become helpful in future steps 
to develop a management tool to optimize HSC scheduling and staff assignment to 
improve the cost and quality of service. For future research, we believe that 
additional and more precise characteristics could provide deeper insights into 
HSC service demand.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19042053
PMCID: PMC8872414
PMID: 35206244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


93. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Feb 15;19(4):2175. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19042175.

Lockdowns and Physical Activities: Sports in the Time of COVID.

Harangi-Rákos M(1), Pfau C(2), Bácsné Bába É(2), Bács BA(3)(4), Kőmíves PM(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Rural Development, Regional Economy and Tourism Management, 
University of Debrecen, H-4032 Debrecen, Hungary.
(2)Institute of Sport Management, University of Debrecen, H-4032 Debrecen, 
Hungary.
(3)Institute of Accounting and Finance, University of Debrecen, H-4032 Debrecen, 
Hungary.
(4)Károly Ihrig Doctoral School of Management and Business, University of 
Debrecen, H-4032 Debrecen, Hungary.
(5)Institute of Economics and World Economy, University of Debrecen, H-4032 
Debrecen, Hungary.

As aging causes challenges in several countries globally, more and more people 
are suffering from bad health conditions. Nowadays, COVID-19 causes many 
problems-and one of the root causes of these problems is the isolation of people 
from each other. The aim of our article is to investigate the effects of 
COVID-19 on people's physical activity. Physical activity is strongly correlated 
with health status and health preservation is very important to minimize the 
negative effects of the pandemic. In order to investigate this topic, we 
prepared an extended literature review, citing the most important sources of 
COVID-related health-preservation issues. Our results showed that the negative 
economic effects of the coronavirus pandemic have caused a decrease in physical 
activities in several cases. A reduction in possible physical activities has a 
potential negative effect on the life expectancies of elderly people. In order 
to underline the importance of physical activities, we prepared an extended 
literature review, aiming to summarize the available knowledge related to 
COVID-19. As a conclusion we recommend to strengthen, maintain, and develop 
available sporting possibilities for people. The most important of these 
recommendations is the development of physical activities that are available for 
free.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19042175
PMCID: PMC8872075
PMID: 35206369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


94. Healthcare (Basel). 2022 Jan 21;10(2):211. doi: 10.3390/healthcare10020211.

The 'Red Herring' Hypothesis: Some Theory and New Evidence.

Zweifel P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Zurich, Rämistr. 71, 8006 Zürich, 
Switzerland.

The 'red herring' hypothesis (RHH) claims that apart from income and medical 
technology, proximity to death rather than age constitutes the main determinant 
of healthcare expenditure (HCE). This paper seeks to underpin the RHH with some 
theory to derive new predictions also for a rationed setting, and to test them 
against published empirical evidence. One set comprising ten predictions uses 
women's longer life expectancy as an indicator of the difference in time to 
death in their favor. Out of 28 testing opportunities drawn from the published 
evidence, in the case of no rationing seven out of eleven result in full and two 
in partial confirmation; in the case of rationing, twelve out of 17 result in 
full and one in partial confirmation. The other set, containing 35 testing 
opportunities, concerns the age profile of HCE. In the case of no rationing, 
seven out of twelve result in full and four in partial confirmation; in the case 
of rationing, eleven out of 23 in full and nine in partial confirmation. There 
are but ten contradictions in total. Overall, the new tests of the RHH can be 
said to receive a good deal of empirical support, both from countries and 
settings with and without rationing.

DOI: 10.3390/healthcare10020211
PMCID: PMC8871534
PMID: 35206826

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


95. Healthcare (Basel). 2022 Jan 30;10(2):274. doi: 10.3390/healthcare10020274.

Analysis of Healthcare Expenditures in Bulgaria.

Mitkova Z(1), Doneva M(1), Gerasimov N(2), Tachkov K(1), Dimitrova M(1), 
Kamusheva M(1), Petrova G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Organization and Economy of Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Medical University-Sofia, 1000 Sofia, Bulgaria.
(2)Medical College, Trakia University, 6000 Stara Zagora, Bulgaria.

The growth of public expenditure worldwide has set the priority on assessment of 
trends and establishment of factors which generate the most significant public 
costs. The goal of the current study is to review the tendencies in public 
healthcare expenditures in Bulgaria and to analyze the influence of the 
demographic, economic, and healthcare system capacity indicators on expenditures 
dynamics. A retrospective, top-down, financial analysis of the healthcare system 
expenditures was performed. Datasets of the National Statistical Institute 
(NSI), National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), and National Center of Public 
Health and Analysis (NCPHA) were retrospectively reviewed from2014-2019 to 
collect the information in absolute units of healthcare expenditures, healthcare 
system performance, demographics, and economic indicators. The research showed 
that increasing GDP led to higher healthcare costs, and it was the main factor 
affecting the cost growth in Bulgaria. The number of hospitalized patients and 
citizens in retirement age remained constant, confirming that their impact on 
healthcare costs was negligible. In conclusion, the population aging, average 
life expectancy, patient morbidity, and hospitalization rate altogether impacted 
healthcare costs mainly due to the multimorbidity of older people and the rising 
need for outpatient hospital services and medications.

DOI: 10.3390/healthcare10020274
PMCID: PMC8872167
PMID: 35206888

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


96. Healthcare (Basel). 2022 Jan 30;10(2):275. doi: 10.3390/healthcare10020275.

Impact of Actual Use Behavior of Healthcare Wearable Devices on Quality of Life: 
A Cross-Sectional Survey of People with Dementia and Their Caregivers in Ghana.

Larnyo E(1), Dai B(1), Larnyo A(2), Nutakor JA(1), Ampon-Wireko S(1), Nkrumah 
ENK(2), Appiah R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, School of Management, Jiangsu 
University, 301 Xuefu Road, Zhenjiang 212013, China.
(2)School of Management, Jiangsu University, 301 Xuefu Road, Zhenjiang 212013, 
China.

The increasing prevalence of dementia has necessitated the introduction and use 
of healthcare wearable devices to augment the healthcare services delivered to 
people with dementia (PWDs). Unfortunately, evidence on user feedback and the 
real impact of the actual use of these devices on the quality of life of PWDs 
has not been fully explored, especially in the context of developing countries. 
This study, therefore, seeks to evaluate the impact of actual use behavior (AUB) 
of healthcare wearable devices on the quality of life (QoL) of PWDs in Ghana by 
using constructs from the extended Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of 
Technology (UTAUT2) model and the SF-36 quality of life instrument. Data were 
collected from people with dementia and, in some cases, caregivers (acting as 
proxies) in three administrative regions of Ghana using structured 
questionnaires. Of the 420 questionnaires distributed, 356 were returned, giving 
a response rate of (356/420, 84.8%). Three hundred and twenty (320) responses 
were used for further analysis, employing the Partial Least Squares based on 
Structural Equation Modeling. The results showed a significant positive 
relationship between AUB and QoL (p < 0.001). Other predictors such as 
behavioral intention, facilitating conditions, effort expectancy and social 
influence were also found to significantly impact the actual use behavior of 
healthcare wearable devices among PWDs. The study also revealed that 4% (14) of 
patients rated their reported health transition associated with the use of 
healthcare wearable devices as excellent, 42.5% (136) as very good, and 39.4% 
(126) as good, respectively at the time of the study compared to a year ago. 
This study provided empirical evidence of the positive impact of the actual use 
of healthcare wearable devices on the quality of life of PWDs and further 
highlighted the factors that drive actual use behavior among PWDs in Ghana. 
Based on the findings of this study, stakeholders need to create the necessary 
conditions that will facilitate the adoption and use of healthcare wearable 
devices, as this will help improve the quality of life, reduce the burden of the 
disease on caregivers, and enable independent living of PWDs.

DOI: 10.3390/healthcare10020275
PMCID: PMC8872618
PMID: 35206890

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no financial 
support or relationships that may pose conflict of interest.


97. Healthcare (Basel). 2022 Feb 3;10(2):296. doi: 10.3390/healthcare10020296.

Association of Major Chronic Noncommunicable Diseases and Life Expectancy in 
China, 2019.

Sun L(1), Zhou Y(1), Zhang M(1), Li C(1), Qu M(1), Cai Q(1), Meng J(1), Fan 
H(1), Zhao Y(2), Hu D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine and Health Management, College of Public 
Health, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450001, China.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, College of Public Health, 
Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450001, China.

This study aimed to illustrate the association of four major chronic 
noncommunicable diseases (cardiovascular diseases, cancer, respiratory diseases, 
and diabetes) with life expectancy (LE) of Chinese residents in 2019 and to 
provide an evidence base for the scientific prevention and treatment of chronic 
diseases in China. The abbreviated life and cause-eliminated life tables were 
compiled according to the Jiang Qing Lang method recommended by WHO (World 
Health Organization) to calculate LE and cause-eliminated life expectancy (CELE) 
in 2019. The disease that had the greatest association with the LE of Chinese 
residents was cardiovascular disease (CVD), with the LE increasing by 8.13 years 
after removing CVD deaths. This was followed by cancer (2.68 years), respiratory 
diseases (0.88 years), and diabetes (0.24 years). The four major chronic 
noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) were the main diseases affecting the health of 
Chinese residents. CVD should be prevented and treated as the key disease among 
the chronic diseases, while women and rural people should be the major focus of 
health knowledge promotion. All residents should be encouraged to develop a good 
understanding of self-protection and of how to achieve a healthy lifestyle in 
order to reduce the occurrence of death and to improve their quality of life and 
health in general.

DOI: 10.3390/healthcare10020296
PMCID: PMC8872404
PMID: 35206910

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


98. J Clin Med. 2022 Feb 10;11(4):920. doi: 10.3390/jcm11040920.

Acid Sphingomyelinase Deficiency: Sharing Experience of Disease Monitoring and 
Severity in France.

Mauhin W(1), Borie R(2)(3), Dalbies F(4), Douillard C(5), Guffon N(6), Lavigne 
C(7), Lidove O(1), Brassier A(8).

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine Interne, Centre de Référence Maladies Lysosomales, Groupe 
Hospitalier Diaconesses Croix Saint-Simon, 75020 Paris, France.
(2)Service de Pneumologie A, Hôpital Bichat, 75018 Paris, France.
(3)Unité de Recherche, INSERM, Unité 1152, Université Paris Diderot, 75018 
Paris, France.
(4)Institut de Cancéro-Hématologie, CHU Morvan, 29200 Brest, France.
(5)Centre de Référence des Maladies Héréditaires du Métabolisme, Avenue Avinée, 
Hôpital Jeanne de Flandres, CHU Lille, 59000 Lille, France.
(6)Centre de Référence Lyonnais des Maladies Héréditaires du Métabolisme, 
Hospices Civils de Lyon, HCL, 69677 Bron, France.
(7)Service de Médecine Interne et Immunologie Clinique, Centre de Compétence des 
Maladies Métaboliques Héréditaires, CHU Angers, 49933 Angers, France.
(8)Service de Pédiatrie et Maladies du Métabolisme, APHP Necker, 75015 Paris, 
France.

Acid sphingomyelinase deficiency (ASMD) is a rare inherited lipid storage 
disorder caused by a deficiency in lysosomal enzyme acid sphingomyelinase which 
results in the accumulation of sphingomyelin, predominantly within cells of the 
reticuloendothelial system located in numerous organs, such as the liver, 
spleen, lungs, and central nervous system. Although all patients with ASMD share 
the same basic metabolic defect, a wide spectrum of clinical presentations and 
outcomes are observed, contributing to treatment challenges. While infantile 
neurovisceral ASMD (also known as Niemann-Pick disease type A) is rapidly 
progressive and fatal in early childhood, and the more slowly progressive 
chronic neurovisceral (type A/B) and chronic visceral (type B) forms have 
varying clinical phenotypes and life expectancy. The prognosis of visceral ASMD 
is mainly determined by the association of hepatosplenomegaly with secondary 
thrombocytopenia and lung disease. Early diagnosis and appropriate management 
are essential to reduce the risk of complications and mortality. The 
accessibility of the new enzyme replacement therapy olipudase alfa, a 
recombinant human ASM, has been expedited for clinical use based on positive 
clinical data in children and adult patients, such as improved respiratory 
status and reduced spleen volume. The aim of this article is to share the 
authors experience on monitoring ASMD patients and stratifying the severity of 
the disease to aid in care decisions.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11040920
PMCID: PMC8877564
PMID: 35207195

Conflict of interest statement: Wladimir Mauhin declares honoraria and travel 
hospitality from Sanofi-Genzyme, Shire-Takeda, Chiesi and Amicus Therapeutics. 
Raphaël Borie received honoraria from Sanofi Genzyme, Roche and Boehringer. 
Florence Dalbies has received travel grants and speaker honoraria from Sanofi 
Genzyme. Claire Douillard has received travel grants honoraria from Sanofi 
Genzyme, Biomarin, Ultragenyx, Shire. Nathalie Guffon is involved as a Principal 
Investigator into ASCEND Peds clinical trials a Sanofi Genzyme sponsored trial 
and received some grants/fees from Sanofi Genzyme, Ultragenyx, Takeda, BioMarin. 
Christian Lavigne has received travel grants honoraria and speaker honoraria 
from Sanofi Genzyme, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, Ultragenyx, Shire and Biomarin. 
Olivier Lidove is principal investigator in ASCEND, a Sanofi-Genzyme sponsored 
trial, and has received travel grants and speaker honoraria from Amicus and 
Sanofi Genzyme. Anaïs Brassier has received travel grants and speaker honoraria 
from Sanofi Genzyme, Shire HGT, Orchard therapeutics, Biomarin, and Alexion.


99. Life (Basel). 2022 Jan 27;12(2):186. doi: 10.3390/life12020186.

Photobiomodulation Therapy Combined with Static Magnetic Field (PBMT-SMF) on 
Spatiotemporal and Kinematics Gait Parameters in Post-Stroke: A Pilot Study.

Dumont AJL(1), Casalechi HL(1), Tomazoni SS(2), Grecco LC(3)(4)(5), Galli M(6), 
Oliveira CS(7)(8), Leal-Junior ECP(1)(2)(9).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Phototherapy and Innovative Technologies in Health (LaPIT), 
Post-Graduated Program in Rehabilitation Sciences, U Nove de Julho University 
(UNINOVE), São Paulo 01525-000, Brazil.
(2)Physiotherapy Research Group, Department of Global Public Health and Public 
Care, University of Bergen (UiB), 5020 Bergen, Norway.
(3)Vento Leste-Specialized Childcare Habilitation, Sorocaba 18046-715, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Integrated Human Movements, University de Sorocaba, Sorocaba 
18023-000, Brazil.
(5)Center of Pediatric Neurostimulation, São Paulo 01229-000, Brazil.
(6)Department of Electronic Information and Bioengineering, Politecnico di 
Milano, 20133 Milan, Italy.
(7)Health Sciences Program, Santa Casa de São Paulo School of Medical Sciences, 
São Paulo 01221-020, Brazil.
(8)Postgraduate Program, University Center of Anapolis, Anápolis 75083-515, 
Brazil.
(9)ELJ Consultancy-Scientific Consultants, São Paulo 04076-000, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Gait deficit is a major complaint in patients after stroke, 
restricting certain activities of daily living. Photobiomodulation therapy 
combined with a static magnetic field (PBMT-SMF) has been studied for several 
diseases, and the two therapies are beneficia. However, their combination has 
not yet been evaluated in stroke. Therefore, for PBMT-SMF to be used more often 
and become an adjunctive tool in the rehabilitation of stroke survivors at 
physical therapy rehabilitation centers and clinics, some important aspects need 
to be clarified.
PURPOSE: This study aimed to test different doses of PBMT-SMF, to identify the 
ideal dose to cause immediate effects on the spatiotemporal and kinematic 
variables of gait in post-stroke patients.
METHODS: A randomized, triple-blinded, placebo-controlled crossover pilot study 
was performed. A total of 10 individuals with hemiparesis within 6 months to 5 
years since the occurrence of stroke, aged 45-60 years, were included in the 
study. Participants were randomly assigned and treated with a single PBMT-SMF 
dose (sham, 10 J, 30 J, or 50 J) on a single application, with one dose per 
stage at 7-day intervals between stages. PBMT-SMF was applied with a cluster of 
12 diodes (4 of 905 nm laser, 4 of 875 nm LEDs, and 4 of 640 nm LEDs, SMF of 35 
mT) at 17 sites on both lower limbs after baseline evaluation: plantar flexors 
(2), knee extensors (9), and flexors (6). The primary outcome was self-selected 
walking speed, and the secondary outcomes were kinematic parameters. Gait 
analysis was performed using SMART-D 140® and SMART-D INTEGRATED WORKSTATION®. 
The outcomes were measured at the end of each stage after the single application 
of each PBMT-SMF dose tested.
RESULTS: No significant differences (p > 0.05) in spatiotemporal variables were 
observed between the different doses, compared with the baseline evaluation. 
However, differences (p < 0.05) were observed in the kinematic variable of the 
hip in the paretic and non-paretic limbs, specifically in the minimum 
flexion/extension angulation during the support phase (HMST-MIN) in doses 10 J, 
30 J, and 50 J.
CONCLUSIONS: A single application of PBMT-SMF at doses of 10 J, 30 J, and 50 J 
per site of the lower limbs did not demonstrate positive effects on the 
spatiotemporal variables, but it promoted immediate effects in the kinematic 
variables of the hip (maximum and minimum flexion/extension angulation during 
the support phase) in the paretic and non-paretic limbs in post-stroke people.

DOI: 10.3390/life12020186
PMCID: PMC8874719
PMID: 35207474

Conflict of interest statement: Professor Ernesto Cesar Pinto Leal-Junior 
receives research support from Multi Radiance Medical (Solon, OH, USA), a laser 
device manufacturer. Shaiane Silva Tomazoni has a personal relationship with 
Ernesto Cesar Pinto Leal-Junior. The remaining authors declare that they have no 
conflicts of interest.


100. J Pers Med. 2022 Feb 3;12(2):207. doi: 10.3390/jpm12020207.

CRIDECO Anticholinergic Load Scale: An Updated Anticholinergic Burden Scale. 
Comparison with the ACB Scale in Spanish Individuals with Subjective Memory 
Complaints.

Ramos H(1)(2), Moreno L(1)(2), Pérez-Tur J(1)(3), Cháfer-Pericás C(1)(4), 
García-Lluch G(1)(4), Pardo J(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Cátedra DeCo MICOF-CEU UCH, Universidad Cardenal Herrera-CEU, CEU 
Universities, 46115 Valencia, Spain.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Universidad Cardenal Herrera-CEU, CEU Universities, 
46115 Valencia, Spain.
(3)Institut de Biomedicina de València-CSIC, CIBERNED, Unitat Mixta de 
Neurologia i Genetica, IIS La Fe, 46010 Valencia, Spain.
(4)Alzheimer Disease Research Group, Health Research Institute La Fe, 46026 
Valencia, Spain.
(5)Embedded Systems and Artificial Intelligence Group, Universidad Cardenal 
Herrera-CEU, CEU Universities, 46115 Valencia, Spain.

The increase in life expectancy has also been accompanied by an increase in the 
use of medication to treat chronic diseases. Polypharmacy is associated with 
medication-related problems such as the increase in the anticholinergic burden. 
Older people are more susceptible to anticholinergic effects on the central 
nervous system and this, in turn, may be related to cognitive impairment. In 
this paper, we develop an updated anticholinergic burden scale, the CRIDECO 
Anticholinergic Load Scale (CALS) via a systematic review of the literature and 
compare it with the currently most used Anticholinergic Burden Scale (ACB). Our 
new scale includes 217 different drugs with anticholinergic properties, 129 more 
than the ACB. Given the effect that anticholinergic medications have on 
cognitive performance, we then used both scales to investigate the relationship 
between anticholinergic burden and cognitive impairment in adult Spanish 
subjects with subjective memory complaint. In our population, we observed an 
association between cognitive impairment and the anticholinergic burden when 
measured by the new CALS, but not when the ACB was applied. The use of a more 
comprehensive and upgraded scale will allow better discrimination of the risk 
associated with the use of anticholinergic medications on cognitive impairment. 
CALS can help raise awareness among clinicians of the problems associated with 
the use of medications, or combinations of them, with large anticholinergic 
effect, and promote a better personalized pharmacological approach for each 
patient.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm12020207
PMCID: PMC8876932
PMID: 35207695

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


101. J Pers Med. 2022 Feb 8;12(2):234. doi: 10.3390/jpm12020234.

Environmental and Lifestyle Risk Factors in the Carcinogenesis of Gallbladder 
Cancer.

Pérez-Moreno P(1), Riquelme I(2), García P(1), Brebi P(3), Roa JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Millennium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, Department of 
Pathology, School of Medicine, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, 
Santiago 8380000, Chile.
(2)Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Health Sciences, Universidad 
Autónoma de Chile, Temuco 4810101, Chile.
(3)Millennium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, Laboratory of 
Integrative Biology (LiBi), Centro de Excelencia en Medicina Translacional 
(CEMT), Scientific and Technological Bioresource Nucleus (BIOREN), Universidad 
de La Frontera, Temuco 4810296, Chile.

Gallbladder cancer (GBC) is an aggressive neoplasm that in an early stage is 
generally asymptomatic and, in most cases, is diagnosed in advanced stages with 
a very low life expectancy because there is no curative treatment. Therefore, 
understanding the early carcinogenic mechanisms of this pathology is crucial to 
proposing preventive strategies for this cancer. The main risk factor is the 
presence of gallstones, which are associated with some environmental factors 
such as a sedentary lifestyle and a high-fat diet. Other risk factors such as 
autoimmune disorders and bacterial, parasitic and fungal infections have also 
been described. All these factors can generate a long-term inflammatory state 
characterized by the persistent activation of the immune system, the frequent 
release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and the constant production of reactive 
oxygen species that result in a chronic damage/repair cycle, subsequently 
inducing the loss of the normal architecture of the gallbladder mucosa that 
leads to the development of GBC. This review addresses how the different risk 
factors could promote a chronic inflammatory state essential to the development 
of gallbladder carcinogenesis, which will make it possible to define some 
strategies such as anti-inflammatory drugs or public health proposals in the 
prevention of GBC.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm12020234
PMCID: PMC8877116
PMID: 35207722

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


102. J Pers Med. 2022 Feb 10;12(2):253. doi: 10.3390/jpm12020253.

Numerical Comparison of Restored Vertebral Body Height after Incomplete Burst 
Fracture of the Lumbar Spine.

Jhong GH(1), Chung YH(2), Li CT(3), Chen YN(4), Chang CW(5)(6), Chang CH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 
701, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Orthopedics, Show Chwan Memorial Hospital, Changhua 500, 
Taiwan.
(3)Institute of Geriatric Welfare Technology & Science, Mackay Medical College, 
New Taipei 252, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Physical Therapy, Asia University, Taichung 413, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Orthopedics, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College 
of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 704, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Orthopedics, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan 701, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Vertebral compression fracture is a major health care 
problem worldwide due to its direct and indirect negative influence on 
health-related quality of life and increased health care costs. Although a 
percutaneous surgical intervention with balloon kyphoplasty or metal expansion, 
the SpineJack, along with bone cement augmentation has been shown to efficiently 
restore and fix the lost vertebral height, 21-30% vertebral body height loss has 
been reported in the literature. Furthermore, the effect of the augmentation 
approaches and the loss of body height on the biomechanical responses in 
physiological activities remains unclear. Hence, this study aimed to compare the 
mechanical behavior of the fractured lumbar spine with different restored body 
heights, augmentation approaches, and posterior fixation after kyphoplasty using 
the finite element method. Furthermore, different augmentation approaches with 
bone cement and bone cement along with the SpineJack were also considered in the 
simulation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A numerical lumbar model with an incomplete burst 
fracture at L3 was used in this study. Two different degrees of restored body 
height, namely complete and incomplete restorations, after kyphoplasty were 
investigated. Furthermore, two different augmentation approaches of the 
fractured vertebral body with bone cement and SpineJack along with bone cement 
were considered. A posterior instrument (PI) was also used in this study. 
Physiological loadings with 400 N + 10 Nm in four directions, namely flexion, 
extension, lateral bending, and axial rotation, were applied to the lumbar spine 
with different augmentation approaches for comparison.
RESULTS: The results indicated that both the bone cement and bone cement along 
with the SpineJack could support the fractured vertebral body to react similarly 
with an intact lumbar spine under identical loadings. When the fractured body 
height was incompletely restored, the peak stress in the L2-L3 disk above the 
fractured vertebral body increased by 154% (from 0.93 to 2.37 MPa) and 116% 
(from 0.18 to 0.39 MPa), respectively, in the annular ground substance and 
nucleus when compared with the intact one. The use of the PI could reduce the 
range of motion and facet joint force at the implanted levels but increase the 
facet joint force at the upper level of the PI.
CONCLUSIONS: In the present study, complete restoration of the body height, as 
possible in kyphoplasty, is suggested for the management of lumbar vertebral 
fractures.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm12020253
PMCID: PMC8875835
PMID: 35207743

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest 
regarding the publication of this paper.


103. Metabolites. 2022 Feb 8;12(2):162. doi: 10.3390/metabo12020162.

Assessment of Physiological Rat Kidney Ageing-Implications for the Evaluation of 
Allograft Quality Prior to Renal Transplantation.

Baumgartner A(1)(2), Reichelt-Wurm S(1), Gronwald W(3), Samol C(3), Schröder 
JA(4), Fellner C(5), Holler K(1), Steege A(1), Putz FJ(1), Oefner PJ(3), Banas 
B(1), Banas MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, University Hospital Regensburg, 93053 Regensburg, 
Germany.
(2)Department of Orthopedics and Trauma Surgery, Medical 
Center-Albert-Ludwigs-University Freiburg, 79106 Freiburg, Germany.
(3)Institute of Functional Genomics, University of Regensburg, 93053 Regensburg, 
Germany.
(4)Institute of Pathology, University of Regensburg, 93053 Regensburg, Germany.
(5)Department of Radiology, University Hospital Regensburg, 93053 Regensburg, 
Germany.

Due to organ shortage and rising life expectancy the age of organ donors and 
recipients is increasing. Reliable biomarkers of organ quality that predict 
successful long-term transplantation outcomes are poorly defined. The aim of 
this study was the identification of age-related markers of kidney function that 
might accurately reflect donor organ quality. Histomorphometric, biochemical and 
molecular parameters were measured in young (3-month-old) and old (24-month-old) 
male Sprague Dawley rats. In addition to conventional methods, we used urine 
metabolomics by NMR spectroscopy and gene expression analysis by quantitative 
RT-PCR to identify markers of ageing relevant to allograft survival. Beside 
known markers of kidney ageing like albuminuria, changes in the concentration of 
urine metabolites such as trimethylamine-N-oxide, trigonelline, 2-oxoglutarate, 
citrate, hippurate, glutamine, acetoacetate, valine and 1-methyl-histidine were 
identified in association with ageing. In addition, expression of several genes 
of the toll-like receptor (TLR) pathway, known for their implication in 
inflammaging, were upregulated in the kidneys of old rats. This study led to the 
identification of age-related markers of biological allograft age potentially 
relevant for allograft survival in the future. Among those, urine metabolites 
and markers of immunity and inflammation, which are highly relevant to 
immunosuppression in transplant recipients, are promising and deserve further 
investigation in humans.

DOI: 10.3390/metabo12020162
PMCID: PMC8875225
PMID: 35208236

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


104. Medicina (Kaunas). 2022 Feb 2;58(2):227. doi: 10.3390/medicina58020227.

To Resurface or Not to Resurface the Patella in Total Knee Arthroplasty, That Is 
the Question: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials.

Delgado-González A(1), Morales-Viaji JJ(1), Arteaga-Hernández JG(1), 
Larrosa-Arranz Á(1), Criado-Albillos G(1), Martin-Rodríguez ADP(1), Jahouh M(2), 
González-Santos J(2), Mendieta Díaz L(1), Collazo Riobo C(1), Calvo Simal S(1), 
González-Bernal JJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Traumatology and Orthopedic Surgery Department, Burgos University Hospital, 
09006 Burgos, Spain.
(2)Department of Health Sciences, University of Burgos, 09001 Burgos, Spain.

Background and Objetives: Currently, total knee arthroplasty is one of the most 
common surgeries, increasing with the increase in life expectancy. Whether or 
not to replace the patella has been a subject of debate over the years, 
remaining in controversy and without reaching a consensus. Over the years, 
different meta-analyses have been carried out in order to provide evidence on 
the subject, although, in recent times, there have not been many new studies in 
this regard. Therefore, it is considered necessary that the latest works form 
part of a new meta-analysis. Materials and Method: We searched the literature 
using PUBMED, SCOPUS, the Cochrane database and VHL from 2010 to 2020. The 
search terms used were "patellar" AND "resurfacing" OR "Replacement" and "no 
resurfacing" OR "no replacement". A meta-analysis was performed with Stata 
software (Stata version 15.1). Forest plots were generated to illustrate the 
overall effect of knee arthroplasty interventions. Results: As a result, it was 
obtained that there is a significantly higher risk of suffering AKP in the 
non-resurfacing group, in addition to a significant increase in the risk of 
undergoing a reoperation in the non-resurfacing group. On the other hand, 
significant differences were obtained in favor of the resurfacing group in both 
the clinical and Feller KSS, with functional KSS being inconclusive. After 
analyzing different variables throughout the literature, it does seem clear that 
the non-resurfacing group may present a higher risk of reoperation than the 
resurfacing group. Conclusions: For all these reasons, we think that, although 
it does seem that not replacing the patella can precipitate a reoperation, it is 
not clear whether this reoperation is a direct consequence of not having 
replaced the patella. Therefore, in our opinion, the treatment must be 
individualized for each patient.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina58020227
PMCID: PMC8875724
PMID: 35208551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


105. Medicina (Kaunas). 2022 Feb 18;58(2):311. doi: 10.3390/medicina58020311.

A Comprehensive Review of the Technological Solutions to Analyse the Effects of 
Pandemic Outbreak on Human Lives.

Shah I(1), Doshi C(1), Patel M(1), Tanwar S(1), Hong WC(2), Sharma R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Institute of Technology, 
Nirma University, Ahmedabad 382481, Gujarat, India.
(2)Department of Information Management, Asia Eastern University of Science and 
Technology, New Taipei 22064, Taiwan.
(3)Centre for Inter-Disciplinary Research and Innovation, University of 
Petroleum and Energy Studies, P.O. Bidholi Via-Prem Nagar, Dehradun 248007, 
Uttarakhand, India.

A coronavirus outbreak caused by a novel virus known as SARS-CoV-2 originated 
towards the latter half of 2019. COVID-19's abrupt emergence and unchecked 
global expansion highlight the inability of the current healthcare services to 
respond to public health emergencies promptly. This paper reviews the different 
aspects of human life comprehensively affected by COVID-19. It then discusses 
various tools and technologies from the leading domains and their integration 
into people's lives to overcome issues resulting from pandemics. This paper 
further focuses on providing a detailed review of existing and probable 
Artificial Intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), Augmented Reality (AR), 
Virtual Reality (VR), and Blockchain-based solutions. The COVID-19 pandemic 
brings several challenges from the viewpoint of the nation's healthcare, 
security, privacy, and economy. AI offers different predictive services and 
intelligent strategies for detecting coronavirus signs, promoting drug 
development, remote healthcare, classifying fake news detection, and security 
attacks. The incorporation of AI in the COVID-19 outbreak brings robust and 
reliable solutions to enhance the healthcare systems, increases user's life 
expectancy, and boosts the nation's economy. Furthermore, AR/VR helps in 
distance learning, factory automation, and setting up an environment of work 
from home. Blockchain helps in protecting consumer's privacy, and securing the 
medical supply chain operations. IoT is helpful in remote patient monitoring, 
distant sanitising via drones, managing social distancing (using IoT cameras), 
and many more in combating the pandemic. This study covers an up-to-date 
analysis on the use of blockchain technology, AI, AR/VR, and IoT for combating 
COVID-19 pandemic considering various applications. These technologies provide 
new emerging initiatives and use cases to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. 
