(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(2)Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Institute of Medicine, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital/Östra, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.

BACKGROUND: There is no consensus on the choice of aortic valve prosthesis for 
patients with end-stage renal failure. We analyzed short- and long-term 
complications in dialysis patients who underwent aortic valve replacement (AVR) 
with either a biological (bAVR) or a mechanical (mAVR) prosthesis.
METHODS: All patients on dialysis who underwent bAVR or mAVR in Sweden from 1995 
to 2017 (n=335) were included in a nationwide, population-based, observational, 
cohort study. Short and long-term complications were compared. Long-term 
mortality was compared with multivariable Cox regression analysis adjusted for 
age, sex, comorbidities, and a propensity score-matched model. Median follow-up 
was 2.8 (range, 0-16) years.
RESULTS: Biological and mechanical valves were implanted in 253 (75.5%) and 82 
(24.5%) patients, respectively. The bAVR patients were older and had more 
comorbidities. There was no significant difference in early complication rate. 
Thirty-day mortality was 9.1% in bAVR and 7.3% in mAVR patients (P=0.62). The 
multivariable Cox regression model did not show significant difference in 
mortality risk between bAVR and mAVR patients [adjusted hazard ratio (aHR) 1.33; 
95% CI: 0.84-2.13; P=0.22]. The results were confirmed in the propensity-score 
matched model. The rate of aortic valve reoperations did not differ 
significantly between the bAVR and mAVR group.
CONCLUSIONS: The short- and long-term complication rate is high, and the 
expected life expectancy limited, in dialysis patients undergoing AVR, without 
significant difference between biological and mechanical prostheses. The results 
suggest that biological valve prosthesis, avoiding systemic anticoagulation, is 
appropriate in most dialysis patients.

2022 Journal of Thoracic Disease. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/jtd-21-1410
PMCID: PMC8902132
PMID: 35280474

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
https://jtd.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/jtd-21-1410/coif). AJ reports 
personal fees from Boehringer-Ingelheim, Werfen, Alexion, Baxter, and LFB 
Biomedicaments, research grants from Swedish state, Swedish Heart Lung 
Foundation, Västra Götaland Region and Winberg Foundation, and he was a member 
of the Clinical Guideline Committee for the European Association for 
Cardiothoracic Surgery, outside the submitted work. ECH reports personal fees 
from AstraZeneca and Boehringer-Ingelheim, outside the submitted work. The other 
authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.


383. Biochem Biophys Rep. 2022 Mar 5;30:101241. doi: 10.1016/j.bbrep.2022.101241.
 eCollection 2022 Jul.

Expression analysis of plant intracellular Ras-group related leucine-rich repeat 
proteins (PIRLs) in Arabidopsis thaliana.

Hossain MF(1)(2), Sultana MM(1)(3), Tanaka A(1), Dutta AK(1)(4), Hachiya 
T(1)(2), Nakagawa T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Functional Genomics, Interdisciplinary Center for 
Science Research, Shimane University, Matsue, 690-8504, Japan.
(2)Bioresource and Life Sciences, The United Graduate School of Agricultural 
Sciences, Tottori University, Tottori, 680-8550, Japan.
(3)Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE), Ministry of Agriculture, Dhaka, 
1215, Bangladesh.
(4)Department of Microbiology, University of Rajshahi, Rajshahi, 6205, 
Bangladesh.

Arabidopsis thaliana contains a family of nine genes known as plant 
intracellular Ras-group related leucine-rich repeat (LRR) proteins (PIRLs). 
These are structurally similar to animals and fungal LRR proteins and play 
important roles in developmental pathways. However, to date, no detailed 
tissue-specific expression analysis of these PIRLs has been performed. 
Therefore, in this study, we generated promoter:GUS transgenic plants for the 
nine A. thaliana PIRL genes and identified their expression patterns in 
seedlings and floral organs at different developmental stages. Most PIRL members 
showed expression in the root apical region and in the vascular tissue of 
primary and lateral roots. Shoot apex-specific expression was recorded for PIRL1 
and PIRL8. Furthermore, PIRL1, PIRL3, PIRL5, PIRL6, and PIRL7 showed distinct 
expression patterns in flowers, especially in pollen and anthers. In addition, 
co-expression network analysis identified cases where PIRLs were co-expressed 
with other genes known to have specific functions related to growth and 
development. Taken together, the tissue-specific expression patterns of PIRL 
genes improve our understanding of the functions of this gene family in plant 
growth and development.

© 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrep.2022.101241
PMCID: PMC8904235
PMID: 35280522

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that this study was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial relationships that could lead to any 
potential conflicts of interest.


384. Front Med (Lausanne). 2022 Feb 25;9:754116. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2022.754116. 
eCollection 2022.

A Scoping Review on Use of Drugs Targeting the JAK/STAT Pathway in Psoriasis.

Gómez-García F(1)(2), Gómez-Arias PJ(1)(2), Montilla-López A(1), 
Hernández-Parada J(3), Sanz-Cabanillas JL(1)(2), Ruano J(1)(2), Parra-Peralbo 
E(4).

Author information:
(1)Inflammatory Immune-Mediated Chronic Skin Diseases' Laboratory, Insituto 
Maimónides de Investigación Biomédica de Córdoba (IMIBIC), Reina Sofia 
University Hospital, University of Cordoba, Córdoba, Spain.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Reina Sofia University Hospital, Córdoba, Spain.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Reina Sofia University Hospital, Córdoba, Spain.
(4)Faculty of Biomedical and Health Sciences, Universidad Europea de Madrid, 
Madrid, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: The Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription 
(JAK/STAT) pathway are known to be involved in inflammatory immune-mediated skin 
diseases, including psoriasis. The development of drugs targeting the JAK/STAT 
signaling pathway presents new treatment opportunities for psoriasis. However, 
the application of JAK inhibitors for the treatment of dermatological disorders 
is still in its early stages of development. This review summarizes available 
evidence in an attempt to identify knowledge gaps for conducting further 
research studies and improving clinical decision-making.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to conduct a scoping review of the use 
of drugs targeting the JAK/STAT pathway in the treatment of psoriasis.
METHODS: A priori protocol for scoping review was published in 2019. The Joanna 
Briggs Institute Reviewer's Manual and the PRISMA Extension for Scoping Review 
were used for the review. MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, Scopus, and Web of Science 
databases and ClinicalTrials registry were referred to in April 2019 and March 
2021, respectively. References in English involving evidence on the use of drugs 
targeting the JAK/STAT pathway in patients with psoriasis were included. Data 
charting was performed by two authors using tables and figures.
RESULTS: The evidence found on the efficacy and safety of drugs targeting the 
JAK/STAT pathway in patients with psoriasis comes from 118 articles reporting 
the results of 34 randomized clinical trials (RCTs). Nine different drugs 
administered through various routes were identified (systemic: peficitinib, 
baricitinib, solcitinib, itacitinib, abrocitinib, deucravacitinib, and 
brepocitinib; topical: ruxolitinib; and both: tofacitinib). Knowledge articles 
are mainly created and published by pharmaceutical companies and authors through 
their own funding or by those related to them. Only tofacitinib and 
deucravacitinib have undergone phase III clinical trials, being the only ones 
tested with active comparators etanercept and apremilast, respectively. 
Proportions of Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) and Physician's Global 
Assessment (PGA) were the efficacy variables most frequently studied in systemic 
treatments. Only two RCTs declared the safety data collected by systematic 
assessment; the only systemic drug with phase III data was tofacitinib. 
Tofacitinib 5 mg two times daily (BID)/10 mg BID efficacy was compared with 
etanercept 50 mg/week and a placebo. At 12-16 weeks, PASI 75/PGA 01 ranges were 
as follows: 38.07-80%/37.16-67.4% for tofacitinib 5 mg BID; 54.79-100%/50-75.6% 
for tofacitinib 10 mg BID; 58.8/66.8% for etanercept, date from one only study; 
and 0-33.3%/9.04-33.3% for the placebo group. Other drugs in earlier stages of 
development showed values within these ranges. The most frequent adverse events 
(AEs) were nasopharyngitis and upper respiratory tract infections in all 
treatment groups.
CONCLUSION: There is increasing evidence on the use of drugs targeting the 
JAK/STAT pathway as a treatment for psoriasis, although they are in the early 
phases of development. The trials conducted to date have been financed directly 
or indirectly by the pharmaceutical industry, which must be taken into account 
when interpreting the results of the trials. Psoriasis treatment is currently 
symptomatic and could potentially present a significant risk of toxicity. 
Therefore, the design of principal efficacy outcome measures considering the 
impact of the outcome on quality of life and a drug assessment methodology aimed 
at improving safety would probably strengthen the evidence and decision-making 
process.

Copyright © 2022 Gómez-García, Gómez-Arias, Montilla-López, Hernández-Parada, 
Sanz-Cabanillas, Ruano and Parra-Peralbo.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2022.754116
PMCID: PMC8914468
PMID: 35280877

Conflict of interest statement: FG-G has received honoraria for research from 
Pfizer and for lecturing from AbbVie, Janssen-Cilag, and Novartis. JR has 
received honoraria for lecturing and grants for research from Pfizer, honoraria 
for lecturing from Janssen-Cilag and Novartis, and other financial benefits from 
AbbVie and Novartis. The remaining authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


385. RETRACTED ARTICLE

J Healthc Eng. 2022 Mar 4;2022:9365362. doi: 10.1155/2022/9365362. eCollection 
2022.

Biomechanical Analysis of the Human Knee Joint.

Wang S(1).

Author information:
(1)Shanxi University, Taiyuan 030006, China.

Retraction in
    J Healthc Eng. 2023 Oct 11;2023:9790572.

Exercise is an indispensable part of human daily life. The knee joint is 
inseparable from human movement. The knee is relatively fragile and easy to get 
injuries. Therefore, the biomechanical properties of knee joints were studied. 
The VICON T40S 3D motion acquisition and analysis system and the AMTI 3D force 
measurement platform were used to collect the lower limb kinematics and dynamics 
data of five male volunteers. Then the knee angle and moment of the human body 
are analyzed, the foot pressure was obtained by force plate, and the ground 
reaction force was obtained. The results show that: (1) in terms of knee flexion 
and extension torques, the peak stretching torques occurred in about 25% and 65% 
of the gait cycles. At the beginning of the gait, which is the flexion moment, 
the knee joint produces a moment of -24.65 Nmm, 25% of gait cycles reached the 
maximum peak value of 896.89 Nmm, 65% of gait cycles reached the second peak 
value of 315.81 Nmm; (2) The change of reaction force in a gait cycle is: when 
the ground starts to react, the ground reaction reaches 600 N. At normal times, 
the ground reaction force rapidly rises to the maximum value of 890 N; when the 
gait is in the middle of a single support phase, the ground reaction force is 
462 N; when the ankle joint moves in plantar flexion, the ground reaction force 
increases to 830 N again; finally, when the toe is lifted off the ground, the 
ground reaction force quickly drops to zero; (3) in the course of a gait cycle, 
the spatial and temporal parameter curve distribution of the subjects was 
consistent, and the difference was not significant (P > 0.05).

Copyright © 2022 Sheng Wang.

DOI: 10.1155/2022/9365362
PMCID: PMC8916872
PMID: 35281538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


386. N Am Spine Soc J. 2022 Jan 16;9:100100. doi: 10.1016/j.xnsj.2022.100100. 
eCollection 2022 Mar.

Maximum gait speed and lumbar spinal mobility can affect quality of life in 
elderly women with lumbar kyphosis.

Endo T(1), Shirado O(1), Tominaga R(1), Sato K(1), Miura T(1), Iwabuchi M(1), 
Ito T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Orthopaedic and Spinal Surgery, and Rehabilitation, AMEC (Aizu 
Medical Center) at Fukushima Medical University, Aizuwakamatsu, Fukushima, 
Japan.
(2)Hokkaido Chitose College of Rehabilitation, Chitose City, Hokkaido, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The site and angle of kyphosis are important factors that affect 
quality of life (QOL). Lumbar kyphosis, rather than thoracic kyphosis, is 
reported to affect the QOL in patients with kyphosis. Increased angle of 
kyphosis in elderly people is associated with a decline in motor and physical 
functions, and also correlates with reduced QOL. Investigation of how physical 
performance affects their QOL would be helpful in developing an effective 
physical therapy program for elderly patients with kyphosis. The aims of the 
current study were to evaluate the physical performance including back muscle 
strength, spinal range of motion, and walking ability in elderly patients with 
lumbar kyphosis, and to examine its association with back pain-specific QOL.
METHODS: The design of this study is a cross-sectional study in a single 
hospital. A total of 51 elderly women aged 65 years or older diagnosed with 
kyphosis were enrolled in the study. The items evaluated were back pain (visual 
analog scale [VAS]), back-pain specific QOL (the Oswestry Disability Index 
[ODI]), maximum gait speed, thoracic kyphosis angle, lumbar lordosis angle, 
sacral inclination, spinal inclination, trunk extension/flexion range of motion 
(ROM), thoracic spinal ROM, lumbar spinal ROM, and back muscle strength. Data 
were analyzed using bivariate analyses and multivariate regression analyses.
RESULTS: Significant positive correlations were observed between ODI and VAS 
(rs=0.506) or spinal inclination (rs=0.626). Significant negative correlations 
were observed between ODI and maximum gait speed (rs=-0.664), lumbar lordosis 
angle, (rs=-0.553), trunk extension ROM (rs=-0.571), lumbar spinal ROM 
(rs=-0.651), or back muscle strength (rs=-0.521). Multiple regression analysis 
demonstrated that maximum gait speed (standard partial regression coefficient; 
b=0.484) and lumbar spinal ROM (b=0.463) had a significant impact on ODI. The 
results of analysis of variance were significant with R2 of 0.622.
CONCLUSIONS: The current study demonstrated that maximum gait speed and lumbar 
spinal ROM influenced back-pain specific QOL in the elderly women with lumbar 
kyphosis. Maximum gait speed and lumbar spinal ROM should be evaluated 
thoroughly to effectively perform non-operative treatment in elderly people with 
lumbar kyphosis.

© 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of North American Spine 
Society.

DOI: 10.1016/j.xnsj.2022.100100
PMCID: PMC8907301
PMID: 35281994

Conflict of interest statement: Authors declare that they have no conflict of 
interest.


387. Front Psychol. 2022 Feb 25;13:712660. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.712660. 
eCollection 2022.

Gender Differences in Perceived Stress and Its Relationship to Telomere Length 
in Costa Rican Adults.

Méndez-Chacón E(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro Centroamericano de Población, Escuela de Estadística, Universidad de 
Costa Rica, San José, Costa Rica.

INTRODUCTION: Stress is associated with disease and reduced leukocyte telomere 
length (LTL). The objective of this research is to determine if self-perceived 
stress is associated with telomere length in Costa Rican adults and the gender 
differences in this association. Findings may help explain how some populations 
in apparent socioeconomic disadvantage and with limited access to specialized 
medical services have a remarkably high life expectancy.
METHODOLOGY: Data come from the pre-retirement cohort of the Costa Rican 
Longevity and Healthy Aging Study (CRELES), a population based survey conducted 
in the households to 2,327 adults aged 53 to 66 years. The DNA to measure LTL 
was extracted from blood cells in laboratories of the University of Costa Rica 
whereas the Blackburn laboratory at the University of California performed the 
telomere length measurement applying the quantitative polymerase chain reaction 
(Q-PCR). The relationship between telomere length and perceived stress was 
measured using least-squares multiple regression. Perceived stress was measured 
by a set of questions about family, job, finances and, health reasons to be 
stressed. Models included the control variables: (1) age and sex of the 
participant, (2) whether he or she resides in the Nicoya area, a "blue zone" 
known for its high longevity, and (3) the aforementioned sociodemographic, 
health and lifestyles characteristics.
RESULTS: Stress perception and LTL are significantly different by sex. Women 
perceived higher stress levels than men in almost all aspects studied, except 
work. Women have significantly longer telomeres. Shorter telomeres are 
significantly associated with caregiving stress in men and with parental health 
concerns in women. Counter-intuitive telomere lengthenings were observed among 
women who feel stressed about caring for family members; and among men who feel 
stressed due to their family relationships as well as concerns about their own 
health.
DISCUSSION: Results confirm that people with self-perceived stress due to 
caregiving or health issues have shorter telomeres. The relationship between 
stress and telomere length differs between men and women. Gender relations exert 
a strong modifier effect on the relationship between stress and LTL: gender is 
related to perceived stress, telomere length, and apparently also to the way 
stress and LTL are related.

Copyright © 2022 Méndez-Chacón.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.712660
PMCID: PMC8915848
PMID: 35282254

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


388. Front Cardiovasc Med. 2022 Feb 23;9:783576. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2022.783576. 
eCollection 2022.

New Insights in Central Venous Disorders. The Role of Transvenous Lead 
Extractions.

Domenichini G(1), Le Bloa M(1), Carroz P(1), Graf D(1), Herrera-Siklody C(1), 
Teres C(1), Porretta AP(1), Pascale P(1), Pruvot E(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Service, University Hospital of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.

Over the last decades, the implementation of new technology in cardiac 
pacemakers and defibrillators as well as the increasing life expectancy have 
been associated with a higher incidence of transvenous lead complications over 
time. Variable degrees of venous stenosis at the level of the subclavian vein, 
the innominate trunk and the superior vena cava are reported in up to 50% of 
implanted patients. Importantly, the number of implanted leads seems to be the 
main risk factor for such complications. Extraction of abandoned or 
dysfunctional leads is a potential solution to overcome venous stenosis in case 
of device upgrades requiring additional leads, but also, in addition to venous 
angioplasty and stenting, to reduce symptoms related to the venous stenosis 
itself, i.e., the superior vena cava syndrome. This review explores the role of 
transvenous lead extraction procedures as therapeutical option in case of 
central venous disorders related to transvenous cardiac leads. We also describe 
the different extraction techniques available and other clinical indications for 
lead extractions such as lead infections. Finally, we discuss the alternative 
therapeutic options for cardiac stimulation or defibrillation in case of chronic 
venous occlusions that preclude the implant of conventional transvenous cardiac 
devices.

Copyright © 2022 Domenichini, Le Bloa, Carroz, Graf, Herrera-Siklody, Teres, 
Porretta, Pascale and Pruvot.

DOI: 10.3389/fcvm.2022.783576
PMCID: PMC8904723
PMID: 35282352

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


389. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2022 Feb 25;13:838027. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2022.838027. eCollection 2022.

Prevalence, Deaths and Disability-Adjusted-Life-Years (DALYs) Due to Type 2 
Diabetes and Its Attributable Risk Factors in 204 Countries and Territories, 
1990-2019: Results From the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

Safiri S(1)(2), Karamzad N(3), Kaufman JS(4), Bell AW(5)(6), Nejadghaderi 
SA(2)(7), Sullman MJM(8)(9), Moradi-Lakeh M(10), Collins G(11)(12), Kolahi 
AA(13).

Author information:
(1)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Department of Community 
Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(2)Research Center for Integrative Medicine in Aging, Aging Research Institute, 
Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(3)Nutrition Research Center, Department of Biochemistry and Diet Therapy, 
School of Nutrition and Food Sciences, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, Faculty of 
Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(5)Health Sciences Integrated Program, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, 
United States.
(6)Department of Global Health and Social Medicine, Harvard University, Boston, 
MA, United States.
(7)Systematic Review and Meta-analysis Expert Group (SRMEG), Universal 
Scientific Education and Research Network (USERN), Tehran, Iran.
(8)Department of Life and Health Sciences, University of Nicosia, Nicosia, 
Cyprus.
(9)Department of Social Sciences, University of Nicosia, Nicosia, Cyprus.
(10)Preventive Medicine and Public Health Research Center, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(11)Centre for Statistics in Medicine, NDORMS, Botnar Research Centre, 
University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(12)NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Centre, Oxford University Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(13)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

AIM: To report the point prevalence, deaths and disability-adjusted-life-years 
(DALYs) due to type 2 diabetes and its attributable risk factors in 204 
countries and territories during the period 1990-2019.
METHODS: We used the data of the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) Study 2019 to 
report number and age-standardised rates per 100 000 population of type 2 
diabetes. Estimates were reported with 95% uncertainty intervals (UIs).
RESULTS: In 2019, the global age-standardised point prevalence and death rates 
for type 2 diabetes were 5282.9 and 18.5 per 100 000, an increase of 49% and 
10.8%, respectively, since 1990. Moreover, the global age-standardised DALY rate 
in 2019 was 801.5 per 100 000, an increase of 27.6% since 1990. In 2019, the 
global point prevalence of type 2 diabetes was slightly higher in males and 
increased with age up to the 75-79 age group, decreasing across the remaining 
age groups. American Samoa [19876.8] had the highest age-standardised point 
prevalence rates of type 2 diabetes in 2019. Generally, the burden of type 2 
diabetes decreased with increasing SDI (Socio-demographic Index). Globally, high 
body mass index [51.9%], ambient particulate matter pollution [13.6%] and 
smoking [9.9%] had the three highest proportions of attributable DALYs.
CONCLUSION: Low and middle-income countries have the highest burden and greater 
investment in type 2 diabetes prevention is needed. In addition, accurate data 
on type 2 diabetes needs to be collected by the health systems of all countries 
to allow better monitoring and evaluation of population-level interventions.

Copyright © 2022 Safiri, Karamzad, Kaufman, Bell, Nejadghaderi, Sullman, 
Moradi-Lakeh, Collins and Kolahi.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2022.838027
PMCID: PMC8915203
PMID: 35282442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


390. Cureus. 2022 Feb 8;14(2):e22021. doi: 10.7759/cureus.22021. eCollection 2022
 Feb.

Prevalence and Management of Metabolic Syndrome in Adult Psychiatric Patients 
Receiving Second-Generation Antipsychotics at Sheikh Khalifa Medical City.

Mohammed W(1), Al Naeem W(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy, Sheikh Khalifa Medical City, Abu Dhabi, ARE.

Introduction The establishment of second-generation antipsychotics in the early 
1900s has shown greater benefits in many outcome domains. As atypical 
antipsychotics revealed an improvement in the shortcomings of first-generation 
antipsychotics, they also have significant limitations in terms of side effects. 
Background As a class, atypical antipsychotics have a more satisfactory profile 
in terms of extrapyramidal side effects but have other side effects, including 
metabolic syndrome. Moreover, a patient with severe mental illness has reduced 
life expectancy compared to the general population and increased dying risk by 
two to three folds due to the associated risk of metabolic syndrome. Metabolic 
syndrome induced by second-generation antipsychotics requires routine 
monitoring, suitable intervention, and management, including lifestyle 
modification, caregiver education, and the use of other medications 
like lipid-lowering agents, anti-diabetics, and adjunctive therapies. Method 
This is a retrospective observational study that involves a review of medical 
records of adult patients attending the psychiatry outpatient clinics in Shaikh 
Khalifa Medical City to whom oral second-generation atypical antipsychotics were 
prescribed between January 2016 and December 2017. All pediatric patients were 
excluded, as well as those who are on other agents known to induce metabolic 
syndrome, including first-generation antipsychotics, mood stabilizers, 
anxiolytics, and anti-depressants. Besides, a patient who already developed 
metabolic syndrome before starting atypical antipsychotics was excluded as well. 
IBM SPSS v. 25 (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY) and Jamovi 1.0.4.0 (The jamovi project 
(2021). [Computer Software]. Retrieved from https://www.jamovi.org) were used 
for statistical analysis. The Shapiro-Wilk was used to test for normality of 
data, One-way repeated measure analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to 
determine whether there are any statistically significant differences between 
the means of BMI across the three pre-specified time points, Kendall's tau was 
used to test the correlation between categorical variables, and the paired 
t-test was used to determine whether there was a statistically significant mean 
difference between BMI at baseline and after one year, a p-value above 0.05 is 
considered non-significant. Result A total of 123 patients were included in this 
study out of 4123 patients. An olanzapine disintegrating tablet was the most 
used atypical antipsychotic among the study population, followed by risperidone 
and quetiapine, respectively. Furthermore, BMI was statistically significantly 
increased from baseline to six months (M = 2.37 kg/m2, p = .002), and from 
baseline to 12 months (M =3.26 kg/m2, p < .001) but not from six months to 12 
months (M =1.41 kg/m2, p = .346). Due to lack of documentation and monitoring, 
it was difficult to assess the continuous change in total cholesterol 
level/high-density lipoprotein, glucose, and HbA1C level. It was observed that 
nine (7.32%) patients of those who have been included in the study started a 
treatment to manage the metabolic syndrome. Conclusion Patients on 
second-generation antipsychotics must be monitored and treated in case of 
metabolic syndrome development to decrease the high risk of mortality in such 
patients. Documentation of such complications, patient treatment, and progress 
is essential for outcome improvement.

Copyright © 2022, Mohammed et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.22021
PMCID: PMC8908942
PMID: 35282550

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


391. Pharmacol Res. 2022 Apr;178:106176. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2022.106176. Epub
2022  Mar 10.

8-Shogaol inhibits rheumatoid arthritis through targeting TAK1.

Jo S(1), Samarpita S(2), Lee JS(1), Lee YJ(1), Son JE(3), Jeong M(4), Kim JH(1), 
Hong S(5), Yoo SA(6), Kim WU(7), Rasool M(8), Byun S(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Yonsei University, Seoul 03722, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Immunopathology Lab, School of Bio Sciences and Technology, Vellore Institute 
of Technology (VIT), Vellore 632 014, Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)Program in Developmental & Stem Cell Biology, The Hospital for Sick Children, 
Toronto, ON M5G 0A4, Canada.
(4)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, Seoul National University, Seoul 
08826, Republic of Korea.
(5)Food Functionality Research Division, Korea Food Research Institute, 
Wanju-gun, Jeollabuk-do, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of biomedicine and health sciences, The Catholic University of 
Korea, Seoul 06591, Republic of Korea.
(7)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, Catholic 
University of Korea, Seoul 06591, Republic of Korea.
(8)Immunopathology Lab, School of Bio Sciences and Technology, Vellore Institute 
of Technology (VIT), Vellore 632 014, Tamil Nadu, India. Electronic address: 
mkr474@gmail.com.
(9)Department of Biotechnology, Yonsei University, Seoul 03722, Republic of 
Korea. Electronic address: sanguine@yonsei.ac.kr.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic immune-mediated disorder, mainly 
characterized by synovial inflammation and joint damage. If insufficiently 
treated, RA can lead to irreversible joint destruction and decreased life 
expectancy. While better understanding of the pathologies and the development of 
new antirheumatic drugs have improved the outcome of individuals with RA, many 
patients still cannot achieve remission and experience progressive disability. 
Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) have gained attention due to its pivotal role 
in RA pathogenesis and thus targeting FLS has been suggested as an attractive 
therapeutic strategy. To identify candidate molecules with strong inhibitory 
activity against FLS inflammation, we tested the effect of 315 natural extracts 
against IL-17-mediated IL-6 production. Zingiber officinale was found as the top 
hit and further analysis on the active compound responsible led to the discovery 
of 8-shogaol as a potent molecule against synovitis. 8-Shogaol displayed 
significant inhibitory effects against TNF-α-, IL-1β-, and IL-17-mediated 
inflammation and migration in RA patient-derived FLS (RA-FLS) and 3D synovial 
culture system. 8-Shogaol selectively and directly inhibited TAK1 activity and 
subsequently suppressed IKK, Akt, and MAPK signaling pathways. Moreover, 
treatment with 8-shogaol reduced paw thickness and improved walking performance 
in the adjuvant-induced arthritic (AIA) rat model. 8-Shogaol also reversed 
pathologies of joint structure in AIA rats and decreased inflammatory biomarkers 
in the joints. Collectively, we report a novel natural compound that inhibits RA 
through reversing pathologies of the inflamed synovium via targeting TAK1.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2022.106176
PMID: 35283302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Malays J Med Sci. 2022 Feb;29(1):138-144. doi: 10.21315/mjms2022.29.1.13.
Epub  2022 Feb 23.

Prediction of Productivity Costs Related to Cervical Cancer Mortality in 
Indonesia 2018.

Kristina SA(1), Endarti D(1), Aditama H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universitas Gadjah Mada, 
Yogyakarta, Indonesia.

BACKGROUND: Cervical cancer is the second leading cause of death in Indonesia, 
causing a significant societal burden. This study aims to quantify the burden of 
cervical cancer in terms of years of life lost (YLL) and productivity cost to 
support the idea that cervical cancer has substantial economic implications.
METHODS: Using an epidemiological approach on the prevalence data of 2018, the 
productivity cost and YLL were estimated by calculating the number of cervical 
cancer deaths, life expectancy, annual earnings and employment participation 
rate. Cervical cancer mortality data were obtained from the Global Cancer 
Observatory (GLOBOCAN) 2018, life expectancy for Indonesia from the WHO Life 
Tables (2019), and the annual earnings and participation rate of Indonesia were 
retrieved from the National Statistics Bureau (2018).
RESULTS: In 2018, there were 17,253 deaths due to cervical cancer in Indonesia, 
resulting in 246,350 YLL with a total productivity cost of Indonesian Rupiah 
(IDR)23,174 trillion. The age group of 50 years old-64 years old experienced the 
greatest loss of earnings (IDR12,149 trillion), followed by the 35 years old-49 
years old (IDR8,944 trillion) and 20 years old-34 years old (IDR8,944 trillion) 
age groups.
CONCLUSION: The productivity impact of loss of earning due to cervical cancer 
mortality is significant. This information may assist decision makers in 
allocating scarce resources among competing priorities.

© Penerbit Universiti Sains Malaysia, 2022.

DOI: 10.21315/mjms2022.29.1.13
PMCID: PMC8887984
PMID: 35283686

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interests None.


393. South Afr J HIV Med. 2022 Feb 24;23(1):1335. doi:
10.4102/sajhivmed.23i1.1335.  eCollection 2022.

Age-related differences in the vascular function and structure of South Africans 
living with HIV.

Louwrens A(1), Fourie CMT(1)(2), Roux SB(1)(2), Breet Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Hypertension in Africa Research Team (HART), School for Physiology, Nutrition 
and Consumer Science, Faculty of Health Sciences, North-West University, 
Potchefstroom, South Africa.
(2)MRC Research Unit for Hypertension and Cardiovascular Disease, Faculty of 
Health Sciences, North-West University, Potchefstroom, South Africa.

BACKGROUND: As the life expectancy of people living with the HIV increases 
because of antiretroviral treatment (ART), their risk for vascular 
co-morbidities and early vascular ageing (EVA) also increases.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to investigate whether HIV infection relates to vascular 
structure and function in black South African adults and whether this 
relationship is age dependent.
METHOD: This cross-sectional study carried out in urban and rural areas of North 
West province, South Africa, included 572 age- and sex-matched people living 
with HIV (PLWH) and without HIV. Participants from the EndoAfrica study and PURE 
study were stratified according to tertiles of age. Measures of vascular 
structure (carotid intima-media thickness) and function (carotid-femoral pulse 
wave velocity, central systolic blood pressure, central pulse pressure and pulse 
pressure amplification) were determined.
RESULTS: Blood pressure measures were lower in PLWH compared with their controls 
(all P ≤ 0.001), especially in the younger and middle-aged groups (all P ≤ 
0.031), whilst vascular measures did not differ (all P ≥ 0.611). In multivariate 
linear regression analyses, vascular measures were not associated with a HIV- 
positive status in either the total or any of the age groups.
CONCLUSION: Black South Africans living with HIV have a less adverse blood 
pressure profile than their counterparts without HIV. The HIV-positive status 
was not associated with measures of vascular structure or function in any age 
group. The results suggest that HIV does not contribute to EVA in this 
population; however, further longitudinal investigation is warranted.

© 2022. The Authors.

DOI: 10.4102/sajhivmed.23i1.1335
PMCID: PMC8905456
PMID: 35284097

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no financial 
or personal relationships that may have inappropriately influenced them in 
writing this article.


394. Front Public Health. 2022 Feb 25;10:851344. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.851344. 
eCollection 2022.

Green Logistics and Health in OBRI Economies: Does Social Marketing Matter?

Zhang L(1), Chang HL(2), Dai Y(3), Umut A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Marketing, School of Business, Wuchang University of 
Technology, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Accounting, Ling Tung University, Taichung City, Taiwan.
(3)The People's Bank of China, Guangzhou Branch, Guangzhou, China.
(4)Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences, Department of Economics and 
Finance, Nisantasi University, Istanbul, Turkey.

In this study, our primary focus is to capture the impact of green logistics and 
social marketing on health outcomes in One Belt Road Initiative (OBRI) countries 
over the time period 2007-2019. Two estimation techniques, i.e., 2SLS and GMM, 
are employed to get the estimates of our variables. Findings of the 2SLS model 
confirmed the negative impact of green logistics on infant mortality in OBRI, 
European, MENA, and Asian countries. On the other side, the relationship between 
green logistics and life expectancy is positive in all the regions in 2SLS 
models. The other estimation technique also supports these findings, GMM, which 
confirmed the negative impact of green logistics on infant mortality and the 
positive impact of green logistics on life expectancy OBRI, European, MENA, and 
Asian economies. From these findings, we can conclude that green logistics helps 
to improve the health status of OBRI economies. Similarly, social marketing also 
improves the health status in OBRI and other regions in both models. Therefore, 
the governments and policymakers in respective economies should focus on the 
development of green infrastructure and logistics that, on one side, promote 
economic growth. However, on the other side, it helps improve environmental 
quality, which ultimately improves the OBRI economies' health status.

Copyright © 2022 Zhang, Chang, Dai and Umut.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.851344
PMCID: PMC8914036
PMID: 35284386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


395. Orthop J Sports Med. 2022 Mar 8;10(3):23259671221079672. doi: 
10.1177/23259671221079672. eCollection 2022 Mar.

Self-efficacy and Emotional Distress in a Cohort With Patellofemoral Pain.

Hott A(1), Pripp AH(2), Juel NG(3), Liavaag S(4), Brox JI(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Sørlandet Hospital 
Kristiansand, Kristiansand, Norway.
(2)Oslo Centre for Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Oslo University Hospital, 
Oslo, Norway.
(3)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Oslo University Hospital, 
Oslo, Norway.
(4)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Sørlandet Hospital Kristiansand, 
Kristiansand, Norway.
(5)Faculty of Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Patellofemoral pain (PFP) is commonly described and approached in 
biomechanical terms despite strong evidence that psychosocial factors such as 
kinesiophobia, emotional distress, and self-efficacy are important in 
long-standing musculoskeletal pain.
PURPOSE: To describe levels of self-efficacy, emotional distress, kinesiophobia, 
and widespread pain in a cohort with long-standing PFP and determine their 
association with measures of pain, function, and health-related quality of life.
STUDY DESIGN: Cross-sectional study; Level of evidence, 3.
METHODS: Included were 112 patients with PFP (age range, 16-40 years) who had 
been recruited to a randomized controlled trial. Seven baseline factors (patient 
sex, pain duration, number of pain sites throughout the body, kinesiophobia 
[Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia], emotional distress [Hopkins Symptom Checklist], 
self-efficacy, and knee extension strength) were investigated for associations 
with the following outcomes: symptoms of PFP (Anterior Knee Pain Scale), pain 
(worst and usual), and health-related quality of life (5-level EuroQol-5 
Dimensions [EQ-5D-5L]). We used bivariate models and multivariable linear 
regression models with a stepwise backward removal method to find associations 
with the outcomes. Internal validation was conducted, and adjusted coefficients 
after shrinkage are presented.
RESULTS: Of the study patients, 28% reported emotional distress (Hopkins Symptom 
Checklist ≥1.75), 69% reported multiple pain sites, and 33% had widespread pain. 
The kinesiophobia score was elevated, with a mean score of 35.4 ± 8.2. 
Self-efficacy was strongly associated with better function (Anterior Knee Pain 
Scale) and health-related quality of life (EQ-5D-5L) as well as lower pain 
scores in bivariate and multivariable models. Self-efficacy and emotional 
distress explained 50% of the variance in health-related quality of life 
(EQ-5D-5L).
CONCLUSION: Our findings support other studies of PFP suggesting elevated levels 
of kinesiophobia and emotional distress and higher rates of widespread pain 
compared with the general population or pain-free controls. Higher self-efficacy 
was associated with better function and health-related quality of life. Together 
with emotional distress, it explained half the variance of health-related life 
quality. The results underline the importance of approaching these patients in a 
biopsychosocial model.
REGISTRATION: NCT02114294 (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier).

© The Author(s) 2022.

DOI: 10.1177/23259671221079672
PMCID: PMC8908394
PMID: 35284585

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that there are no 
conflicts of interest in the authorship and publication of this contribution. 
AOSSM checks author disclosures against the Open Payments Database (OPD). AOSSM 
has not conducted an independent investigation on the OPD and disclaims any 
liability or responsibility relating thereto.


396. EClinicalMedicine. 2022 Mar 6;45:101329. doi: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2022.101329. 
eCollection 2022 Mar.

Cardiovascular health and healthy longevity in people with and without 
cardiometabolic disease: A prospective cohort study.

Xu C(1), Zhang P(2), Cao Z(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)School of Public Health, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(3)School of Public Health, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Yuhangtang 
Road 866, Hangzhou 310058, China.

BACKGROUND: Existing evidence suggest an association of cardiovascular health 
(CVH) level with cardiometabolic disease (CMD) and mortality, but the effect of 
CVH on life expectancy, particularly survival years in CMD patients, has not 
been well-established. This study aimed to investigate the association of CVH 
defined using the 7-item tool from the American Heart Association (AHA) with 
life expectancy in people with and without CMD.
METHODS: Between 2006 and 2010, a total of 341,331 participants (age 37-73 
years) in the UK Biobank were examined and thereafter followed up to 2020. The 
CVH raised by the AHA included 4 behavioral (smoking, diet, physical activity, 
body mass index) and 3 biological (fasting glucose, blood cholesterol, blood 
pressure) metrics, coded on a three-point scale (0, 1, 2). The CVH score was the 
sum of 7 metrics (score range 0-14) and was then categorized into poor (scores 
0-6), intermediate (7-11), and ideal (12-14) CVH. The flexible parametric 
survival models were applied to estimate life expectancy.
FINDINGS: During a median follow-up of 11.4 years, 18,420 (5.4%) deaths 
occurred. The multivariable-adjusted hazard ratio (HRs) of all-cause mortality 
were 2.21 (95% CI: 1.77 to 2.75) for male and 2.63 (95% CI: 2.22 to 3.12) for 
female with prevalent CMD and a poor CVH compared with CMD-free and ideal CVH 
group, an ideal CVH attenuated the CMD-related risk of mortality by 
approximately 62% for male and 53% for female. In CMD patients, an ideal CVH 
compared to poor CVH was associated with additional life years gain of 5.50 (95% 
CI: 3.94-7.05) for male 4.20 (95% CI: 2.77-5.62) for female at the age of 45 
years. Corresponding estimates in those without CMD were 4.55 (95% CI: 
3.62-5.48) and 4.89 (95% CI: 3.99-5.79), respectively. Ideal smoking status, 
fasting glucose and physical activity for male and ideal smoking status, 
cholesterol level and physical activity for female contributed to the greatest 
survival benefit.
INTERPRETATION: An ideal CVH is associated with a lower risk of premature 
mortality and longer life expectancy whether in general population or CMD 
patients. Our study highlights the benefits of maintaining better CVH across the 
life course and calls attention to the need for comprehensive strategies 
(healthy behavioral lifestyle and biological phenotypes) to preserve and restore 
a higher CVH level.
FUNDING: Scientific Research Foundation for Scholars of HZNU (Grant No. 
4265C50221204119).

© 2022 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2022.101329
PMCID: PMC8904213
PMID: 35284807

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


397. Neurol Ther. 2022 Jun;11(2):741-758. doi: 10.1007/s40120-022-00341-z. Epub
2022  Mar 13.

COVID-19 Outcomes and Vaccination in People with Relapsing Multiple Sclerosis 
Treated with Ofatumumab.

Cross AH(1), Delgado S(2), Habek M(3), Davydovskaya M(4), Ward BJ(5), Cree 
BAC(6), Totolyan N(7), Pingili R(8), Mancione L(8), Hu X(8), Sullivan R(8), Su 
W(8), Zielman R(9), Gupta AD(10), Montalban X(11), Winthrop K(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, USA. 
crossa@wustl.edu.
(2)University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL, USA.
(3)University Hospital Center Zagreb, University of Zagreb, School of Medicine, 
Zagreb, Croatia.
(4)Moscow State Public Healthcare InsCity Clinical Hospital 24, Moscow, Russia.
(5)Infectious Diseases Division, Research Institute of the McGill University 
Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(6)UCSF Weill Institute for Neurosciences, Department of Neurology, University 
of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(7)First Saint Petersburg State Medical University, St. Petersburg, Russia.
(8)Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, NJ, USA.
(9)Novartis Pharma B.V., Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(10)Novartis Healthcare Private Limited, Hyderabad, India.
(11)Department of Neurology-Neuroimmunology, Centre d'Esclerosi Múltiple de 
Catalunya (Cemcat), Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Barcelona, Spain.
(12)School of Public Health at Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, 
OR, USA.

Erratum in
    Neurol Ther. 2022 May 3;:

INTRODUCTION: The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic necessitated better understanding of the 
impact of disease-modifying therapies on COVID-19 outcomes and vaccination. We 
report characteristics of COVID-19 cases and vaccination status in 
ofatumumab-treated relapsing multiple sclerosis (RMS) patients.
METHODS: COVID-19 data analyzed were from the ongoing, open-label, long-term 
extension phase 3b ALITHIOS study from December 2019 (pandemic start) and 
post-marketing cases from August 2020 (ofatumumab first approval) up to 25 
September 2021. COVID-19 cases, severity, seriousness, outcomes, vaccination 
status, and breakthrough infection were evaluated.
RESULTS: As of 25 September 2021, 245 of 1703 patients (14.4%) enrolled in 
ALITHIOS receiving ofatumumab (median exposure: 2.45 years) reported COVID-19 
(confirmed: 210; suspected: 35). Most COVID-19 was of mild (44.1%) or moderate 
(46.5%) severity, but 9% had severe/life-threatening COVID-19. There were 24 
serious cases (9.8%) with 23 patients hospitalized; 22 recovered and 2 died. At 
study cut-off, 241 patients (98.4%) had recovered or were recovering or had 
recovered with sequelae and 2 (0.8%) had not recovered. Ofatumumab was 
temporarily interrupted in 39 (15.9%) patients. Before COVID-19 onset, IgG 
levels were within the normal range in all COVID-19-affected patients, while IgM 
was < 0.4 g/l in 23 (9.4%) patients. No patient had a reinfection. Overall, 559 
patients were vaccinated (full, 476; partial, 74; unspecified, 9). Breakthrough 
infection was reported in 1.5% (7/476) patients, and 11 reported COVID-19 after 
partial vaccination. As of 25 September 2021, the Novartis Safety Database 
(~ 4713 patient-treatment years) recorded 90 confirmed COVID-19 cases receiving 
ofatumumab. Most cases were non-serious (n = 80), and ten were serious (1 
medically significant, 9 hospitalized, 0 deaths). Among 36 of 90 cases with 
outcomes reported, 30 recovered and 6 did not recover.
CONCLUSION: COVID-19 in RMS patients on ofatumumab was primarily of 
mild/moderate severity and non-serious in these observational data. Most 
recovered from COVID-19 without treatment interruption. Two people died with 
COVID-19. Breakthrough COVID-19 despite being fully/partially vaccinated was 
uncommon.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40120-022-00341-z
PMCID: PMC8918079
PMID: 35284994


398. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2022 Jul;20(4):557-572. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-022-00723-2. Epub 2022 Mar 14.

How Responsive is Mortality to Locally Administered Healthcare Expenditure? 
Estimates for England for 2014/15.

Martin S(1), Claxton K(2)(3), Lomas J(3), Longo F(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of York, York, YO10 5DD, UK. 
sdm1@york.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Economics, University of York, York, YO10 5DD, UK.
(3)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, YO10 5DD, UK.

BACKGROUND: Research using local English data from 2003 to 2012 suggests that a 
1% increase in healthcare expenditure causes a 0.78% reduction in mortality, and 
that it costs the NHS £10,000 to generate an additional quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY). In 2013, the existing 151 local health authorities (Primary Care 
Trusts) were abolished and replaced with 212 Clinical Commissioning Groups 
(CCGs). CCGs retained responsibility for secondary care and pharmaceuticals, but 
responsibility for primary care and specialised commissioning returned to 
central administrators.
OBJECTIVES: The aim was to extend and apply existing methods to more recent data 
using a new geography and expenditure base, while improving covariate selection 
and examining the responsiveness of mortality to expenditure across the 
mortality distribution.
METHODS: Instrumental variable regression is used to quantify the relationship 
between mortality and local expenditure. Backward selection and regularised 
regression are used to identify parsimonious specifications. These results are 
combined with information about survival and morbidity disease burden to 
calculate the marginal cost per QALY. Unconditional quantile regression (UQR) is 
used to examine the response of mortality to expenditure across the mortality 
distribution.
RESULTS: Backward selection and regularised regression both suggest that the 
marginal cost per QALY in 2014/15 was about £7000 for locally commissioned 
services. The UQR results suggest that additional expenditure generates larger 
health benefits in high-mortality areas and that, if anything, the average size 
of this heterogeneous response is larger than the response at the mean.
CONCLUSIONS: The new healthcare geography and expenditure base can be used to 
update estimates of the health opportunity costs associated with additional 
expenditure. The variation in the mortality response across the mortality 
distribution suggests that the use of the response at the mean will, if 
anything, underestimate the health opportunity costs associated with a national 
policy or nationally mandated guidance on the use of new technologies. The 
health opportunity costs of such policies are likely to be greater (lower) in 
areas of higher (lower) mortality, increasing health inequalities.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-022-00723-2
PMID: 35285000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Int J Cancer. 2022 Jul 15;151(2):287-296. doi: 10.1002/ijc.34000. Epub 2022
Mar  21.

Finding the optimal mammography screening strategy: A cost-effectiveness 
analysis of 920 modelled strategies.

Kregting LM(1), Sankatsing VDV(1), Heijnsdijk EAM(1), de Koning HJ(1), van 
Ravesteyn NT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Int J Cancer. 2022 Aug 15;151(4):649-650.
    Int J Cancer. 2022 Aug 15;151(4):651-652.

Breast cancer screening policies have been designed decades ago, but current 
screening strategies may not be optimal anymore. Next to that, screening 
capacity issues may restrict feasibility. This cost-effectiveness study 
evaluates an extensive set of breast cancer screening strategies in the 
Netherlands. Using the Microsimulation Screening Analysis-Breast (MISCAN-Breast) 
model, the cost-effectiveness of 920 breast cancer screening strategies with 
