should be taken to raise community awareness, particularly among intimate 
partners, their families, and government officials.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12905-022-01685-2
PMCID: PMC8994176
PMID: 35397559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors declare that no competing interests.


763. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2022 Jul;7(7):627-647. doi: 
10.1016/S2468-1253(22)00044-9. Epub 2022 Apr 7.

Global, regional, and national burden of colorectal cancer and its risk factors, 
1990-2019: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Colorectal Cancer Collaborators.

Collaborators: Sharma R, Abbasi-Kangevari M, Abd-Rabu R, Abidi H, Abu-Gharbieh 
E, Acuna JM, Adhikari S, Advani SM, Afzal MS, Aghaie Meybodi M, Ahinkorah BO, 
Ahmad S, Ahmadi A, Ahmadi S, Ahmed H, Ahmed LA, Ahmed MB, Al Hamad H, Alahdab F, 
Alanezi FM, Alanzi TM, Alhalaiqa FAN, Alimohamadi Y, Alipour V, Aljunid SM, 
Alkhayyat M, Almustanyir S, Al-Raddadi RM, Alvand S, Alvis-Guzman N, Amini S, 
Ancuceanu R, Anoushiravani A, Anoushirvani AA, Ansari-Moghaddam A, Arabloo J, 
Aryannejad A, Asghari Jafarabadi M, Athari SS, Ausloos F, Ausloos M, Awedew AF, 
Awoke MA, Ayana TM, Azadnajafabad S, Azami H, Azangou-Khyavy M, Azari Jafari A, 
Badiye AD, Bagherieh S, Bahadory S, Baig AA, Baker JL, Banach M, Barrow A, 
Berhie AY, Besharat S, Bhagat DS, Bhagavathula AS, Bhala N, Bhattacharyya K, 
Bhojaraja VS, Bibi S, Bijani A, Biondi A, Bjørge T, Bodicha BBA, Braithwaite D, 
Brenner H, Calina D, Cao C, Cao Y, Carreras G, Carvalho F, Cerin E, Chakinala 
RC, Cho WCS, Chu DT, Conde J, Costa VM, Cruz-Martins N, Dadras O, Dai X, Dandona 
L, Dandona R, Danielewicz A, Demeke FM, Demissie GD, Desai R, Dhamnetiya D, 
Dianatinasab M, Diaz D, Didehdar M, Doaei S, Doan LP, Dodangeh M, Eghbalian F, 
Ejeta DD, Ekholuenetale M, Ekundayo TC, El Sayed I, Elhadi M, Enyew DB, Eyayu T, 
Ezzeddini R, Fakhradiyev IR, Farooque U, Farrokhpour H, Farzadfar F, Fatehizadeh 
A, Fattahi H, Fattahi N, Fereidoonnezhad M, Fernandes E, Fetensa G, Filip I, 
Fischer F, Foroutan M, Gaal PA, Gad MM, Gallus S, Garg T, Getachew T, Ghamari 
SH, Ghashghaee A, Ghith N, Gholamalizadeh M, Gholizadeh Navashenaq J, Gizaw AT, 
Glasbey JC, Golechha M, Goleij P, Gonfa KB, Gorini G, Guha A, Gupta S, Gupta VB, 
Gupta VK, Haddadi R, Hafezi-Nejad N, Haj-Mirzaian A, Halwani R, Haque S, Hariri 
S, Hasaballah AI, Hassanipour S, Hay SI, Herteliu C, Holla R, Hosseini MS, 
Hosseinzadeh M, Hostiuc M, Househ M, Huang J, Humayun A, Iavicoli I, Ilesanmi 
OS, Ilic IM, Ilic MD, Islami F, Iwagami M, Jahani MA, Jakovljevic M, Javaheri T, 
Jayawardena R, Jebai R, Jha RP, Joo T, Joseph N, Joukar F, Jozwiak JJ, Kabir A, 
Kalhor R, Kamath A, Kapoor N, Karaye IM, Karimi A, Kauppila JH, Kazemi A, 
Keykhaei M, Khader YS, Khajuria H, Khalilov R, Khanali J, Khayamzadeh M, 
Khodadost M, Kim H, Kim MS, Kisa A, Kisa S, Kolahi AA, Koohestani HR, Kopec JA, 
Koteeswaran R, Koyanagi A, Krishnamoorthy Y, Kumar GA, Kumar M, Kumar V, La 
Vecchia C, Lami FH, Landires I, Ledda C, Lee SW, Lee WC, Lee YY, Leong E, Li B, 
Lim SS, Lobo SW, Loureiro JA, Lunevicius R, Madadizadeh F, Mahmoodpoor A, Majeed 
A, Malekpour MR, Malekzadeh R, Malik AA, Mansour-Ghanaei F, Mantovani LG, 
Martorell M, Masoudi S, Mathur P, Meena JK, Mehrabi Nasab E, Mendoza W, Mentis 
AA, Mestrovic T, Miao Jonasson J, Miazgowski B, Miazgowski T, Mijena GFW, 
Mirmoeeni S, Mirza-Aghazadeh-Attari M, Mirzaei H, Misra S, Mohammad KA, 
Mohammadi E, Mohammadi S, Mohammadi SM, Mohammadian-Hafshejani A, Mohammed S, 
Mohammed TA, Moka N, Mokdad AH, Mokhtari Z, Molokhia M, Momtazmanesh S, Monasta 
L, Moradi G, Moradzadeh R, Moraga P, Morgado-da-Costa J, Mubarik S, Mulita F, 
Naghavi M, Naimzada MD, Nam HS, Natto ZS, Nayak BP, Nazari J, 
Nazemalhosseini-Mojarad E, Negoi I, Nguyen CT, Nguyen SH, Noor NM, Noori M, 
Noori SMA, Nuñez-Samudio V, Nzoputam CI, Oancea B, Odukoya OO, Oguntade AS, 
Okati-Aliabad H, Olagunju AT, Olagunju TO, Ong S, Ostroff SM, Padron-Monedero A, 
Pakzad R, Pana A, Pandey A, Pashazadeh Kan F, Patel UK, Paudel U, Pereira RB, 
Perumalsamy N, Pestell RG, Piracha ZZ, Pollok RCG, Pourshams A, Pourtaheri N, 
Prashant A, Rabiee M, Rabiee N, Radfar A, Rafiei S, Rahman M, Rahmani AM, 
Rahmanian V, Rajai N, Rajesh A, Ramezani-Doroh V, Ramezanzadeh K, Ranabhat K, 
Rashedi S, Rashidi A, Rashidi M, Rashidi MM, Rastegar M, Rawaf DL, Rawaf S, 
Rawassizadeh R, Razeghinia MS, Renzaho AMN, Rezaei N, Rezaei N, Rezaei S, 
Rezaeian M, Rezazadeh-Khadem S, Roshandel G, Saber-Ayad MM, Saberzadeh-Ardestani 
B, Saddik B, Sadeghi H, Saeed U, Sahebazzamani M, Sahebkar A, Salek Farrokhi A, 
Salimi A, Salimzadeh H, Samadi P, Samaei M, Samy AM, Sanabria J, 
Santric-Milicevic MM, Saqib MAN, Sarveazad A, Sathian B, Satpathy M, Schneider 
IJC, Šekerija M, Sepanlou SG, Seylani A, Sha F, Shafiee SM, Shaghaghi Z, Shahabi 
S, Shaker E, Sharifian M, Sharifi-Rad J, Sheikhbahaei S, Shetty JK, Shirkoohi R, 
Shobeiri P, Siddappa Malleshappa SK, Silva DAS, Silva Julian G, Singh AD, Singh 
JA, Siraj MS, Sivandzadeh GR, Skryabin VY, Skryabina AA, Socea B, Solmi M, 
Soltani-Zangbar MS, Song S, Szerencsés V, Szócska M, Tabarés-Seisdedos R, 
Tabibian E, Taheri M, TaheriAbkenar Y, Taherkhani A, Talaat IM, Tan KK, Tbakhi 
A, Tesfaye B, Tiyuri A, Tollosa DN, Touvier M, Tran BX, Tusa BS, Ullah I, Ullah 
S, Vacante M, Valadan Tahbaz S, Veroux M, Vo B, Vos T, Wang C, Westerman R, 
Woldemariam M, Yahyazadeh Jabbari SH, Yang L, Yazdanpanah F, Yu C, Yuce D, 
Yunusa I, Zadnik V, Zahir M, Zare I, Zhang ZJ, Zoladl M.

Erratum in
    Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2022 Aug;7(8):704.

Comment in
    Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2022 Jul;7(7):588-590.

BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer is the third leading cause of cancer deaths 
worldwide. Given the recent increasing trends in colorectal cancer incidence 
globally, up-to-date information on the colorectal cancer burden could guide 
screening, early detection, and treatment strategies, and help effectively 
allocate resources. We examined the temporal patterns of the global, regional, 
and national burden of colorectal cancer and its risk factors in 204 countries 
and territories across the past three decades.
METHODS: Estimates of incidence, mortality, and disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) for colorectal cancer were generated as a part of the Global Burden of 
Diseases, Injuries and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2019 by age, sex, and 
geographical location for the period 1990-2019. Mortality estimates were 
produced using the cause of death ensemble model. We also calculated DALYs 
attributable to risk factors that had evidence of causation with colorectal 
cancer.
FINDINGS: Globally, between 1990 and 2019, colorectal cancer incident cases more 
than doubled, from 842 098 (95% uncertainty interval [UI] 810 408-868 574) to 
2·17 million (2·00-2·34), and deaths increased from 518 126 (493 682-537 877) to 
1·09 million (1·02-1·15). The global age-standardised incidence rate increased 
from 22·2 (95% UI 21·3-23·0) per 100 000 to 26·7 (24·6-28·9) per 100 000, 
whereas the age-standardised mortality rate decreased from 14·3 (13·5-14·9) per 
100 000 to 13·7 (12·6-14·5) per 100 000 and the age-standardised DALY rate 
decreased from 308·5 (294·7-320·7) per 100 000 to 295·5 (275·2-313·0) per 
100 000 from 1990 through 2019. Taiwan (province of China; 62·0 [48·9-80·0] per 
100 000), Monaco (60·7 [48·5-73·6] per 100 000), and Andorra (56·6 [42·8-71·9] 
per 100 000) had the highest age-standardised incidence rates, while Greenland 
(31·4 [26·0-37·1] per 100 000), Brunei (30·3 [26·6-34·1] per 100 000), and 
Hungary (28·6 [23·6-34·0] per 100 000) had the highest age-standardised 
mortality rates. From 1990 through 2019, a substantial rise in incidence rates 
was observed in younger adults (age <50 years), particularly in high 
Socio-demographic Index (SDI) countries. Globally, a diet low in milk (15·6%), 
smoking (13·3%), a diet low in calcium (12·9%), and alcohol use (9·9%) were the 
main contributors to colorectal cancer DALYs in 2019.
INTERPRETATION: The increase in incidence rates in people younger than 50 years 
requires vigilance from researchers, clinicians, and policy makers and a 
possible reconsideration of screening guidelines. The fast-rising burden in low 
SDI and middle SDI countries in Asia and Africa calls for colorectal cancer 
prevention approaches, greater awareness, and cost-effective screening and 
therapeutic options in these regions.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-1253(22)00044-9
PMCID: PMC9192760
PMID: 35397795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests R Ancuceanu reports 
consulting fees from AbbVie; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speaker's bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from AbbVie, 
Sandoz, and B Braun; all outside the submitted work. M Ausloos reports grants 
from the Romanian National Authority for Scientific Research and Innovation, 
CNDS-UEFISCDI, project number PN-III-P4-ID-PCCF-2016-0084 “Understanding and 
modelling time-space patterns of psychology-related inequalities and 
polarization” (October, 2018, to September, 2022), outside the submitted work. J 
Conde reports grants from the European Research Council Starting Grant 
(ERC-StG-2019-848325); patents planned, issued or pending for functionalised 
nanoparticles and compositions for cancer treatment and methods (US Application 
No. 62/334538), and TRPV2 Antagonists WO Application No. PCT/PT2018/050035; all 
outside the submitted work. I Fillip reports consulting fees from Avicenna 
Medical and Clinical Research Institute, outside the submitted work. N Ghith 
reports grants from Novo Nordisk Foundation as salary payment (NNF16OC0021856), 
outside the submitted work. A Guha reports grants from the American Heart 
Association as the Strategically Focused Research Network Grant in Disparities 
in Cardio-Oncology (#847740 and #863620), outside the submitted work. C Herteliu 
and A Pana report grants or contracts from Romanian National Authority for 
Scientific Research and Innovation, CNDS-UEFISCDI, project number 
PN-III-P4-ID-PCCF-2016-0084 (October, 2018, to September, 2022) “Understanding 
and modelling time-space patterns of psychology-related inequalities and 
polarization” and Project number PN-III-P2-2·1-SOL-2020-2-0351 (June to October, 
2020) “Approaches within public health management in the context of COVID-19 
pandemic”, all outside the submitted work. C Herteliu reports grants from the 
Ministry of Labour and Social Justice, Romania, project number 30/PSCD/2018, 
“Agenda for skills Romania 2020–2025;” outside the submitted work. J Jozwiak 
reports payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speaker's bureaus, 
manuscript writing, or educational events from Teva, Amgen, Synexus, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Alab Laboratories, and Zentiva as personal fees, all outside the 
submitted work. J H Kauppila reports grants from the Sigrid Juselius Foundation 
and Finnish Cancer Foundation as research grants paid to their institutions; all 
outside the submitted work. J A Loureiro reports support for the present 
manuscript from Fundação para a Ciência e Técnologia (FCT) as a salary payment 
under the Scientific Employment Stimulus (CEECINST/00049/2018) and from 
FCT/MCTES (Ministério da Ciência, Tecnologia e Ensino Superior) (PIDDAC) as Base 
Funding (UIDB/00511/2020 of LEPABE). A-F A Mentis reports grants or contracts 
from ELIDEK (Hellenic Foundation for Research and Innovation, MIMS-860) and 
EPANEK - MilkSafe (Τ2ΕΔΚ-02222), all outside the submitted manuscript. O O 
Odukoya reports support for the present manuscript from the Fogarty 
International Center of the National Institutes of Health under the award number 
K43TW010704. The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does 
not necessarily represent the official views of the National Institutes of 
Health. A Radfar reports consulting fees from Avicenna Medical and Clinical 
Research Institute; leadership or fiduciary role in other board, society, 
committee, or advocacy group, paid or unpaid with MEDICHEM as a board member; 
all outside the submitted work. M Šekerija reports payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speaker's bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational 
events from Roche and Johnson & Johnson, outside the submitted work. D A S Silva 
reports support for the present manuscript in part from the Coordenação de 
Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior—Brazil (CAPES)—Finance Code 001 and 
in part by Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico, Brazil 
(CNPq - 302028/2018-8), as payments made to their institution. J A Singh reports 
consulting fees from Crealta/Horizon, Medisys, Fidia, Two labs, Adept Field 
Solutions, Clinical Care Options, ClearView Healthcare Partners, Putnam 
Associates, Focus Forward, Navigant Consulting, Spherix, MedIQ, UBM, Trio 
Health, Medscape, WebMD, and Practice Point Communications; and the National 
Institutes of Health and the American College of Rheumatology; payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or 
educational events from Simply Speaking; support for attending meetings or 
travel, or both from OMERACT, an international organisation that develops 
measures for clinical trials and receives arm's length funding from 12 
pharmaceutical companies, when traveling to OMERACT meetings; participation on a 
data safety monitoring board or advisory board as a member of the FDA Arthritis 
Advisory Committee; leadership or fiduciary role in other board, society, 
committee or advocacy group, paid or unpaid, with OMERACT as a member of the 
steering committee, with the Veterans Affairs Rheumatology Field Advisory 
Committee as a member, and with the UAB Cochrane Musculoskeletal Group Satellite 
Center on Network Meta-analysis as a director and editor; stock or stock options 
in TPT Global Tech, Vaxart Pharmaceuticals and Charlotte's Web Holdings, and 
previously owned stock options in Amarin, Viking, and Moderna Pharmaceuticals; 
all outside the submitted work. M Solmi reports payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speaker's bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational 
events from Lundbeck; and participation on a data safety monitoring board or 
advisory board with Angelini; all outside the submitted work. T Vos reports 
support for the present manuscript from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation as 
payment to their institution. All other authors declare no competing interests.


764. Trends Biochem Sci. 2022 Oct;47(10):851-864. doi:
10.1016/j.tibs.2022.03.010.  Epub 2022 Apr 6.

Control of chloroplast degradation and cell death in response to stress.

Woodson JD(1).

Author information:
(1)The School of Plant Sciences, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721, USA. 
Electronic address: jessewoodson@email.arizona.edu.

Chloroplasts are the sites of photosynthesis in plants and algae and, by 
extension, are essential for most life on Earth. Their maintenance is costly and 
complex due to the inherent photo-oxidative damage incurred by photosynthetic 
chemistry. Chloroplast degradation and cell death are mechanisms by which plants 
acclimate to such stress and serve a dual purpose: protecting cells and organs 
by removing reactive oxygen species-producing chloroplasts and redistributing 
nutrients to other tissues. Here I review recent progress in understanding the 
molecular mechanisms initiating and facilitating such degradation and show these 
are complex processes involving multiple pathways. Due to the links to 
photosynthesis and nitrogen metabolism, there is great potential to manipulate 
these pathways to increase crop yield and quality under stressful environments.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tibs.2022.03.010
PMID: 35397925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The author has no 
interests to declare.


765. Value Health. 2022 Aug;25(8):1298-1306. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2022.02.003.
Epub  2022 Apr 6.

A Systematic Review of Economic Evaluations of COVID-19 Interventions: 
Considerations of Non-Health Impacts and Distributional Issues.

Podolsky MI(1), Present I(1), Neumann PJ(2), Kim DD(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA; 
Department of Medicine, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA; 
Department of Medicine, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA. 
Electronic address: dkim3@tuftsmedicalcenter.org.

OBJECTIVES: This study aims to conduct a systematic review of economic 
evaluations of COVID-19 interventions and to examine whether and how these 
studies incorporate non-health impacts and distributional concerns.
METHODS: We searched the National Institutes of Health's COVID-19 Portfolio as 
of May 20, 2021, and supplemented our search with additional sources. We 
included original articles, including preprints, evaluating both the health and 
economic effects of a COVID-19-related intervention. Using a pre-specified data 
collection form, 2 reviewers independently screened, reviewed, and extracted 
information about the study characteristics, intervention types, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). We used an Impact Inventory to catalog the 
types of non-health impacts considered.
RESULTS: We included 70 articles, almost half of which were preprints. Most 
articles (56%) included at least one non-health impact, but fewer (21%) 
incorporated non-economic consequences. Few articles (17%) examined subgroups of 
interest. After excluding negative ICERs, the median ICER for the entire sample 
(n = 243 ratios) was $67,000/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) (interquartile 
range [IQR] $9000-$893,000/QALY). Interventions including a pharmaceutical 
component yielded a median ICER of $93,000/QALY (IQR $4000-$7,809,000/QALY), 
whereas interventions including a non-pharmaceutical component were slightly 
more cost-effective overall with a median ICER of $81,000/QALY (IQR 
$12,000-$1,034,000/QALY). Interventions reported to be highly cost-effective 
were treatment, public information campaigns, quarantining identified 
contacts/cases, canceling public events, and social distancing.
CONCLUSIONS: Our review highlights the lack of consideration of non-health and 
distributional impacts among COVID-19-related economic evaluations. Accounting 
for non-health impacts and distributional effects is essential for comprehensive 
assessment of interventions' value and imperative for generating 
cost-effectiveness evidence for both current and future pandemics.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2022.02.003
PMCID: PMC8986127
PMID: 35398012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. J Affect Disord. 2022 Jul 1;308:607-615. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2022.04.004.
Epub  2022 Apr 7.

Internet- and mobile-based intervention for depression in adults with chronic 
back pain: A health economic evaluation.

Paganini S(1), Terhorst Y(2), Sander LB(3), Lin J(4), Schlicker S(5), Ebert 
DD(6), Berking M(5), Riper H(7), Baumeister H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sport Psychology, Institute of Sports and Sport Science, 
University of Freiburg, Germany. Electronic address: 
sarah.paganini@sport.uni-freiburg.de.
(2)Department of Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, Institute of Psychology 
and Education, Ulm University, Germany.
(3)Department of Rehabilitation Psychology and Psychotherapy, Institute of 
Psychology, University of Freiburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy Medical Center, Faculty of 
Medicine, Freiburg, Germany.
(5)Department of Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, Friedrich-Alexander 
University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Germany.
(6)Department of Psychology and Digital Mental Health Care, Technical University 
of Munich, Germany.
(7)Department of Clinical, Neuro and Developmental Psychology, VU University 
Amsterdam, Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Depression and comorbid chronic back pain (CBP) lead to high 
personal and economic burden. Internet- and mobile-based interventions (IMI) 
might be a cost-effective adjunct to established interventions.
METHODS: A health economic evaluation was embedded into an observer-blinded, 
multicenter RCT (societal and health care perspective). We randomly assigned 
participants (≥18 years) with CBP and diagnosed depression from 82 orthopedic 
clinics across Germany to intervention (IG + treatment as usual [TAU]) or TAU 
control group (CG). The IG received a guided IMI. Primary outcomes were 
depression response and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) at 6-months 
follow-up. Multiple imputation was used to address missing data. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness/cost-utility ratios (ICER/ICUR) and the probability of being 
cost-effective at different willingness-to-pay thresholds were calculated. 
Statistical uncertainty was estimated using bootstrapping techniques 
(N = 10,000).
RESULTS: Between October 2015 and July 2017 210 participants were randomly 
assigned to IG (n = 105) and CG (n = 105). Depression response did not differ 
significantly between groups. QALYs were significantly higher in the IG compared 
to the CG. Taking the societal perspective and assuming a commonly used 
willingness-to-pay of €34,000/QALY, the intervention's likelihood of being 
cost-effective was 64%.
LIMITATIONS: The main limitation is that the study was powered to detect 
clinical but not health economic differences between groups.
CONCLUSION: The IMI is considered cost-effective (vs. CG) for individuals with 
depression and CBP (societal perspective). These results are promising when 
considering the high individual and economic burden of this patient group. 
Further research is needed to adequately inform political decision makers before 
implementation into routine care.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2022.04.004
PMID: 35398397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. J Environ Manage. 2022 Jul 1;313:114980. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2022.114980.
 Epub 2022 Apr 7.

Natural attenuation of sulfometuron-methyl in seawater: Kinetics, intermediates, 
toxicity change and ecological risk assessment.

Shao S(1), Wu J(2), Meng F(3), Liu J(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Marine Environment and Ecology, Ministry of Education, 
Ocean University of China, Qingdao, Shandong Province, PR China; College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Ocean University of China, Shandong 
Province, Qingdao, PR China.
(2)National Marine Hazard Mitigation Service, Ministry of Natural Resource of 
the People's Republic of China, Beijing, 100194, PR China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Marine Environment and Ecology, Ministry of Education, 
Ocean University of China, Qingdao, Shandong Province, PR China; College of 
Environmental Science and Engineering, Ocean University of China, Shandong 
Province, Qingdao, PR China. Electronic address: mengfanping@ouc.edu.cn.

This research aims to evaluate the environmental feasibility of 
sulfometuron-methyl (SM) as a growth inhibitor for restricting the growth of 
Spartina alterniflora. To achieve this purpose, the natural attenuation 
characteristics, ecological risk, degradation pathway, and comprehensive 
toxicity changes of SM in seawater were investigated under the simulated marine 
environmental conditions of Jiaozhou Bay, China. The natural attenuation of SM 
in seawater followed first-order reaction kinetics with a rate constant (K) of 
0.0694 d-1 and a half-life of 9.99 days. When photolysis, hydrolysis, and 
biodegradation pathways act alone, the rate constants K of SM were 0.0167, 
0.0143, and 0.0099 d-1 respectively, indicating that their contributions to the 
total removal of SM decreased in turn. The calculation results of risk quotient 
(RQ) showed that the seawater containing 10 mg/L of SM demonstrated a very high 
risk to marine diatom Skeletonema costatum before and after 21 days of 
attenuation with RQ values of 24.46 and 6.32, respectively, however, the risk to 
other marine organisms (fish, crustaceans, and bivalves) decreased from moderate 
(RQ < 1) to low (RQ < 0.01). Four attenuation products of SM were identified and 
two degradation pathways of SM in seawater were proposed. Based on the rate of 
inhibition of bioluminescence, SM in seawater was not harmful to Photobacterium 
phosphoreum T3, whereas the toxicity of seawater containing SM increased with 
the extension of attenuation time, suggesting the formation of intermediate 
products with high aquatic toxicity. According to the toxicity values predicted 
by ECOSAR, the toxicity of one identified attenuation product was higher than 
that of SM. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on the 
attenuation characteristics and toxicity changes of SM in seawater. The results 
indicated that the toxicity of both SM and its degradation products to 
non-target marine organisms should be considered in evaluating the feasibility 
of SM in controlling coastal Spartina alterniflora.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2022.114980
PMID: 35398639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Am J Otolaryngol. 2022 May-Jun;43(3):103440. doi:
10.1016/j.amjoto.2022.103440.  Epub 2022 Apr 5.

Survival, functional, and quality of life outcomes between total glossectomy 
with and without total laryngectomy: A narrative review.

Burnham AJ(1), Ottenstein L(2), Boyce BJ(2), Kaka AS(2), El-Deiry MW(2), Baddour 
HM(2), Patel MR(2), Gross JH(2), Schmitt NC(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery, Emory University School 
of Medicine, United States of America.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery, Emory University School 
of Medicine, United States of America; The Winship Cancer Institute at Emory 
University, United States of America.
(3)Department of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery, Emory University School 
of Medicine, United States of America; The Winship Cancer Institute at Emory 
University, United States of America. Electronic address: 
nicole.cherie.schmitt@emory.edu.

BACKGROUND: A total glossectomy (TG) may be required for advanced tongue tumors. 
TG with total laryngectomy (TGL) may be indicated in some cases with tumor 
extension into the larynx or high risk of aspiration. Total glossectomy with 
laryngeal preservation (TGLP) may preserve phonation ability relative to TGL, 
yet TGLP may increase the risk of aspiration.
METHODS: For this narrative review, we performed a comprehensive literature 
search of studies relevant to TG and TGL. Clinical studies investigating 
survival, functional outcomes, and quality of life in following TGLP or TGL were 
of particular interest.
RESULTS: Few studies in the literature directly compare survival, functional, 
and quality of life (QOL) outcomes between TGLP and TGL. TGLP is associated with 
intelligible speech. However, studies investigating gastrostomy tube dependence 
following TGLP versus TGL have generated conflicting results.
CONCLUSION: Further research on functional and QOL outcomes in patients 
undergoing TGL or TGLP is needed.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjoto.2022.103440
PMID: 35398743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Ann Palliat Med. 2022 Jul;11(7):2291-2301. doi: 10.21037/apm-21-2824. Epub
2022  Apr 6.

Survival analysis of 15,402 pneumoconiosis cases in Jiangsu Province of China 
from 1961 to 2019.

Song X(1), Shen H(1), Zhou L(2), Qian G(1), Shi J(1), Xu S(1), Fei X(1), Zhu 
B(2), Han L(2).

Author information:
(1)Kunshan Center for Disease Prevention and Control, Suzhou, China.
(2)Institute of Occupational Disease Prevention, Jiangsu Provincial Center for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Nanjing, China.

BACKGROUND: Pneumoconiosis has been reported as one of the major global burdens 
of occupational health-related diseases. The global prevalence had increased 
since 1990. Prevention and treatment of pneumoconiosis in the project of 
occupational health have been a priority of the action plan of Healthy China 
2030.
METHODS: A life table was used to explore the survival and fatality rate of 
pneumoconiosis. Using Cox proportional hazards regression model, the factors of 
survival time were investigated.
RESULTS: A total of 15,402 cases had several species of pneumoconiosis, 
including silicosis, coal worker pneumoconiosis and welder pneumoconiosis that 
accounted for 68.49%, 19.41% and 3.84% of total pneumoconiosis, respectively. 
Eighty percent of cases were initially diagnosed at stage I, 15.5% at stage II, 
and 4.5% at stage III. The overall average survival time was determined as 
14.74±9.57 years, the life expectancy reached 34.324 years in total, and the 
total mortality of patients suffering from pneumoconiosis was 19.89%. The 
average dust exposure period, average survival time and life expectancy 
progressively decreased with the stage upgrade, whereas the age of onset and 
mortality rate tended to increase. Dust exposure years, initially diagnosed at 
stage II or stage III, stage I upgrade to stage II, stage I upgrade to stage III 
and low economic level were found as important risk factors for the survival of 
patients suffering from pneumoconiosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Stage II and stage III of pneumoconiosis may have a direct effect 
on the survival time of patients suffering from pneumoconiosis. The prevention 
and delay of the progression of pneumoconiosis are critical to prolonging the 
survival time of cases.

DOI: 10.21037/apm-21-2824
PMID: 35400160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2022 Sep;22(6):913-918. doi: 
10.1080/14737167.2022.2064847. Epub 2022 May 5.

Use of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for decision-making 
policies-what is the problem? A perspective paper.

Brougham M(1)(2), Schlander M(3)(4), Telser H(5)(6), Bakshi S(7), Sola-Morales 
O(8).

Author information:
(1)Certara, Evidence and Access, Montreal, Canada.
(2)Brougham Consulting Inc, Ottawa, Canada.
(3)Institute for Innovation & Valuation in Health Care (InnoValHC), Wiesbaden, 
Germany.
(4)Division of Health Economics, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) & Alfred 
Weber Institute, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.
(5)Polynomics, Olten, Switzerland.
(6)Center for Health, Policy and Economics, University of Lucerne, Lucerne, 
Switzerland.
(7)Analytica Laser, A Certara Company, London, UK.
(8)HiTT, Barcelona, Spain.

Erratum in
    Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2022 Jul 21;:1.

INTRODUCTION: Drug reimbursement decisions that spark public controversy are 
potential signals that processes used to reach such decisions do not adequately 
reflect society's goals. Such controversial decisions appear to be a 
characteristic of Quality-Adjusted Life Year (QALY)-based Incremental Cost 
Effectiveness Ratio (ICER)-dominated decision-making systems. QALY-based 
ICER-heavy systems have several known weaknesses that lead to individual and 
societal preferences being either ignored or considered in an unsystematic and 
inconsistent manner.
AREAS COVERED: We reprise some of the key inadequacies of QALY-based ICER 
analyses and suggest that there are other means including multicriteria decision 
analysis (MCDA) and cost-benefit analysis based on willingness to pay (WTP) 
measures by which to partially mitigate these weaknesses.
EXPERT OPINION: For long, the inadequacies of QALY-based ICER-heavy 
decision-making systems have been rationalized with the answer: 'while the 
method is a second best, it is the best we currently have.' In light of the 
equally well-developed and widely utilized alternatives available, this 
resistance to improve assessment processes should not be accepted by policy 
makers. Health technology assessment bodies should consider and, with 
appropriate modifications, adopt these alternatives as they have the potential 
to result in more comprehensive, systematic, and accountable decision-making.

DOI: 10.1080/14737167.2022.2064847
PMID: 35400272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Curr Drug Deliv. 2023;20(3):237-249. doi: 10.2174/1567201819666220408094520.

Current Novel Drug Deliveries for Oral Cancer: A Chronotherapeutic Approach.

Sutar KP(1), Shirkoli NS(2), Sutar PS(3), Kurangi BK(1), Dandagi PM(1), 
Masareddy R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, KLE College of Pharmacy, KLE Academy of Higher 
Education and Research, Nehru Nagar, Belagavi 590010, Karnataka, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Quality Assurance, KLE College of Pharmacy, KLE 
Academy of Higher Education and Research, Nehru Nagar, Belagavi 590010, 
Karnataka, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy, Maratha Mandal's College of Pharmacy, M M 
Extension, Belagavi 590010, Karnataka, India.

Oral squamous cell carcinoma is a malignant disease that is causing considerable 
mortality worldwide. Conventional treatment approaches, like surgery, cause 
destructive alterations in facial appearance and oral function impairments 
associated with psychological and social functioning. Chemotherapy exhibits low 
bioaccessibility of the anticancer drugs, multiple drug resistance, higher dose 
necessities, which elevate toxicities to the normal cells, low therapeutic 
index, and non-specific targeting. Radiation therapies significantly affect the 
well-being of the patient and impair the quality of life. Therefore, 
chemotherapeutics are developed that can either actively or passively target the 
carcinomas, reduce the adverse side effect, and improve therapeutic efficacy. 
Innovations in novel drug delivery systems deliver the drugs to the desired site 
of action with better treatment approaches with reduced toxicities to the normal 
cells and improve the health and survival rate of the patient. Cancer 
chronotherapy enhances the treatment proficiency by administration of the drugs 
at the best time, considering biological timings to improve the treatment 
profiles. Chronotherapy provides benefits to the current anticancer therapies, 
with minimum adverse effects to the healthy cells. This review discusses the 
risk factors for oral carcinomas, targeted therapy by nanocarriers, 
nanotechnology approaches, the role of circadian rhythm in the management of 
oral cancer, and advances in controlled drug delivery.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1567201819666220408094520
PMID: 35400343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Vet World. 2022 Feb;15(2):455-464. doi: 10.14202/vetworld.2022.455-464. Epub
 2022 Feb 25.

Seroprevalence of sheeppox and goatpox virus in Asia and African continent: A 
systematic review and meta-analysis (Scientometrics).

Suresh KP(1), Bhavya AP(1), Shivamallu C(2), Achar RR(3), Silina E(4), Stupin 
V(5), Kollur SP(6), Shome BR(1), Patil SS(1).

Author information:
(1)ICAR-National Institute of Veterinary Epidemiology and Disease Informatics 
(NIVEDI), Yelahanka, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, School of Life Sciences, JSS 
Academy of Higher Education and Research, Mysore, Karnataka, India.
(3)Division of Biochemistry, School of Life Sciences, JSS Academy of Higher 
Education and Research, Mysuru, India.
(4)Department of Human Pathology, I.M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical 
University (Sechenov University), Moscow, Russia.
(5)Department of Hospital Surgery, N.I. Pirogov Russian National Research 
Medical University (RNRMU), Moscow, Russia.
(6)Department of Sciences, Amrita School of Arts and Sciences, Amrita Vishwa 
Vidyapeetham, Mysuru, India.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Two endemic capripox infectious diseases, sheeppox (SP) and 
goatpox (GP) are common in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East. Sheep and goats, 
in general, are considered current assets of small and marginal farmers and have 
significant economic value in terms of meat, wool, and skin/hide production. 
Sheep and goat populations in India total 148.88 million and 74.26 million, 
respectively. Capripox caused US$ 2.3 million (Indian Rupee [INR] 105 million) 
in economic damages in Maharashtra (India) alone, and it took over 6 years for a 
flock to recover from the outbreak. The projected yearly loss at the national 
level is US$ 27.47 million (INR 1250 million). As a result, Capripox diseases 
put small and marginal farmers under much financial strain. The present study 
estimates the seroprevalence of SP and GP diseases in the Asian and African 
continents using systematic review and meta-analysis. The results of the study 
will help researchers and policymakers to understand the spatial and temporal 
distribution of the disease and its burden. In addition, the results are also 
helpful to design and implement location-specific prevention and eradication 
measures against these diseases.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and 
Meta-Analysis guidelines of Cochran collaborations were used for systematic 
review and subsequently meta-analysis were used. The literature was collected 
from various databases. Initial search string resulted in more than nine 
thousand articles for the period 2000 to 2020 using the different combinations 
of keywords and Boolean operators (or not) asterisk* and quotation marks. Out of 
9398 papers, 80 studies were chosen for complete test reviews and quality bias 
evaluation using the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Finally, 21 articles were 
used for the meta-analysis. The statistical study employed fixed effects and 
random effects models using R.
RESULTS: Seroprevalence of SP and GP was calculated using studies with a 
cumulative sample size of 4352, out of which sheep and goats' samples together 
contribute 48%, followed by sheep (32%) and goat (21%). The result of the 
meta-regression revealed that detection techniques had a significant impact on 
the overall effect size at 5% level (Qm=14.12). Subgroup analysis of polymerase 
chain reaction (PCR) test with samples was further grouped into two categories 
based on the median, and it revealed that 62% of samples used PCR as a detecting 
test followed by group-II.
CONCLUSION: From the study, it is concluded that SP and GP diseases are highly 
prevalent; hence, effective vaccines, proper education to farmers through 
extension activity, and transboundary disease movement restriction are necessary 
for the control and eradication of the disease.

Copyright: © Suresh, et al.

DOI: 10.14202/vetworld.2022.455-464
PMCID: PMC8980399
PMID: 35400949

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


773. Front Neurorobot. 2022 Mar 23;16:836184. doi: 10.3389/fnbot.2022.836184. 
eCollection 2022.

A Portable Wearable Inertial System for Rehabilitation Monitoring and Evaluation 
of Patients With Total Knee Replacement.

Lou N(1), Diao Y(2)(3)(4), Chen Q(2)(4), Ning Y(2)(4), Li G(1), Liang 
S(2)(3)(4), Li G(2)(4), Zhao G(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital, 
Shenzhen, China.
(2)CAS Key Laboratory of Human-Machine Intelligence-Synergy Systems, Research 
Center for Neural Engineering, Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, China.
(3)Shenzhen College of Advanced Technology, University of Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Shenzhen, China.
(4)Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Joint Laboratory of Human-Machine 
Intelligence-Synergy Systems, Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, China.

Knee osteoarthritis is a degenerative disease, which greatly affects the daily 
life of patients. Total knee replacement (TKR) is the most common method to 
treat knee joint disorders and relieve knee pain. Postoperative rehabilitation 
exercise is the key to restore knee joint function. However, there is a lack of 
a portable equipment for monitoring knee joint activity and a systematic 
assessment scheme. We have developed a portable rehabilitation monitoring and 
evaluation system based on the wearable inertial unit to estimate the knee range 
of motion (ROM). Ten TKR patients and ten healthy adults are recruited for the 
experiment, then the system performance is verified by professional 
rehabilitation equipment Baltimore Therapeutic Equipment (BTE) Primus RS. The 
average absolute difference between the knee ROM and BTE Primus RS of healthy 
subjects and patients ranges from 0.16° to 4.94°. In addition, the knee ROM of 
flexion-extension and gait activity between healthy subjects and patients showed 
significant differences. The proposed system is reliable and effective in 
monitoring and evaluating the rehabilitation progress of patients. The system 
proposed in this work is expected to be used for long-term effective supervision 
of patients in clinical and dwelling environments.

Copyright © 2022 Lou, Diao, Chen, Ning, Li, Liang, Li and Zhao.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbot.2022.836184
PMCID: PMC8983823
PMID: 35401138

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


774. Front Pharmacol. 2022 Mar 23;13:852941. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2022.852941. 
eCollection 2022.

The Botanical Drug PBI-05204, a Supercritical CO(2) Extract of Nerium Oleander, 
Is Synergistic With Radiotherapy in Models of Human Glioblastoma.

Colapietro A(1), Yang P(2), Rossetti A(1), Mancini A(1), Vitale F(3), 
Chakraborty S(2), Martellucci S(4)(5), Marampon F(6), Mattei V(4), Gravina 
GL(1)(7), Iorio R(8), Newman RA(9), Festuccia C(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Radiobiology, Department of Biotechnological and Applied 
Clinical Sciences, University of L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.
(2)Department of Palliative, Rehabilitation and Integrative Medicine, The 
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, United States.
(3)Laboratory of Neurophysiology, Department of Biotechnological and Applied 
Clinical Sciences, University of L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.
(4)Biomedicine and Advanced Technologies Rieti Center, Sabina Universitas, 
Rieti, Italy.
(5)Laboratory of Experimental Medicine and Environmental Pathology, University 
Hub "Sabina Universitas", Rieti, Italy.
(6)Department of Radiological, Oncological and Pathological Sciences, Sapienza 
University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(7)Division of Radiation Oncology, Department of Biotechnological and Applied 
Clinical Sciences, University of L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.
(8)Laboratory of Biology, Department of Biotechnological and Applied Clinical 
Sciences, University of L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.
(9)Phoenix Biotechnology, Inc., San Antonio, TX, United States.

Erratum in
    Front Pharmacol. 2022 May 30;13:937601.

Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common as well as one of the most 
malignant types of brain cancer. Despite progress in development of novel 
therapies for the treatment of GBM, it remains largely incurable with a poor 
prognosis and a very low life expectancy. Recent studies have shown that 
oleandrin, a unique cardiac glycoside from Nerium oleander, as well as a defined 
extract (PBI-05204) that contains this molecule, inhibit growth of human 
glioblastoma, and modulate glioblastoma patient-derived stem cell-renewal 
properties. Here we demonstrate that PBI-05204 treatment leads to an increase in 
vitro in the sensitivity of GBM cells to radiation in which the main mechanisms 
are the transition from autophagy to apoptosis, enhanced DNA damage and reduced 
DNA repair after radiotherapy (RT) administration. The combination of PBI-05204 
with RT was associated with reduced tumor progression evidenced by both 
subcutaneous as well as orthotopic implanted GBM tumors. Collectively, these 
results reveal that PBI-05204 enhances antitumor activity of RT in 
preclinical/murine models of human GBM. Given the fact that PBI-05204 has 
already been examined in Phase I and II clinical trials for cancer patients, its 
efficacy when combined with standard-of-care radiotherapy regimens in GBM should 
be explored.

Copyright © 2022 Colapietro, Yang, Rossetti, Mancini, Vitale, Chakraborty, 
Martellucci, Marampon, Mattei, Gravina, Iorio, Newman and Festuccia.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2022.852941
PMCID: PMC8984197
PMID: 35401175

Conflict of interest statement: RN and PY are consultants for Phoenix 
Biotechnology, Inc. The remaining authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


775. Front Psychol. 2022 Mar 24;13:787591. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.787591. 
eCollection 2022.

From Self-Transcendence to Collective Transcendence: In Search of the Order of 
Hierarchies in Maslow's Transcendence.

Llanos LF(1), Martínez Verduzco L(1).

Author information:
(1)Business and Economics School, Anáhuac University, Naucalpan de Juárez, 
Mexico.

Maslow's Human Motivation extended Theory, in its late version, proposed 
transcendence as one of the highest levels, inclusive or holistic in the Human 
consciousness. Through Meaning Theory, Victor Frankl and Paul Wong suggested 
that self-transcendence is a fundamental expression of our spiritual nature and 
a distinctive concept. However, it is not clear whether at present, with an 
extensive offer of individualistic currents, transcending involves a personal 
issue or is rather a collective issue, related to community and culture. The 
objective of this research is to determine if seeking personal transcendence and 
seeking collective transcendence are two differentiable categories, and if there 
is a priority among them, which would suggest an extension of the Theory. With 
the participation of 402 business students in Mexico, and with the help of a 
structured equation model, it was determined that there is a significant 
difference between orientation toward "I transcend" and the orientation toward 
"I help others transcend." The results obtained from the selected sample 
indicate that individual transcendence and collective transcendence are 
distinguishable categories. In addition, it was found that young people prefer 
to seek a personal meaning rather than a collective one, which suggest that 
dimension of collective transcendence is prior to personal transcendence. These 
findings can be used to design job profiles for positions that require staff 
development, and it can serve as a positive pattern for life education and 
society.

Copyright © 2022 Llanos and Martínez Verduzco.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.787591
PMCID: PMC8988189
PMID: 35401301

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


776. Front Psychol. 2022 Mar 24;13:791805. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.791805. 
eCollection 2022.

The Relationships of Sleep Duration and Inconsistency With the Athletic 
Performance of Collegiate Soft Tennis Players.

Han T(1)(2), Wang W(2), Kuroda Y(3), Mizuno M(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Health Sciences, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Education, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.
(3)Department of Sport Education, Hokusho University, Ebetsu, Japan.
(4)Faculty of Education, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.
(5)Faculty of Health and Medical Care, Hachinohe Gakuin University, Hachinohe, 
Japan.

Erratum in
    Front Psychol. 2023 Jul 07;14:1237347.

We evaluated the relationships of daily sleep duration and inconsistency with 
soft tennis competitive performance among 15 healthy collegiate soft tennis 
players (13 male, 2 female, mean age = 19.7 ± 0.8 years, height = 170.8 ± 7.3 
cm, weight = 60.3 ± 5.6 kg, soft tennis experience = 8.7 ± 2.0 years). Sleep 
duration and inconsistency were determined by a 50-day sleep diary, which 
recorded sleep and wake times of sleep. Soft tennis athletic performance was 
evaluated by a service and baseline stroke accuracy test and the spider run 
test. Mean sleep duration was 7.4 ± 1.7 h. No correlation was found between 
long-term mean sleep duration and athletic performance. But inconsistency in 
sleep duration (SD of sleep duration) was inversely correlated with service 
score after controlling for soft tennis experience and sex (r = -0.56, p = 
0.046). There was no significant relationship between sleep inconsistency and 
other athletic performance. This result indicates that reducing the instability 
of sleep duration (i.e., sleep regular hours) in the long-term may have a 
positive effect on soft tennis players' service performance. Although 
participants' current mean sleep duration (7.4 h) was not as sufficient as the 
recommendation in sleep extension experiments (9-10 h), it revealed the 
importance for athletes to maintain regular sleep in daily life.

Copyright © 2022 Han, Wang, Kuroda and Mizuno.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.791805
PMCID: PMC8988183
PMID: 35401355

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


777. Front Psychol. 2022 Mar 23;13:841122. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.841122. 
eCollection 2022.

International Students' Motivation to Study Abroad: An Empirical Study Based on 
Expectancy-Value Theory and Self-Determination Theory.

Yue Y(1), Lu J(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Education, Torrens University Australia, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(2)College of Humanities and Social Sciences, Chaoyang University of Technology, 
Taichung, Taiwan.
(3)School of Education, University of Tasmania, Hobart, TAS, Australia.

Push-pull theory, consumer decision-making models and rational choice theory are 
commonly used to explain international student mobility (ISM). Despite their 
merits, the individual's motivation to study abroad is ignored. Based on two 
motivation theories-expectancy-value theory (EVT) and self-determination theory 
(SDT), this study examines whether students' intention to study abroad 
originates from the students themselves or compromises social pressure and how 
the external factors defined in push-pull theory work with these motivations to 
affect their decision-making. A quantitative study was conducted with a sample 
size of 736 international students in China. The findings show that the decision 
to study abroad is a highly subjective and intrinsically driven behavior in 
which realizing one's self-worth or fulfilling one's purpose of life plays the 
most significant role. Making a decision needs a "cost-benefits calculus," but 
the utility value of study abroad was positioned behind attainment value and 
identified motivation. The heterogeneity of international students' motivation 
was also differentiated by both their gender and their parents' educational 
backgrounds.

Copyright © 2022 Yue and Lu.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.841122
PMCID: PMC8984802
PMID: 35401387

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


778. SAGE Open Med Case Rep. 2022 Apr 4;10:2050313X221089119. doi: 
10.1177/2050313X221089119. eCollection 2022.

Isolated oropharyngeal abscess with hypopharyngeal extension recurring 12 years 
after initial surgical management: A case report and review of the literature.

Khoury M(1), Dong SX(1), Alsaffar H(2), Johnson-Obaseki S(2), Caulley 
L(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Undergraduate Medical Education, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, The Ottawa Hospital, 
University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Knowledge Synthesis Group, Clinical Epidemiology Program, The Ottawa Hospital 
Research Institute, Ottawa, ON, Canada.

Pharyngeal abscesses require urgent management as they have the propensity to 
cause severe and life-threatening complications. The introduction of antibiotics 
has led to a dramatic decline in the incidence of these infections. Regardless, 
abscess formation continues to be observed in the peritonsillar, parapharyngeal, 
and retropharyngeal spaces. Oropharyngeal and hypopharyngeal abscesses that 
cause airway obstruction are scarcely reported and tend to be secondary to other 
processes. Herein, we describe the case of an 83-year-old man presenting with an 
idiopathic, obstructive, oropharyngeal wall abscess, extending from the 
infratonsillar region to the hypopharynx, which recurred after initial surgical 
management 12 years prior for the same process. He required reintervention 
during both episodes for rapid reaccumulation. A detailed electronic literature 
search of PubMed and MedLine was performed for studies reporting on recurrent 
pharyngeal abscesses and their management. Results were limited to articles 
published in English from inception to August 2021. The timely management of 
pharyngeal infections acutely obstructing the airway is crucial. Physicians 
should adopt close and frequent monitoring and have a low threshold for 
reimaging should symptoms worsen or fail to improve after the initial surgical 
intervention.

© The Author(s) 2022.

DOI: 10.1177/2050313X221089119
PMCID: PMC8984837
PMID: 35401981

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


779. Front Oncol. 2022 Mar 24;12:819128. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2022.819128.
eCollection  2022.

PI3K/Akt/mTOR Pathway and Its Role in Cancer Therapeutics: Are We Making 
Headway?

Peng Y(1), Wang Y(2), Zhou C(3), Mei W(2), Zeng C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Longhua District Central Hospital, Shenzhen, China.
(2)Xianning Medical College, Hubei University of Science and Technology, 
Xianning, China.
(3)Department of Medical Laboratory, Shenzhen Longhua District Central Hospital, 
Guangdong Medical University, Shenzhen, China.

Cancer is a severe public health issue that is a leading cause of mortality 
globally. It is also an impediment to improving life expectancy worldwide. 
Furthermore, the global burden of cancer incidence and death is continuously 
growing. Current therapeutic options are insufficient for patients, and tumor 
complexity and heterogeneity necessitate customized medicine or targeted 
therapy. It is critical to identify potential cancer therapeutic targets. 
Aberrant activation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway has a significant role in 
carcinogenesis. This review summarized oncogenic PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway 
alterations in cancer and various cancer hallmarks associated with the 
PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway, such as cell proliferation, autophagy, apoptosis, 
angiogenesis, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and chemoresistance. 
Importantly, this review provided recent advances in PI3K/AKT/mTOR inhibitor 
research. Overall, an in-depth understanding of the association between the 
PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway and tumorigenesis and the development of therapies 
targeting the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway will help make clinical decisions.

Copyright © 2022 Peng, Wang, Zhou, Mei and Zeng.
