46115 Valencia, Spain.

Honeybee populations have locally and temporally declined in the last few years 
because of both biotic and abiotic factors. Among the latter, one of the most 
important reasons is infection by the microsporidia Nosema ceranae, which is the 
etiological agent of type C nosemosis. This species was first described in Asian 
honeybees (Apis cerana). Nowadays, domestic honeybees (Apis mellifera) worldwide 
are also becoming infected due to globalization. Type C nosemosis can be 
asymptomatic or can cause important damage to bees, such as changes in temporal 
polyethism, energy and oxidative stress, immunity loss, and decreased average 
life expectancy. It causes drastic reductions in workers, numbers of broods, and 
honey production, finally leading to colony loss. Common treatment is based on 
fumagillin, an antibiotic with side effects and relatively poor efficiency, 
which is banned in the European Union. Natural products, probiotics, food 
supplements, nutraceuticals, and other veterinary drugs are currently under 
study and might represent alternative treatments. Prophylaxis and management of 
affected colonies are essential to control the disease. While N. ceranae is one 
potential cause of bee losses in a colony, other factors must also be 
considered, especially synergies between microsporidia and the use of 
insecticides.

DOI: 10.3390/vetsci9030130
PMCID: PMC8952814
PMID: 35324858

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


528. PLoS One. 2022 Mar 24;17(3):e0265950. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0265950. 
eCollection 2022.

Burden of oral cancer in Asia from 1990 to 2019: Estimates from the Global 
Burden of Disease 2019 study.

Xie L(1)(2), Shang Z(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial-Head and Neck Oncology, School and 
Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.

BACKGROUND: Oral cancer (OC) poses a threat to human health and imposes a heavy 
burden on countries. We assessed the burden imposed by OC on Asian nations from 
1990 to 2019 based on gender and age.
METHODS: We collected oral cancer data from the 2019 Global Burden of Disease 
study from 1990 to 2019 in 45 Asian countries and territories. Annual case data 
and age-standardised rates (ASRs) were used to investigate the incidence, 
mortality, and disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) of OC based on age and 
gender from 1990 to 2019 in 45 Asian countries and territories. Estimated annual 
percentage changes (EAPCs) were used to assess incidence rate, mortality, and 
trends in DALYs.
RESULTS: The age-standardised incidence rate (ASIR) of OC increased from 1990 to 
2019 with an EAPC of 0.32 (95% CI, 0.19-0.46), and the age-standardised death 
rate of OC remained stable at an EAPC of 0.08 (95%CI, from -0.06 to 0.21). The 
age-standardised DALYs of OC decreased at an EAPC of -0.16 (95%CI, from -0.30 to 
-0.02). The proportion of patients older than 70 years increased yearly in terms 
of incidence, mortality, and DALYs from 1990 to 2019. Of the DALYs, smoking was 
the main contributor in the Asian regions, and the largest contributor to DALYs 
in most Asian regions. Other contributors were alcohol use and chewing tobacco.
CONCLUSION: Although the burden of OC was declining in Asia, South Asia remained 
the region with the highest burden. OC caused the greatest burden in Pakistan, 
Taiwan China, and India. Therefore, measures should be taken to reduce the 
burden of oral cancer in high-risk regions and countries with attributable risk 
factors.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0265950
PMCID: PMC8947401
PMID: 35324990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


529. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2021 Nov 19:ezab491. doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezab491.
Online  ahead of print.

Reinterventions and new aortic events after aortic surgery in Marfan syndrome.

Toolan C(1), Oo S(1), Shaw M(1), Field M(1), Kuduvalli M(1), Harrington D(1), 
Nawaytou O(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital, Liverpool, 
UK.

OBJECTIVES: Pre-emptive strategies to manage the aortic complications of Marfan 
syndrome have resulted in improved life expectancy yet, secondary to the 
variation of phenotypic expression, anticipating the risk and nature of future 
aortic events is challenging. We examine rates of new aortic events and 
reinterventions in a Marfan cohort following initial aortic presentation.
METHODS: Retrospective cohort study of Marfan patients with aortic pathology 
presenting to our institution 1998-2018. Patients were grouped according to 
index event: aortic dissection or root aneurysm. Patients with aortic dissection 
were classified according to Debakey criteria. Incidence of new aortic events 
and frequency of reintervention were analysed.
RESULTS: One hundred and twenty-six aortic procedures were performed in 74 
Marfan patients with a median follow-up of 7 years. Forty-seven patients had an 
index event of root aneurysm and 27 had aortic dissection. Following operative 
intervention in the aneurysm group, 7 patients developed Debakey III dissections 
raising the overall number of patients who developed dissection within this 
cohort to 34. Reinterventions were more frequent in the dissection group with 
full replacement of the native aorta in 5 patients.
CONCLUSIONS: After operative intervention on the proximal aorta, a proportion 
will develop distal pathology. A greater focus on factors contributing to future 
events, such as mapping genotypes to clinical course, may lead the way for 
targeted operative techniques and surveillance.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/ejcts/ezab491
PMID: 35325086


530. Nucleic Acids Res. 2022 Apr 22;50(7):3777-3798. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkac180.

Xenogeneic nucleoid-associated EnrR thwarts H-NS silencing of bacterial 
virulence with unique DNA binding.

Ma R(1)(2), Liu Y(1), Gan J(3), Qiao H(1), Ma J(1), Zhang Y(1), Bu Y(1), Shao 
S(1)(4), Zhang Y(1)(5)(4), Wang Q(1)(6)(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, East China University of 
Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, China.
(2)Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center, Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular 
Virology of MOE/MOH, Fudan University, Shanghai 201508, China.
(3)Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center, State Key Laboratory of Genetic 
Engineering, Collaborative Innovation Center of Genetics and Development, 
Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, School of Life Sciences, Fudan 
University, Shanghai 200438, China.
(4)Shanghai Engineering Research Center of Maricultured Animal Vaccines, 
Shanghai 200237, China.
(5)Southern Marine Science and Engineering Guangdong Laboratory (Zhuhai), Zhuhai 
519000, China.
(6)Laboratory for Marine Fisheries Science and Food Production Processes, 
Qingdao National Laboratory for Marine Science and Technology, Qingdao 266071, 
China.

Type III and type VI secretion systems (T3/T6SS) are encoded in horizontally 
acquired genomic islands (GIs) that play crucial roles in evolution and 
virulence in bacterial pathogens. T3/T6SS expression is subjected to tight 
control by the host xenogeneic silencer H-NS, but how this mechanism is 
counteracted remains to be illuminated. Here, we report that xenogeneic 
nucleoid-associated protein EnrR encoded in a GI is essential for virulence in 
pathogenic bacteria Edwardsiella and Salmonella. We showed that EnrR plays 
critical roles in T3/T6SS expression in these bacteria. Various biochemical and 
genetic analyses demonstrated that EnrR binds and derepresses the promoter of 
esrB, the critical regulator of T3/T6SS, to promote their expression by 
competing with H-NS. Additionally, EnrR targets AT-rich regions, globally 
modulates the expression of ∼363 genes and is involved in various cellular 
processes. Crystal structures of EnrR in complex with a specific AT-rich 
palindromic DNA revealed a new DNA-binding mode that involves conserved 
HTH-mediated interactions with the major groove and contacts of its N-terminal 
extension to the minor groove in the symmetry-related duplex. Collectively, 
these data demonstrate that EnrR is a virulence activator that can antagonize 
H-NS, highlighting a unique mechanism by which bacterial xenogeneic regulators 
recognize and regulate foreign DNA.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic 
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkac180
PMCID: PMC9023278
PMID: 35325196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2022 May;23(5):703-720. doi: 
10.1007/s11864-022-00967-z. Epub 2022 Mar 24.

New PET Radiotracers for the Imaging of Neuroendocrine Neoplasms.

Fortunati E(1), Argalia G(2), Zanoni L(3), Fanti S(2)(3), Ambrosini V(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Nuclear Medicine, Department of Experimental, Diagnostic and Specialty 
Medicine, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy. 
emilia.fortunati@studio.unibo.it.
(2)Nuclear Medicine, Department of Experimental, Diagnostic and Specialty 
Medicine, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(3)Nuclear Medicine, IRCCS, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Di Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.

Neuroendocrine neoplasms (NEN) are a heterogeneous group of tumours derived from 
cells of neuroendocrine origin and can potentially arise everywhere in the human 
body. The diagnostic assessment of NEN can be performed using a variety of PET 
radiopharmaceuticals. Well-differentiated NEN (NET) present a high expression of 
SSTR (somatostatin receptors) and can therefore be studied with 
68Ga-DOTA-peptides ([68Ga]Ga-DOTANOC, [68Ga]Ga-DOTATOC, [68Ga]Ga-DOTATATE). 
Current guidelines recommend the use of SSTR imaging to assess disease extension 
at staging/restaging, follow-up, assessment of response to therapy and selection 
of patients who may benefit from radionuclide therapy (PRRT). [18F]F-FDG is used 
for the assessment of high-grade tumours (high-grade G2, G3 and NEC) and in 
every case, there is one or more mismatched lesions between diagnostic CT 
(positive) and SSTR-PET/CT (negative). [18F]F-DOPA is currently used for the 
assessment of medullary thyroid carcinoma, neuroblastoma, primary 
pheochromocytoma and abdominal paraganglioma. In recent years, however, several 
new tracers were designed exploiting the many potential targets of the 
neuroendocrine cell and were employed in clinical trials for both imaging and 
therapy. Currently, the real-life clinical impact of these tracers is still 
mostly not known; however, the favourable biodistribution (e.g. [68Ga]Ga-FAPI, 
SSTR antagonists) and the possibility to use new theranostic pairs may provide 
novel diagnostic as well as therapeutic options (e.g. [68Ga]Ga-PSMA, 
[64Cu]Cu-SARTATE, [68Ga]Ga-CXCR4) for NEN patients.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-022-00967-z
PMCID: PMC9001579
PMID: 35325412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: SF reports personal fees from AAA, Bayer, GE, 
Janssen, Novartis, Sofie, Telix and Astellas and grants to institution from 
Amgen and Telix. VA reports personal fees from EANM, ESMIT, AAA and ESMO and 
participation in ENETS Advisory Board, EANM Oncology Theranostic Committee, 
ITANET Scientific Board and ESMO Faculty. LZ reports personal fees from Springer 
(book editor) and Messaggi International Publisher & Events (invited congress 
speaker — topic not related to the current manuscript) and support for attending 
meeting from Hellenic Society of Nuclear Medicine, GE and Radius. EF and GA 
declare no competing interests.


532. Respir Med. 2022 May;196:106825. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2022.106825. Epub 2022
Mar  16.

Survival in COPD patients treated with bronchoscopic lung volume reduction.

Hartman JE(1), Welling JBA(2), Klooster K(2), Carpaij OA(2), Augustijn SWS(2), 
Slebos DJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary Diseases, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Centre Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands; Groningen Research Institute for 
Asthma and COPD, University of Groningen, University Medical Centre Groningen, 
Groningen, the Netherlands. Electronic address: j.hartman@umcg.nl.
(2)Department of Pulmonary Diseases, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Centre Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands; Groningen Research Institute for 
Asthma and COPD, University of Groningen, University Medical Centre Groningen, 
Groningen, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Severe COPD patients can significantly benefit from 
bronchoscopic lung volume reduction (BLVR) treatments with coils or 
endobronchial valves. However, the potential impact of BLVR on survival is less 
understood. Therefore, our aim was to investigate the survival rate in patients 
who are evaluated for BLVR treatment and whether there is a difference in 
survival rate between patients who undergo BLVR treatment and patients who do 
not.
METHODS: We included patients with COPD who visited our hospital for a 
consultation evaluating their eligibility for BLVR treatment and who performed 
pulmonary function tests during this visit. Furthermore, vital status was 
verified.
RESULTS: In total 1471 patients were included (63% female, mean age 61 years). A 
total of 531 patients (35%) died during follow-up and the median survival time 
of the total population was 2694 days (95% confidence interval(CI) 2462-2926) 
which is approximately 7.4 years. The median survival time of patients who were 
treated with BLVR was significantly longer compared to patients who were not 
treated with BLVR (3133 days versus 2503 days, p < 0.001), and BLVR was found to 
be an independent predictor of survival when adjusting for other 
survival-influencing factors such as age, gender or severity of disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that bronchoscopically reducing lung volume in 
patients with severe hyperinflation may lead to a survival benefit for a 
population with a severely reduced life expectancy.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmed.2022.106825
PMID: 35325741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Endoscopy. 2022 Nov;54(11):1023-1031. doi: 10.1055/a-1782-7568. Epub 2022
Mar  24.

Endoscopic ultrasound-guided gastroenterostomy versus duodenal stenting for 
malignant gastric outlet obstruction: an international, multicenter, propensity 
score-matched comparison.

van Wanrooij RLJ(1), Vanella G(2), Bronswijk M(3)(4), de Gooyer P(5), Laleman 
W(3), van Malenstein H(3), Mandarino FV(2), Dell'Anna G(2), Fockens P(1)(5), 
Arcidiacono PG(2), van der Merwe SW(3), Voermans RP(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije 
Universiteit, Amsterdam Gastroenterology Endocrinology and Metabolism, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Pancreatobiliary Endoscopy and Endosonography Division, Pancreas 
Translational and Clinical Research Centre, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific 
Institute and University, Milan, Italy.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospitals 
Gasthuisberg, University of Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Imelda General Hospital, 
Bonheiden, Belgium.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Amsterdam UMC, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam Gastroenterology Endocrinology and Metabolism, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2022 Jul;16(7):587-589.

BACKGROUND: Endoscopic duodenal stenting is the current standard treatment for 
malignant gastric outlet obstruction (GOO) in patients with limited life 
expectancy. However, duodenal stenting is prone to stent dysfunction. Endoscopic 
ultrasound-guided gastroenterostomy (EUS-GE) is a novel technique with 
potentially superior stent patency. We compared clinical success, safety, and 
stent dysfunction of EUS-GE and duodenal stenting in patients with malignant GOO 
using propensity score matching.
METHODS: This international, multicenter, retrospective study analyzed 
consecutive patients undergoing EUS-GE or duodenal stenting for GOO between 2015 
and 2021 in three European centers. Primary outcomes were clinical success (GOO 
scoring system [GOOSS] ≥ 2) and stent dysfunction (GOOSS ≤ 1 after initial 
clinical success). A propensity score matching (1:1) analysis was performed 
using age, sex, underlying disease, disease stage, ascites, and peritoneal 
carcinomatosis as variables.
RESULTS: 214 patients underwent EUS-GE (n = 107) or duodenal stenting (n = 107). 
After propensity score matching, 176 patients were matched and compared. 
Technical success rates for EUS-GE and duodenal stenting were 94 % (95 %CI 
89 %-99 %) vs. 98 % (95 %CI 95 %-100 %), respectively (P = 0.44). Clinical 
success rates were 91 % (95 %CI 85 %-97 %) vs. 75 % (95 %CI 66 %-84 %; 
P = 0.008). Stent dysfunction occurred in 1 % (95 %CI 0-4 %) vs. 26 % (95 %CI 
15 %-37 %) of patients (P < 0.001). Adverse event rate was 10 % (95 %CI 
4 %-17 %) vs. 21 % (95 %CI 12 %-29 %; P = 0.09).
CONCLUSION: EUS-GE had higher clinical success and lower stent dysfunction, with 
similar safety, compared with duodenal stenting, suggesting that EUS-GE may be 
preferred over duodenal stenting in patients with malignant GOO.

Thieme. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1055/a-1782-7568
PMID: 35325931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: RLJ van Wanrooij is a consultant for Boston 
Scientific. M Bronswijk is a consultant for Taewoong – Prion Medical. W Laleman 
is Co-Chair of the Boston Scientific Therapeutic Biliopancreatic Endoscopy 
group, and is a consultant for Boston Scientific and Cook. H van Malenstein is a 
consultant for Boston Scientific. P Fockens is a consultant for Olympus and Cook 
Medical. SW van der Merwe is Co-Chair of the Boston Scientific Therapeutic 
Biliopancreatic Endoscopy group and Chair of the Portal Hypertension group for 
Cook; he is also a consultant for Cook, Boston Scientific, and Pentax. RP 
Voermans is a consultant for Boston Scientific and has received research grants 
from Boston Scientific and Taewoong - Prion Medical. The remaining authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


534. Brain Sci. 2022 Feb 26;12(3):317. doi: 10.3390/brainsci12030317.

Systematic Evaluation of the T30 Neurostimulator Treatment for Tinnitus: A 
Double-Blind Randomised Placebo-Controlled Trial with Open-Label Extension.

Hall DA(1)(2)(3), Pierzycki RH(1)(2), Thomas H(1)(4), Greenberg D(5), Sereda 
M(1)(2), Hoare DJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)NIHR Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre, Ropewalk House, 113 the Ropewalk, 
Nottingham NG1 5DU, UK.
(2)Hearing Sciences, Mental Health and Clinical Neurosciences, School of 
Medicine, University of Nottingham, Nottingham NG7 2UH, UK.
(3)School of Social Sciences, Heriot-Watt University Malaysia, No. 1, Jalan 
Venna P5/2, Precinct 5, Putrajaya 62200, Malaysia.
(4)Department of Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT), Nottingham University Hospitals 
(NHS) Trust, Queen's Medical Centre Campus, Derby Road, Nottingham NG7 2UH, UK.
(5)Ear Institute, University College London (UCL), 332 Gray's Inn Road, London 
WC1X 8EE, UK.

Tinnitus is often triggered by cochlear damage and has been linked with aberrant 
patterns of neuronal activity. Acoustic Coordinated Reset (CR®) Neuromodulation 
is a sound therapy hypothesised to reduce tinnitus symptoms by desynchronising 
pathological brain activity using a portable acoustic device (the T30 
neurostimulator). We report results of a pivotal trial to test the efficacy of 
this intervention. This two-centre, double-blind randomised controlled trial 
with long-term open-label extension, was undertaken between February 2012 and 
February 2014 in the UK. Participants were 100 adults with tinnitus as a primary 
complaint, recruited through hearing clinics and media advertisements. 
Intervention was the device programmed either with the proprietary sound 
sequence or placebo algorithm, fit by one of five trained audiologists. 
Minimisation software provided group allocation (1:1 randomisation), with groups 
matched for age, gender, hearing loss and tinnitus severity. Allocation was 
masked from participants and assessors during the trial. The primary measure of 
efficacy was change in tinnitus symptom severity between groups, measured using 
the Tinnitus Handicap Questionnaire at 12 weeks. Secondary outcomes were other 
measures of tinnitus symptom severity, health-related quality of life, and 
perceptual characteristics (pitch, loudness, bandwidth) at 12 weeks, and 
Tinnitus Handicap Questionnaire at 36 weeks (open-label extension). A 
statistician blinded to the allocation conducted an intention-to-treat analysis 
that employed linear regressions on minimisation variables, trial centre and 
intervention group, with multiple imputations for missing data. The study was 
registered on clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01541969). We screened 391 individuals and 
assigned interventions to 100 eligible participants. The primary outcome was not 
statistically significant between groups (mean group = -0.45, 95% CI -5.25 to 
4.35; p = 0.85), nor were any of the secondary outcomes. Four adverse events 
occurred during the trial. Analysis of tinnitus symptom severity data collected 
across the 24-week open-label extension showed no statistically significant 
within-group changes after 12, 24, or 36 weeks treatment with the proprietary 
sound sequence. While individual participants may benefit from sound therapy, 
Acoustic CR® Neuromodulation did not lead to group-mean reductions on tinnitus 
symptom severity or other measures compared to placebo, or over time.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci12030317
PMCID: PMC8946033
PMID: 35326273

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


535. Cancers (Basel). 2022 Mar 16;14(6):1534. doi: 10.3390/cancers14061534.

Who Knows? Information Received, and Knowledge about, Cancer, Treatment and Late 
Effects in a National Cohort of Long-Term Childhood, Adolescent and Young Adult 
Cancer Survivors.

Gianinazzi ME(1), Kiserud CE(1), Ruud E(2)(3), Lie HC(4).

Author information:
(1)National Advisory Unit on Late Effects after Cancer Treatment, Oslo 
University Hospital, 0379 Oslo, Norway.
(2)Department of Pediatric Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Rikshospitalet, 
0372 Oslo, Norway.
(3)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, 0372 Oslo, Norway.
(4)Department of Behavioral Medicine, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Oslo, 0372 Oslo, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Knowledge of medical history and late effects is central in modern 
survivorship management, especially for long-term childhood, adolescent and 
young adult cancer survivors' (CAYACS) with long life expectancy rates and high 
risks of late effects. Identifying information and knowledge gaps is, therefore, 
important. As part of the population-based NOR-CAYACS study, we investigated the 
following: (1) written information received about their disease and treatment, 
and any information about late effects; (2) satisfaction with this information 
and associated factors; (3) knowledge about late effects and factors associated 
with low knowledge of specific late effects.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A questionnaire-based survey (Nor-CAYACS) was mailed to 
5361 CAYACS (childhood cancers, breast and colorectal cancer, acute lymphatic 
leukemia, non-Hodgkin lymphoma and malignant melanoma) identified by the Cancer 
Registry of Norway (CRN). Of these, 2018 answered questions about disease and 
late effects information and knowledge. Exposure variables were extracted from 
the questionnaire and CRN. Unfortunately, it was not possible to stratify by 
treatment in the analyses. We ran descriptive statistics for comparisons and 
logistic regressions to identify factors associated with outcomes of interest.
RESULTS: Overall, 50% to 60% of survivors reported not having received written 
information about their disease and treatment, or any information about late 
effects. There was a large variation in reported knowledge across 17 late 
effects. Lower levels of knowledge were associated with male sex, lower 
education and poorer health literacy in multivariable regression models.
CONCLUSIONS: Knowledge of cancer history and risks of late effects is essential 
for effective self-management, yet significant information and knowledge gaps 
were reported in this population-based sample of long-term CAYACS. Systematic 
approaches to making (up-to-date) information available to long-term survivors 
are needed to ensure that information does not get lost in medical and life 
transitions.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14061534
PMCID: PMC8946204
PMID: 35326685

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest, 
financial or otherwise.


536. Cancers (Basel). 2022 Mar 20;14(6):1578. doi: 10.3390/cancers14061578.

Circadian and Immunity Cycle Talk in Cancer Destination: From Biological Aspects 
to In Silico Analysis.

Mirian M(1), Hariri A(1), Yadollahi M(2), Kohandel M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan 
8174673461, Iran.
(2)School of Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Isfahan University of 
Medical Sciences, Isfahan 8174673461, Iran.
(3)Department of Applied Mathematics, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, ON N2L 
3G1, Canada.

Cancer is the leading cause of death and a major problem to increasing life 
expectancy worldwide. In recent years, various approaches such as surgery, 
chemotherapy, radiation, targeted therapies, and the newest pillar, 
immunotherapy, have been developed to treat cancer. Among key factors impacting 
the effectiveness of treatment, the administration of drugs based on the 
circadian rhythm in a person and within individuals can significantly elevate 
drug efficacy, reduce adverse effects, and prevent drug resistance. Circadian 
clocks also affect various physiological processes such as the sleep cycle, body 
temperature cycle, digestive and cardiovascular processes, and endocrine and 
immune systems. In recent years, to achieve precision patterns for drug 
administration using computational methods, the interaction of the effects of 
drugs and their cellular pathways has been considered more seriously. Integrated 
data-derived pathological images and genomics, transcriptomics, and proteomics 
analyses have provided an understanding of the molecular basis of cancer and 
dramatically revealed interactions between circadian and immunity cycles. Here, 
we describe crosstalk between the circadian cycle signaling pathway and immunity 
cycle in cancer and discuss how tumor microenvironment affects the influence on 
treatment process based on individuals' genetic differences. Moreover, we 
highlight recent advances in computational modeling that pave the way for 
personalized immune chronotherapy.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14061578
PMCID: PMC8945968
PMID: 35326729

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


537. Cancers (Basel). 2022 Mar 21;14(6):1585. doi: 10.3390/cancers14061585.

The Role of ROS as a Double-Edged Sword in (In)Fertility: The Impact of Cancer 
Treatment.

Mendes S(1)(2), Sá R(3)(4), Magalhães M(4)(5), Marques F(5), Sousa M(3)(4), 
Silva E(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Education and Sports, University Institute of Maia 
(ISMAI), 4475-690 Maia, Portugal.
(2)Research Center in Sports Sciences, Health Sciences and Human Development 
(CIDESD), 5001-801 Vila Real, Portugal.
(3)Laboratory of Cell Biology, Department of Microscopy, Institute of Biomedical 
Sciences Abel Salazar (ICBAS), University of Porto, Rua Jorge Viterbo Ferreira, 
228, 4050-313 Porto, Portugal.
(4)Unit for Multidisciplinary Research in Biomedicine (UMIB), Laboratory for 
Integrative and Translational Research in Population Health (ITR), University of 
Porto, 4099-002 Porto, Portugal.
(5)Department of Oncology, University Hospital Center of Porto (CHUP), Largo do 
Prof. Abel Salazar, 4099-001 Porto, Portugal.
(6)Laboratory of General Physiology, Department of Immuno-Physiology and 
Pharmacology, Institute of Biomedical Sciences Abel Salazar (ICBAS), University 
of Porto, Rua Jorge Viterbo Ferreira, 228, 4050-313 Porto, Portugal.
(7)Institute for Molecular and Cell Biology (IBMC), Institute for Research & 
Innovation in Health (I3S), University of Porto, Rua Alfredo Allen, 4200-135 
Porto, Portugal.

Tumor cells are highly resistant to oxidative stress resulting from the 
imbalance between high reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and insufficient 
antioxidant defenses. However, when intracellular levels of ROS rise beyond a 
certain threshold, largely above cancer cells' capacity to reduce it, they may 
ultimately lead to apoptosis or necrosis. This is, in fact, one of the molecular 
mechanisms of anticancer drugs, as most chemotherapeutic treatments alter redox 
homeostasis by further elevation of intracellular ROS levels or inhibition of 
antioxidant pathways. In traditional chemotherapy, it is widely accepted that 
most therapeutic effects are due to ROS-mediated cell damage, but in targeted 
therapies, ROS-mediated effects are mostly unknown and data are still emerging. 
The increasing effectiveness of anticancer treatments has raised new challenges, 
especially in the field of reproduction. With cancer patients' life expectancy 
increasing, many aiming to become parents will be confronted with the adverse 
effects of treatments. Consequently, concerns about the impact of anticancer 
therapies on reproductive capacity are of particular interest. In this review, 
we begin with a short introduction on anticancer therapies, then address ROS 
physiological/pathophysiological roles in both male and female reproductive 
systems, and finish with ROS-mediated adverse effects of anticancer treatments 
in reproduction.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14061585
PMCID: PMC8946252
PMID: 35326736

Conflict of interest statement: We here state that the material contained in the 
submitted manuscript has not been published previously, and has not being 
submitted elsewhere for publication. We declare that we all participated in the 
present study and that we have seen and approved the final version. We also 
declare that if this publication is accepted, it will not be published elsewhere 
including electronically in the same form, in English or in any other language, 
without the written consent of the copyright-holder. There was also no 
Fabrication, falsification, plagiarism, repetitive publications, obfuscation, no 
human research or experimentation. All authors also agree the order of 
authorship. All Authors disclose any actual or potential conflict of interest 
including any financial, personal or other relationships with other people or 
organizations within three years of beginning the submitted work that could 
inappropriately influence, or be perceived to influence their work, such as 
manufacturers of pharmaceuticals, laboratory supplies, and/or medical devices. 
It also includes employment, consultancies, stock ownership, honoraria, paid 
expert testimony, patent applications/registrations, and grants or other 
funding, including any financial arrangement with a company whose product is 
prominent in the submitted manuscript or with a company making a competing 
product, and any commercial affiliations.


538. Biomedicines. 2022 Mar 19;10(3):714. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines10030714.

Periodontal Disease Augments Cardiovascular Disease Risk Biomarkers in 
Rheumatoid Arthritis.

Panezai J(1)(2)(3), Ghaffar A(4), Altamash M(5), Åberg M(6), Van Dyke TE(3)(7), 
Larsson A(6), Engström PE(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Oral Health and Periodontology, Division of Oral Diseases, 
Department of Dental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, 14104 Huddinge, Sweden.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Life Sciences and Informatics, 
Balochistan University of Information Technology, Engineering and Management 
Sciences (BUITEMS), Quetta 87300, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Applied Oral Sciences, The Forsyth Institute, Cambridge, MA 
02142, USA.
(4)Rheumatology Clinic, Habib Medical Centre, Karachi 75950, Pakistan.
(5)Department of Periodontology, Altamash Institute of Dental Medicine, Karachi 
75500, Pakistan.
(6)Clinical Chemistry, Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, 75236 
Uppsala, Sweden.
(7)Department of Oral Medicine, Infection and Immunity, Harvard Faculty of 
Medicine, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Objectives: Periodontal disease (PD) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are known 
chronic conditions with sustained inflammation leading to osteolysis. 
Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are frequent comorbidities that may arise from 
sustained inflammation associated with both PD and RA. In order to determine CVD 
risk, alterations at the molecular level need to be identified. The objective of 
this study, therefore, was to assess the relationship of CVD associated 
biomarkers in RA patients and how it is influenced by PD. Methods: The study 
consisted of patient (26 RA with PD, 21 RA without PD, 51 patients with PD only) 
and systemically and periodontally healthy control (n = 20) groups. Periodontal 
parameters bleeding on probing, probing pocket depth, and marginal bone loss 
were determined to characterize the patient groups. Proteomic analysis of 92 
CVD-related protein biomarkers was performed using a multiplex proximity 
extension assay. Biomarkers were clustered using the search tool for retrieval 
of interacting genes (STRING) to determine protein−protein interaction (PPI) 
networks. Results: RA patients with PD had higher detection levels for 47% of 
the measured markers (ANGPT1, BOC, CCL17, CCL3, CD4, CD84, CTRC, FGF-21, FGF-23, 
GLO1, HAOX1, HB-EGF, hOSCAR, HSP 27, IL16, IL-17D, IL18, IL-27, IL6, LEP, LPL, 
MERTK, MMP12, MMP7, NEMO, PAPPA, PAR-1, PARP-1, PD-L2, PGF, PIgR, PRELP, RAGE, 
SCF, SLAMF7, SRC, THBS2, THPO, TNFRSF13B, TRAIL-R2, VEGFD, VSIG2, and XCL1) as 
compared to RA without PD. Furthermore, a strong biological network was 
identified amongst these proteins (clustering coefficient = 0.52, PPI enrichment 
p-value < 0.0001). Coefficients for protein clusters involved in CVD (0.59), 
metabolic (0.53), and skeletal (0.51) diseases were strongest in the PD group. 
Conclusion: Periodontal disease augments CVD-related biomarkers in RA through 
shared pathological clusters, concurrently enhancing metabolic and skeletal 
disease protein interactions, independent of autoimmune status.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines10030714
PMCID: PMC8945365
PMID: 35327515

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. Van 
Dyke is supported by USPHS, NIH, NIDCR DE025020.


539. Children (Basel). 2022 Mar 1;9(3):329. doi: 10.3390/children9030329.

The Relation between Vitamin D Level and Lung Clearance Index in Cystic 
Fibrosis-A Pilot Study.

Dediu M(1), Ciuca IM(1), Pop LL(1), Iacob D(2).

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Department, "Victor Babes" University of Medicine and Pharmacy 
Timisoara, Eftimie Murgu Square No. 2, 300041 Timisoara, Romania.
(2)Department of Neonatology, "Victor Babes" University of Medicine and Pharmacy 
Timisoara, Eftimie Murgu Square No. 2, 300041 Timisoara, Romania.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy has increased in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients; 
however, the rate of mortality is still high, and in a majority of cases, the 
cause of death is due to respiratory deterioration. Vitamin D plays an important 
role in immunity and infection prophylaxis, as its deficiency is associated with 
frequent infections. In CF patients, a deficit of liposoluble vitamins is 
common, despite daily supplementation. The aim of this study is to evaluate the 
relation between vitamin D status and lung function expressed by lung clearance 
index (LCI) in patients with CF. We also assessed the relation of factors such 
as nutritional status, genotype, and associated comorbidities such as 
Pseudomonas infection, cystic fibrosis-related diabetes (CFRD), and cystic 
fibrosis liver disease (CFLD) with vitamin D and LCI.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted at the National Cystic Fibrosis 
Center by analyzing patients with CF who presented in our center between 
November 2017 and November 2019. We enrolled in the study patients diagnosed 
with CF, who were followed up in our CF center and who were able to perform lung 
function tests. Patients in exacerbation were excluded.
RESULTS: A strong negative correlation was found between vitamin D and LCI (r = 
-0.69, p = 0.000). A lower vitamin D storage was found in patients with CFLD and 
CFRD. Higher LCI values were found among patients with chronic Pseudomonas 
infection, with BMI under the 25th percentile, or with associated CFLD.
CONCLUSION: In CF patients, vitamin D plays an important role, and its deficit 
correlates with an impaired LCI. Vitamin D deficit is a risk factor in patients 
with associated comorbidities such as CFLD and CFRD. Chronic infection with 
Pseudomonas, the presence of impaired nutritional status, and CFLD are 
associated with a prolonged LCI.

DOI: 10.3390/children9030329
PMCID: PMC8947157
PMID: 35327701

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


540. Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Mar 10;23(6):3009. doi: 10.3390/ijms23063009.

Evaluation of 6-Hydroxydopamine and Rotenone In Vitro Neurotoxicity on 
Differentiated SH-SY5Y Cells Using Applied Computational Statistics.

Simões RF(1)(2), Oliveira PJ(1), Cunha-Oliveira T(1), Pereira FB(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)CNC-Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, CIBB-Centre for Innovative 
Biomedicine and Biotechnology, University of Coimbra, 3004-504 Coimbra, 
Portugal.
(2)Programme in Experimental Biology and Biomedicine (PDBEB), Center for 
Neuroscience and Cell Biology, Institute for Interdisciplinary Research, 
3004-504 Coimbra, Portugal.
(3)CISUC, Centre for Informatics & Systems, University of Coimbra, 3030-299 
Coimbra, Portugal.
(4)Polytechnic Institute of Coimbra, Coimbra Institute of Engineering, 3030-190 
Coimbra, Portugal.

With the increase in life expectancy and consequent aging of the world's 
population, the prevalence of many neurodegenerative diseases is increasing, 
without concomitant improvement in diagnostics and therapeutics. These diseases 
share neuropathological hallmarks, including mitochondrial dysfunction. In fact, 
as mitochondrial alterations appear prior to neuronal cell death at an early 
phase of a disease's onset, the study and modulation of mitochondrial 
alterations have emerged as promising strategies to predict and prevent 
neurotoxicity and neuronal cell death before the onset of cell viability 
alterations. In this work, differentiated SH-SY5Y cells were treated with the 
mitochondrial-targeted neurotoxicants 6-hydroxydopamine and rotenone. These 
compounds were used at different concentrations and for different time points to 
understand the similarities and differences in their mechanisms of action. To 
accomplish this, data on mitochondrial parameters were acquired and analyzed 
using unsupervised (hierarchical clustering) and supervised (decision tree) 
machine learning methods. Both biochemical and computational analyses resulted 
in an evident distinction between the neurotoxic effects of 6-hydroxydopamine 
and rotenone, specifically for the highest concentrations of both compounds.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms23063009
PMCID: PMC8953223
PMID: 35328430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.541. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Mar 8;19(6):3195. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19063195.

Palliative Care in Older People with Multimorbidities: A Scoping Review on the 
Palliative Care Needs of Patients, Carers, and Health Professionals.

Llop-Medina L(1), Fu Y(2), Garcés-Ferrer J(1), Doñate-Martínez A(1).

Author information:
(1)Polibienestar Research Institute, University of Valencia, 46022 Valencia, 
Spain.
(2)Population Health Sciences Institute, Newcastle University, Newcastle NE2 
4AX, UK.

Although numerous studies have been conducted previously on the needs of cancer 
patients at the end of their life, there is a lack of studies focused on older 
patients with non-oncological complex chronic multipathologies. Examining these 
needs would help to gain a greater understanding of the profile of this specific 
population within the palliative care (PC) pathway and how the health and care 
systems can address them. The aim of this review was to identify the needs 
influencing PC among older patients with multimorbidities, their relatives or 
informal caregivers, and the health professionals who provide care for these 
patients. A scoping literature review guided by the Systematic Reviews and 
Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) checklist was carried 
out with literature searched in the Medline, Embase, CINAHL, WoS, Cochrane 
Library, PsycINFO, and Scopus databases from 2009 to 2022. Eighty-one studies 
were included, demonstrating a great variety of unaddressed needs for PC among 
chronic older patients and the complexity in detecting those needs and how to 
refer them to PC pathways. This review also suggested a scarcity of tools and 
limited pathways for professionals to satisfy their needs for these patients and 
their families, who often felt ignored by the system. Substantial changes will 
be needed in health and care systems at the institutional level, providing more 
specialized PC environments and systematizing PC processes.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19063195
PMCID: PMC8954932
PMID: 35328881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


542. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Mar 14;19(6):3396. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19063396.

MicroRNA-21 Expression as a Prognostic Biomarker in Oral Cancer: Systematic 
Review and Meta-Analysis.

Dioguardi M(1), Spirito F(1), Sovereto D(1), Alovisi M(2), Troiano G(1), Aiuto 
R(3), Garcovich D(4), Crincoli V(5), Laino L(6), Cazzolla AP(1), Caloro GA(7), 
Di Cosola M(1), Lo Muzio L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Foggia, Via 
Rovelli 50, 71122 Foggia, Italy.
(2)Department of Surgical Sciences, Dental School, University of Turin, 10127 
Turin, Italy.
(3)Department of Biomedical, Surgical and Dental Science, University of Milan, 
20122 Milan, Italy.
(4)Department of Dentistry, Universidad Europea de Valencia, Paseo de la Alameda 
7, 46010 Valencia, Spain.
(5)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Neurosciences and Sensory Organs, 
Division of Complex Operating Unit of Dentistry, "Aldo Moro" University of Bari, 
Piazza G. Cesare 11, 70124 Bari, Italy.
(6)Multidisciplinary Department of Medical-Surgical and Odontostomatological 
Specialties, University of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", 80121 Naples, Italy.
(7)Unità Operativa Nefrologia e Dialisi, Presidio Ospedaliero Scorrano, ASL 
(Azienda Sanitaria Locale) Lecce, Via Giuseppina Delli Ponti, 73020 Scorrano, 
Italy.

Oral carcinoma represents one of the main carcinomas of the head and neck 
region, with a 5-year survival rate of less than 50%. Smoking and tobacco use 
are recognized risk factors. Prognostic survival biomarkers can be a valid tool 
for assessing a patient's life expectancy and directing therapy towards specific 
targets. Among the biomarkers, the alteration of miR-21 expression in tumor 
tissues is increasingly reported as a valid prognostic biomarker of survival for 
oral cancer. The purpose of this meta-analysis was, therefore, to investigate 
and summarize the results in the literature concerning the potential prognostic 
expression of tissue miR-21 in patients with OSCC.
METHODS: The systematic review was conducted following the PRISMA guidelines 
using electronic databases, such as PubMed, Scopus, and the Cochrane Central 
Register of Controlled Trials, with the use of combinations of keywords, such as 
miR-21 AND oral cancer, microRNA AND oral cancer, and miR-21. The meta-analysis 
was performed using the RevMan 5.41 software.
RESULTS: At the end of the article-selection process, 10 studies were included 
in the meta-analysis, and the result for the main outcome was a pooled HR per 
overall survival (OS) of 1.29 (1.16-1.44) between high and low expression of 
miR-21.
CONCLUSIONS: The data in the literature and the results emerging from the 
systematic review indicate that miR-21 can provide a prognostic indication in 
oral cancer.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19063396
PMCID: PMC8948874
PMID: 35329083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


543. J Clin Med. 2022 Mar 11;11(6):1550. doi: 10.3390/jcm11061550.

Trans-Spinal Electrical Stimulation Therapy for Functional Rehabilitation after 
Spinal Cord Injury: Review.

Rahman MA(1)(2), Tharu NS(1), Gustin SM(3)(4), Zheng YP(1), Alam M(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, 
Hong Kong, China.
(2)Centre for the Rehabilitation of the Paralysed (CRP), Savar Union 1343, 
Bangladesh.
(3)NeuroRecovery Research Hub, School of Psychology, University of New South 
Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.
(4)Centre for Pain IMPACT, Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, NSW 2031, 
Australia.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) is one of the most debilitating injuries in the world. 
Complications after SCI, such as respiratory issues, bowel/bladder incontinency, 
pressure ulcers, autonomic dysreflexia, spasticity, pain, etc., lead to immense 
suffering, a remarkable reduction in life expectancy, and even premature death. 
Traditional rehabilitations for people with SCI are often insignificant or 
ineffective due to the severity and complexity of the injury. However, the 
recent development of noninvasive electrical neuromodulation treatments to the 
spinal cord have shed a ray of hope for these individuals to regain some of 
their lost functions, a reduction in secondary complications, and an improvement 
in their life quality. For this review, 250 articles were screened and about 150 
were included to summarize the two most promising noninvasive spinal cord 
electrical stimulation methods of SCI rehabilitation treatment, namely, 
trans-spinal direct current stimulation (tsDCS) and trans-spinal pulsed current 
stimulation (tsPCS). Both treatments have demonstrated good success in not only 
improving the sensorimotor function, but also autonomic functions. Due to the 
noninvasive nature and lower costs of these treatments, in the coming years, we 
expect these treatments to be integrated into regular rehabilitation therapies 
worldwide.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11061550
PMCID: PMC8954138
PMID: 35329875

Conflict of interest statement: Authors declare no conflict of interest.


544. J Clin Med. 2022 Mar 11;11(6):1554. doi: 10.3390/jcm11061554.

A Nationwide Survey of Dementia Prevalence in Long-Term Care Facilities in 
Taiwan.

Kao YH(1)(2)(3), Hsu CC(4)(5)(6)(7), Yang YH(8)(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Education and Research, National Taiwan University 
Hospital Yun-Lin Branch, Douliu 640, Taiwan.
(2)Graduate Institute of Anatomy and Cell Biology, National Taiwan University 
College of Medicine, Taipei 100, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Neurology, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei 100, 
Taiwan.
(4)National Center for Geriatrics and Welfare Research, National Health Research 
Institutes, Zhunan 350, Taiwan.
(5)Institute of Population Health Sciences, National Health Research Institutes, 
Zhunan 350, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Health Services Administration, China Medical University, 
Taichung 404, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Family Medicine, Min-Sheng General Hospital, Taoyuan 330, 
Taiwan.
(8)Department of Neurology, Kaohsiung Municipal Ta-Tung Hospital, Kaohsiung City 
801, Taiwan.
(9)Department of Neurology, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 
Medical University, Kaohsiung City 807, Taiwan.
(10)School of Post-Baccalaureate Medicine, Colleague of Medicine, Kaohsiung 
Medical University, Kaohsiung City 807, Taiwan.
(11)Neuroscience Research Center, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung City 
807, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: As the average life expectancy of global citizens has increased, the 
prevalence of dementia has increased rapidly. The number of patients with 
dementia has increased by 6.7 times, reaching 300,000 in the past three decades 
in Taiwan. To realize the latest actual situation, the need for institutional 
care for elderly patients with dementia, and also a reference basis for 
government agencies to formulate dementia-related care policies, we investigated 
the institutional prevalence of dementia.
METHODS: We randomly sampled 299 out of the 1607 registered long-term care 
facilities including senior citizens' institutions, nursing homes, and veteran 
homes in every administrative region of Taiwan. Then, a two-phase survey 
including MMSE screening, CDR, and clinical confirmation was conducted on each 
subject from 2019 to 2020.
RESULTS: Among 5753 enrolled subjects, 4765 from 266 facilities completed the 
examinations with a response rate of 82.8%. A total of 4150 subjects were 
diagnosed with dementia, 7.4% of whom had very mild dementia. The prevalence of 
all-cause dementia, including very mild dementia, was 87.1% in all facilities, 
87.4% in senior citizens' institutions, 87.1% in nursing homes, and 83.3% in 
veteran homes. Advanced age, low education, hypertension, Parkinsonism, 
respiratory disease, stroke, and intractable epilepsy were associated with 
dementia risk.
CONCLUSIONS: We show that in an aged society, the prevalence of all-cause 
dementia in long-term care institutions can be as high as 87.1%. This study was 
completed before the outbreak of COVID-19 and provides a precious hallmark for 
future epidemiological research. We recommend that the long-term care policy in 
an aged society needs to take into account the increasing high prevalence of 
dementia in the institution.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11061554
PMCID: PMC8955493
PMID: 35329879

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


545. J Clin Med. 2022 Mar 13;11(6):1581. doi: 10.3390/jcm11061581.

Neurological Presentation of Giant Pituitary Tumour Apoplexy: Case Report and 
Literature Review of a Rare but Life-Threatening Condition.

Puglisi V(1), Morini E(2), Biasini F(3), Vinciguerra L(1), Lanza G(4)(5), 
Bramanti P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Stroke Unit, Istituti Ospitalieri, ASST Cremona, 
Viale Concordia 1, 26100 Cremona, Italy.
(2)IRCCS Centro Neurolesi "Bonino-Pulejo", Via Provinciale Palermo, Contrada 
Casazza, 98124 Messina, Italy.
(3)Unit of Neurology and Neuromuscular Diseases, Policlinico University Hospital 
"G. Martino", Via Consolare Valeria 1-2, 98124 Messina, Italy.
(4)Department of Surgery and Medical-Surgical Specialties, University of 
Catania, Via Santa Sofia 78, 95123 Catania, Italy.
(5)Clinical Neurophysiology Research Unit, Oasi Research Institute-IRCCS, Via 
Conte Ruggero 73, 94018 Troina, Italy.

Background: Giant pituitary adenomas are benign intracranial tumours with a 
diameter ≥4 cm. Even if hormonally non-functional, they may still cause local 
extension, leading to symptoms that include mostly gland dysfunction, mass 
effects, and, much less frequently, apoplexy due to haemorrhage or infarction. 
Neurological presentation of giant pituitary tumour apoplexy is even more rare 
and has not been systematically reviewed. Case Presentation: An 81-year-old 
woman was admitted to the Emergency Department because of acute onset headache, 
bilateral visual deficit, and altered consciousness. Computed tomography showed 
a giant mass lesion (>5.5 cm diameter) expanding upward to the suprasellar 
cistern, optic chiasm, and third ventricle, over-running the sphenoid sinus, and 
with lateral invasion of the cavernous sinus. Laboratory investigations revealed 
central adrenal and hypothyroidism insufficiency, while magnetic resonance 
imaging confirmed a voluminous suprasellar tumour (~6 cm diameter), with signs 
of pituitary tumour apoplexy. Neurological manifestations and gland-related 
deficits improved after hormonal replacement therapy with a high dose of 
intravenous hydrocortisone, followed by oral hydrocortisone and levo-thyroxine. 
The patient declined surgical treatment and follow-up visit. Conclusions: Giant 
pituitary tumour apoplexy is a rare but potentially life-threatening condition. 
Prompt diagnosis and multidisciplinary management may allow a remarkable 
clinical improvement, as seen in this case.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11061581
PMCID: PMC8953299
PMID: 35329907

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


546. J Clin Med. 2022 Mar 16;11(6):1648. doi: 10.3390/jcm11061648.

A New Approach for Evaluation of Cardiovascular Fitness and Cardiac Responses to 
Maximal Exercise Test in Master Runners: A Cross-Sectional Study.

Latorre-Román PÁ(1), García-Pinillos F(2)(3), Salas Sánchez J(4), Jiménez MM(1), 
Serrano Huete V(5), Martínez Redondo M(6), Vela JA(7)(8), Párraga-Montilla 
JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Corporal Expression, University of Jaen, 23071 Jaen, Spain.
(2)Department of Physical Education, Sports and Recreation, Universidad de La 
Frontera, Temuco 4780000, Chile.
(3)Department of Physical Education and Sports, University of Granada, 18071 
Granada, Spain.
(4)Universidad Autónoma de Chile, Santiago 7500912, Chile.
(5)Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, International University Isabel I, 
09003 Burgos, Spain.
(6)Consejería de Educación de Andalucía, CEIP Doctor Fleming, 23500 Jodar, 
Spain.
(7)Department Physiology, Faculty of Sport Sciences, University of Granada, 
18071 Granada, Spain.
(8)Department of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports (NEXS), University of 
Copenhagen, 1165 Copenhagen, Denmark.

