terms of the Creative Commons Attribution CC BY 4.0 licence, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, reproduction and adaption in any medium and for 
any purpose provided that it is properly attributed. See: 
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/. For attribution the title, 
original author(s), the publication source – NIHR Journals Library, and the DOI 
of the publication must be cited.

DOI: 10.3310/ULTI9178
PMID: 35289990


418. J Chem Theory Comput. 2022 Apr 12;18(4):2354-2366. doi: 
10.1021/acs.jctc.1c00821. Epub 2022 Mar 15.

Transferable Neural Network Potential Energy Surfaces for Closed-Shell Organic 
Molecules: Extension to Ions.

Jacobson LD(1), Stevenson JM(1), Ramezanghorbani F(1), Ghoreishi D(1), Leswing 
K(1), Harder ED(1), Abel R(1).

Author information:
(1)Schrödinger Inc., 1540 Broadway, 24th floor, New York, New York 10036, United 
States.

Transferable high dimensional neural network potentials (HDNNPs) have shown 
great promise as an avenue to increase the accuracy and domain of applicability 
of existing atomistic force fields for organic systems relevant to life science. 
We have previously reported such a potential (Schrödinger-ANI) that has broad 
coverage of druglike molecules. We extend that work here to cover ionic and 
zwitterionic druglike molecules expected to be relevant to drug discovery 
research activities. We report a novel HDNNP architecture, which we call QRNN, 
that predicts atomic charges and uses these charges as descriptors in an energy 
model that delivers conformational energies within chemical accuracy when 
measured against the reference theory it is trained to. Further, we find that 
delta learning based on a semiempirical level of theory approximately halves the 
errors. We test the models on torsion energy profiles, relative conformational 
energies, geometric parameters, and relative tautomer errors.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jctc.1c00821
PMID: 35290063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. J Proteome Res. 2022 Apr 1;21(4):1189-1195. doi:
10.1021/acs.jproteome.1c00771.  Epub 2022 Mar 15.

Proteomics Standards Initiative's ProForma 2.0: Unifying the Encoding of 
Proteoforms and Peptidoforms.

LeDuc RD(1), Deutsch EW(2), Binz PA(3), Fellers RT(1), Cesnik AJ(4)(5)(6), Klein 
JA(7), Van Den Bossche T(8)(9), Gabriels R(8)(9), Yalavarthi A(1), Perez-Riverol 
Y(10), Carver J, Bittremieux W, Kawano S(11)(12), Pullman B, Bandeira N, 
Kelleher NL(1), Thomas PM(1), Vizcaíno JA(10).

Author information:
(1)National Resource for Translational and Developmental Proteomics, 
Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60611, United States.
(2)Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, Washington 98109, United States.
(3)Clinical Chemistry Service, Lausanne University Hospital, 1011 Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(4)Department of Genetics, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, 
United States.
(5)Chan Zuckerberg Biohub, 499 Illinois Street, San Francisco, California 94158, 
United States.
(6)SciLifeLab, School of Engineering Sciences in Chemistry Biotechnology and 
Health, KTH-Royal Institute of Technology, SE-171 21 Solna, Stockholm, Sweden 
113 51.
(7)Program for Bioinformatics, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, 
United States.
(8)VIB-UGent Center for Medical Biotechnology, VIB, Technologiepark 75-FSVM II, 
9052 Ghent, Belgium.
(9)Department of Biomolecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
Ghent University, 9000 Ghent, Belgium.
(10)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, EMBL-European Bioinformatics 
Institute (EMBL-EBI), Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SD, United Kingdom.
(11)Toyama University of International Studies, Toyama, 930-1292 Toyama, 
Higashikuromaki, 6 5-1, Japan.
(12)Database Center for Life Science, Joint Support-Center for Data Science 
Research, Research Organization of Information and Systems, Kashiwa, Chiba 
277-0871, Japan.

It is important for the proteomics community to have a standardized manner to 
represent all possible variations of a protein or peptide primary sequence, 
including natural, chemically induced, and artifactual modifications. The Human 
Proteome Organization Proteomics Standards Initiative in collaboration with 
several members of the Consortium for Top-Down Proteomics (CTDP) has developed a 
standard notation called ProForma 2.0, which is a substantial extension of the 
original ProForma notation developed by the CTDP. ProForma 2.0 aims to unify the 
representation of proteoforms and peptidoforms. ProForma 2.0 supports use cases 
needed for bottom-up and middle-/top-down proteomics approaches and allows the 
encoding of highly modified proteins and peptides using a human- and 
machine-readable string. ProForma 2.0 can be used to represent protein 
modifications in a specified or ambiguous location, designated by mass shifts, 
chemical formulas, or controlled vocabulary terms, including cross-links 
(natural and chemical) and atomic isotopes. Notational conventions are based on 
public controlled vocabularies and ontologies. The most up-to-date full 
specification document and information about software implementations are 
available at http://psidev.info/proforma.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jproteome.1c00771
PMCID: PMC7612572
PMID: 35290070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


420. PLoS Med. 2022 Mar 15;19(3):e1003936. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1003936. 
eCollection 2022 Mar.

A comparison over 2 decades of disability-free life expectancy at age 65 years 
for those with long-term conditions in England: Analysis of the 2 longitudinal 
Cognitive Function and Ageing Studies.

Bennett HQ(1), Kingston A(1), Lourida I(1), Robinson L(1), Corner L(1), Brayne 
C(2), Matthews FE(1), Jagger C(1); Cognitive Function and Ageing Studies 
Collaboration.

Author information:
(1)Population Health Sciences Institute, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Newcastle 
University, Newcastle, United Kingdom.
(2)Cambridge Public Health, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Previous research has examined the improvements in healthy years if 
different health conditions are eliminated, but often with cross-sectional data, 
or for a limited number of conditions. We used longitudinal data to estimate 
disability-free life expectancy (DFLE) trends for older people with a broad 
number of health conditions, identify the conditions that would result in the 
greatest improvement in DFLE, and describe the contribution of the underlying 
transitions.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: The Cognitive Function and Ageing Studies (CFAS I and II) 
are both large population-based studies of those aged 65 years or over in 
England with identical sampling strategies (CFAS I response 81.7%, N = 7,635; 
CFAS II response 54.7%, N = 7,762). CFAS I baseline interviews were conducted in 
1991 to 1993 and CFAS II baseline interviews in 2008 to 2011, both with 2 years 
of follow-up. Disability was measured using the modified Townsend activities of 
daily living scale. Long-term conditions (LTCs-arthritis, cognitive impairment, 
coronary heart disease (CHD), diabetes, hearing difficulties, peripheral 
vascular disease (PVD), respiratory difficulties, stroke, and vision impairment) 
were self-reported. Multistate models estimated life expectancy (LE) and DFLE, 
stratified by sex and study and adjusted for age. DFLE was estimated from the 
transitions between disability-free and disability states at the baseline and 
2-year follow-up interviews, and LE was estimated from mortality transitions up 
to 4.5 years after baseline. In CFAS I, 60.8% were women and average age was 
75.6 years; in CFAS II, 56.1% were women and average age was 76.4 years. 
Cognitive impairment was the only LTC whose prevalence decreased over time (odds 
ratio: 0.6, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.5 to 0.6, p < 0.001), and where the 
percentage of remaining years at age 65 years spent disability-free decreased 
for men (difference CFAS II-CFAS I: -3.6%, 95% CI: -8.2 to 1.0, p = 0.12) and 
women (difference CFAS II-CFAS I: -3.9%, 95% CI: -7.6 to 0.0, p = 0.04) with the 
LTC. For men and women with any other LTC, DFLE improved or remained similar. 
For women with CHD, years with disability decreased (-0.8 years, 95% CI: -3.1 to 
1.6, p = 0.50) and DFLE increased (2.7 years, 95% CI: 0.7 to 4.7, p = 0.008), 
stemming from a reduction in the risk of incident disability (relative risk 
ratio: 0.6, 95% CI: 0.4 to 0.8, p = 0.004). The main limitations of the study 
were the self-report of health conditions and the response rate. However, 
inverse probability weights for baseline nonresponse and longitudinal attrition 
were used to ensure population representativeness.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we observed improvements to DFLE between 1991 and 
2011 despite the presence of most health conditions we considered. Attention 
needs to be paid to support and care for people with cognitive impairment who 
had different outcomes to those with physical health conditions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1003936
PMCID: PMC8923437
PMID: 35290368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal’s policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: CB is an Academic 
Editor on PLOS Medicine’s editorial board. FM is a paid statistical consultant 
on PLOS Medicine’s statistical board.421. Soc Sci Med. 2022 Apr;298:114855. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2022.114855. Epub
 2022 Feb 24.

Life expectancies across congressional districts in the United States.

Takai A(1), Kumar A(2), Kim R(3), Subramanian SV(4).

Author information:
(1)Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Turner Fenton Secondary School, Brampton, ON, Canada; Center for Geographic 
Analysis, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(3)Division of Health Policy & Management, College of Health Science, Korea 
University, Seoul, South Korea; Interdisciplinary Program in Precision Public 
Health, Department of Public Health Sciences, Graduate School of Korea 
University, Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address: rocklikim@korea.ac.kr.
(4)Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA; Harvard Center 
for Population and Development Studies, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA. 
Electronic address: svsubram@hsph.harvard.edu.

Examining data on the congressional district level may better align with the 
interests of Members of Congress who have the power to implement federal health 
policies. Despite this importance, measurement of health indicators at the 
congressional district level remains widely understudied. In this study, we 
estimated overall life expectancy and variation within each congressional 
district by computing standard deviations of census tract-level age-specific 
life expectancies for 2010-2015. We found smaller standard deviations in 
congressional districts with higher overall life expectancy at younger ages, but 
the pattern was reversed at older ages.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2022.114855
PMID: 35290786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Glob Health Med. 2022 Feb 28;4(1):1-8. doi: 10.35772/ghm.2021.01120.

AIDS at 40(th): The progress of HIV treatment in Japan.

Oka S(1).

Author information:
(1)AIDS Clinical Center, National Center for Global Health and Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.

Forty years have passed since the first five AIDS cases in Los Angeles were 
reported in 1981. Looking back at the history, these 40 years could be divided 
into 3 phases. During the first 15 years, when there was little efficacious 
therapy against HIV, clinical research was directed to develop diagnosis and 
treatment for opportunistic infections, mainly Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia. 
When combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) became available in 1996, taking 
cART had been troublesome to most patients following 10 years because some of 
them had severe side effects, diet restrictions, high pill burdens, drug 
interactions, etc. It was not easy for patients to keep high adherence and, 
therefore, the virus easily obtained drug resistance. Although the prognosis has 
been dramatically improved, patients had been still living with hard times 
during the second phase. Along with advancement of anti-retroviral drugs that 
have allowed simple treatment possible, their life expectancy has further 
improved and is reaching almost nearly the general population in the following 
15 years. However, some patients have recently faced an additional load to treat 
life-related comorbidities and non-AIDS defining malignancies. The problem is 
that these diseases start to occur in the 40s- or 50s-year-old generations and 
that means HIV-infected persons are suffering from pre-mature aging. AIDS no 
longer signifies death. However, we still have a lot to improve for their 
quality of life.

2022, National Center for Global Health and Medicine.

DOI: 10.35772/ghm.2021.01120
PMCID: PMC8884036
PMID: 35291198

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


423. Glob Health Med. 2022 Feb 28;4(1):9-13. doi: 10.35772/ghm.2021.01109.

Ningen Dock: Japan's unique comprehensive health checkup system for early 
detection of disease.

Lu J(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Examination Center, National Center for Global Health and Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan.

Japan's comprehensive health checkup - Ningen Dock - is a unique system for 
early detection of disease that has developed over the years along with the 
country's universal health insurance system. Ningen Dock is currently offered at 
1,727 facilities nationwide, involving about 3.7 million people annually. The 
development of the comprehensive health checkup system may be one reason for 
Japan's long life expectancy. The major purpose of the comprehensive health 
checkup system is to maintain health in three main ways: early detection of 
cancer, detection of lifestyle-related diseases, and confirmation of health 
status. Here, the history and current status of Ningen Dock in Japan, tests and 
examinations included in the comprehensive health checkup system, the 
effectiveness of those checkups, and their advantages and disadvantages are 
described.

2022, National Center for Global Health and Medicine.

DOI: 10.35772/ghm.2021.01109
PMCID: PMC8884042
PMID: 35291200

Conflict of interest statement: The author has no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


424. Cureus. 2022 Feb 3;14(2):e21857. doi: 10.7759/cureus.21857. eCollection 2022
 Feb.

Assessment of Surgical Outcome in Three- and Four-Part Proximal Humerus Fracture 
Treated With Proximal Humerus Internal Locking System (PHILOS) Plate Versus 
Neer's Prosthesis in Elderly Patients.

Gurnani S(1), Pisal T(2), Phalak MO(1), Chaudhari T(3), Patel S(1), Yadav P(1), 
Mizanur SK(1).

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedics, Dr. D. Y. Patil Medical College, Hospital & Research Centre, 
Pune, IND.
(2)Orthopedics and Traumatology, Spine Surgeon, Dr. D. Y. Patil Medical College, 
Hospital & Research Centre, Pune, IND.
(3)Orthopaedic Surgery, Dr. D. Y. Patil Medical College, Hospital & Research 
Centre, Pune, IND.

BACKGROUND: With an incidence of 50% of humerus fractures, proximal humerus 
fractures (PHFs) can significantly impact one's quality of life. Moreover, 
management of highly comminuted or displaced PHFs poses a significant challenge 
amongst elderly population due to poor bone quality. Prosthetic replacement of 
humeral head or its stabilization using external plates is a commonly employed 
intervention for treating three- and four-part PHFs. Thus, these two methods 
were compared in this study to identify a preferable intervention.
METHODS: Patients were randomly divided into two groups to receive proximal 
humerus internal locking system (PHILOS®, Synthes, Switzerland) plating and 
Neer's hemiarthroplasty. The deltopectoral approach was deployed as the surgical 
method. Their surgical outcome was assessed from functional range of motion 
(ROM) and Constant-Murley scores at regular intervals of three, six, twelve, and 
twenty-four weeks.
RESULTS: Twenty patients were divided into two groups who received PHILOS® 
plating and Neer's hemiarthroplasty, averaged 67.2 years and 72.8 years. The ROM 
pertaining to flexion, extension, abduction, internal rotation, and external 
rotation for individuals with PHILOS® plating was 20%, 12.5%, 14.7%, 11.5%, and 
18.5% higher than those who received Neer's hemiarthroplasty. Moreover, the 
Murley score was also 8.7 units higher for individuals with PHILOS® plating.
CONCLUSIONS: Prognosis following PHILOS® plate osteosynthesis had a better 
overall outcome than hemiarthroplasty with Neer's prosthesis. Although 
hemiarthroplasty yielded a consistent functional outcome, PHILOS® plate 
osteosynthesis tends to restore a greater ROM. Thus, PHILOS® plating is 
recommended as the suitable method to manage three- and four-part PHF for people 
above fifty-five years of age.

Copyright © 2022, Gurnani et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.21857
PMCID: PMC8897720
PMID: 35291533

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


425. Rep Biochem Mol Biol. 2022 Jan;10(4):664-674. doi: 10.52547/rbmb.10.4.664.

Relationship Between IL-2, IL-17 Concentrations, and Serum Creatinine Levels in 
Men with Chronic Kidney Diseases.

Al-Rawi KF(1), Ali HH(1), Guma MA(2), Mohammed Aldahham BJ(2), Tuleab Alaaraji 
SF(3), Al-Ani O(4), Tariq Ali A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, College of Science, University of Anbar, Al-anbar 
Province, Iraq.
(2)Department of Applied Chemistry, College of Applied Sciences, University of 
Anbar, Al-anbar Province, Iraq.
(3)Department of Chemistry, College of Education for pure Science, University of 
Anbar, Al-anbar Province, Iraq.
(4)Yarmouk Academic Hospital, Baghdad, Iraq.
(5)University of Anbar, Al-anbar Province, Iraq.

BACKGROUND: Chronic kidney disease (CKD), is a major public health challenge 
worldwide. It is more prevalent in developed countries compared with the rest of 
the world, due to the higher rates of life expectancy and unhealthy lifestyle 
related factors. This aim of the current study is to evaluate the relationship 
between interleukins IL-2 and IL-17 concentrations and kidney function markers 
in men with CKD.
METHODS: Forty-five men with CKD and seventy controls were enrolled in the 
current study to assess the relationship between interleukin-2 (IL-2), 
interleukin-17 (IL-17), and CKD parameters. Fasting blood samples were collected 
from patients with CKD and their controls at same time. Serum IL-2, and IL-17 
were measured in patients with CKD and their controls, and then the relationship 
between these interleukins and serum creatinine, serum urea, serum uric acid and 
urine albumin were evaluated.
RESULTS: A significant relationship was detected between IL-2 (p< 0.001), IL-17 
(p< 0.001) levels and serum creatinine concentrations. The significant increase 
of IL-2 and IL-17 levels were also paralleled with a significant increase in 
serum urea (p< 0.001), and urine albumin (p< 0.001) concentrations respectively.
CONCLUSION: IL-2 and IL-17 may play a critical role in the pathophysiology of 
CKD. The significant increase of IL-2 and IL-17 is associated with significantly 
high concentrations of creatinine, serum urea and urine albumin suggesting that 
these interleukins may be used as targets for future biomarkers and molecular 
therapy. However, due to limited sample size of the current study, larger 
prospective cohorts are needed to confirm these observations.

DOI: 10.52547/rbmb.10.4.664
PMCID: PMC8903360
PMID: 35291613


426. Sci Rep. 2022 Mar 15;12(1):4436. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-08500-w.

Freeze-thaw cycle frequency affects root growth of alpine meadow through 
changing soil moisture and nutrients.

Man Z(1), Xie C(1), Jiang R(1), Che S(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Design, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China.
(2)School of Design, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China. 
chsq@sjtu.edu.cn.

Alpine meadows grow in alpine regions and play an important role in the 
production and life of alpine regions. As a unique feature of alpine regions, 
freeze-thaw cycles (FTCs) affect the growth of alpine meadows. However, with 
climate change, the change in the freeze-thaw cycle frequency (FTCF) has become 
obvious. These changes affect the content and distribution of soil moisture and 
nutrients, as well as the growth of roots in the alpine meadow. Therefore, based 
on the analysis of FTCF in the Nagqu River Basin, the characteristics of soil 
moisture, nutrients, and alpine meadow roots are analyzed, thus revealing the 
influence mechanism of FTCF on the root growth of alpine meadows. The results 
highlight three major findings. (1) Compared with the low-frequency mode (LFM), 
the moisture at 0-20, 20-40, and 40-60 cm in the high-frequency mode (HFM) has 
decreased by 30.74%, 52.89%, and 47.52%, respectively. Additionally, in HFM the 
contents of soil hydrolysable nitrogen (HN), available K (AK), and microbial 
biomass carbon (MBC) at the same depth are lower than those in LFM. (2) The 
original distribution of soil moisture at 0-60 cm has gradually increased from 
the surface to the bottom. However, with the increase in FTCF, the distribution 
of the soil moisture now means that the soil moisture at the surface (0-20 cm) 
and the deeper layers (40-60 cm) is higher than that in the middle (20-40 cm). 
(3) With the increase in FTCF, the growth mode of alpine meadow roots has 
changed from vertical extension to horizontal divergence; the distribution range 
of roots has changed from 0-40 cm to 0-20 cm; the length, surface area, and 
volume of 0-0.5 mm roots have increased by 20.95 cm, 1.90 cm2, and 0.014 cm3; 
and the corresponding specific gravity has increased by 9.09%, 13.50%, and 
12.14%, respectively. This study provides a theoretical basis for predicting the 
growth mode of alpine meadow roots in the Nagqu River Basin under the influence 
of climate change and provides guidance for protecting the ecology of alpine 
regions and mitigating and solving global climate change.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-022-08500-w
PMCID: PMC8924160
PMID: 35292754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


427. Demography. 2022 Apr 1;59(2):629-652. doi: 10.1215/00703370-9830687.

Life Course Socioeconomic Status and Healthy Longevity in China.

Payne CF(1), Xu KQ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Demography, Research School of Social Sciences, The Australian 
National University, Canberra, Australia.

In 2020, China's population aged 60 or older exceeded 264 million, representing 
25% of the global population in that age-group. Older adults in China 
experienced periods of dramatic political and social unrest in early life, as 
well as economic transformations leading to drastic improvements in living 
standards during adulthood and older age. However, the implications of life 
course socioeconomic status (SES) trajectories for healthy longevity in later 
life have not been systematically studied in China. We utilize data from the 
China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study (CHARLS) to comprehensively 
investigate how early-life conditions and adult SES combine to influence healthy 
longevity in later life. We find that both childhood and adulthood SES are 
associated with late-life health. The largest disparities in life expectancy 
(LE) and disability-free LE are found between those with persistently low SES 
throughout life and those with consistently high SES. At age 45, the gap in 
total LE between the most advantaged and least advantaged groups is six years 
for men and five years for women. Despite China's major policy changes 
prioritizing equity in income and health care in recent decades, our findings 
suggest that dramatic health inequalities among older adults remain. Our 
findings extend the literature on the effect of socioeconomic patterns across 
the life course on gradients in later-life health and highlight continuing 
disparities in healthy longevity among older adults in China.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1215/00703370-9830687
PMID: 35292811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2022 Mar 16;79(4):192. doi: 10.1007/s00018-022-04215-3.

Targeting the E1 ubiquitin-activating enzyme (UBA1) improves 
elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor efficacy towards F508del and rare misfolded 
CFTR mutants.

Borgo C(#)(1), D'Amore C(#)(2), Capurro V(3), Tomati V(3), Sondo E(3), Cresta 
F(4), Castellani C(4), Pedemonte N(#)(5), Salvi M(#)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Padova, Via Ugo Bassi 58/B, 
35131, Padova, Italy. christian.borgo@unipd.it.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Padova, Via Ugo Bassi 58/B, 
35131, Padova, Italy.
(3)UOC Genetica Medica, IRCCS Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Via Gerolamo Gaslini 5, 
16147, Genova, Italy.
(4)Centro Fibrosi Cistica, IRCCS Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Genova, Italy.
(5)UOC Genetica Medica, IRCCS Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Via Gerolamo Gaslini 5, 
16147, Genova, Italy. nicolettapedemonte@gaslini.org.
(6)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Padova, Via Ugo Bassi 58/B, 
35131, Padova, Italy. mauro.salvi@unipd.it.
(#)Contributed equally

The advent of Trikafta (Kaftrio in Europe) (a triple-combination therapy based 
on two correctors-elexacaftor/tezacaftor-and the potentiator ivacaftor) has 
represented a revolution for the treatment of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) 
carrying the most common misfolding mutation, F508del-CFTR. This therapy has 
proved to be of great efficacy in people homozygous for F508del-CFTR and is also 
useful in individuals with a single F508del allele. Nevertheless, the efficacy 
of this therapy needs to be improved, especially in light of the extent of its 
use in patients with rare class II CFTR mutations. Using CFBE41o- cells 
expressing F508del-CFTR, we provide mechanistic evidence that targeting the E1 
ubiquitin-activating enzyme (UBA1) by TAK-243, a small molecule in clinical 
trials for other diseases, boosts the rescue of F508del-CFTR induced by CFTR 
correctors. Moreover, TAK-243 significantly increases the F508del-CFTR 
short-circuit current induced by elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor in 
differentiated human primary airway epithelial cells, a gold standard for the 
pre-clinical evaluation of patients' responsiveness to pharmacological 
treatments. This new combinatory approach also leads to an improvement in CFTR 
conductance on cells expressing other rare CF-causing mutations, including 
N1303K, for which Trikafta is not approved. These findings show that Trikafta 
therapy can be improved by the addition of a drug targeting the misfolding 
detection machinery at the beginning of the ubiquitination cascade and may pave 
the way for an extension of Trikafta to low/non-responding rare misfolded CFTR 
mutants.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-022-04215-3
PMCID: PMC8924136
PMID: 35292885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant financial or 
non-financial interests to disclose.


429. Anim Genet. 2022 Jun;53(3):317-326. doi: 10.1111/age.13189. Epub 2022 Mar
15.

Functional characterization of cAMP signaling of variant porcine MC1R alleles in 
PK15 cells.

Lan J(1), Wang M(1), Qin K(1), Liu X(1), Shi X(1), Sun G(1), Liu X(1), Chen 
Y(1), He Z(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, 510006, China.

The melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R), encoded by the classical extension (E) coat 
color locus, is expressed on the surface of melanocytes and plays a critical 
role in switching melanin synthesis from pheomelanin (red/yellow) to eumelanin 
(black/brown). Different MC1R alleles associated with various coat color 
patterns in pigs have been identified over the past decades. However, functional 
analysis of variant porcine MC1R alleles has not yet been performed. Therefore, 
in this study, we examined the subcellular localization and cyclic adenosine 
monophosphate (cAMP) signaling capability of MC1R variants in porcine kidney 
epithelial cells (PK15) overexpressing different MC1R alleles. Transcriptional 
slippage may partially restore the reading frame of the EP allele, possibly 
accounting for the observed spot phenotype. The A243T substitution in the e 
allele severely disrupted the membrane localization of the MC1R receptor, 
resulting in a severely impaired cAMP signaling capability. Both the V95M and 
L102P substitutions in the ED1 allele may contribute to the constitutively 
active function of MC1R, thus accounting for the dominant black phenotype. The 
D124N substitution in the ED2 allele severely attenuated the cAMP signaling 
capability of MC1R; however, whether this mutation contributes to the distinct 
phenotype of Hampshire pigs requires further investigation. Thus, our results 
provide new insights into the functional characteristics of MC1R variants and 
their roles in porcine coat color formation.

© 2022 Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.

DOI: 10.1111/age.13189
PMID: 35292981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Rejuvenation Res. 2022 Apr;25(2):110-115. doi: 10.1089/rej.2022.0017.

It Is Time to Work on the Extension of Body Growth and Reproductive Stages.

Gu W(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and BME-Campbell Clinic, University of 
Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, Tennessee, USA.
(2)Research Service, Memphis VA Medical Center, Memphis, Tennessee, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Tennessee Health Science 
Center, Memphis, Tennessee, USA.

There are three major changes for the human lifespan in the past half decade: 
the decreased age of sexual maturity, slight increase in age of 
menopause/andropause, and a trend of increase in life expectancy. The ages of 
puberty and menopause are the transitions in life stages, such that early 
puberty leads to loss and late menopause leads to gain in the lifespan. So far, 
the strategies for increased lifespan have been largely focused on the 
postreproductive stage. These approaches are challenging and may at some point 
reach a plateau. It might be interesting to expand this focus to potentially 
delaying the puberty and extending the period of body growth, which might yield 
longer reproductive stages as well as the longer and healthier lifespan.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2022.0017
PMID: 35293249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Acta Clin Belg. 2023 Feb;78(1):16-24. doi: 10.1080/17843286.2022.2053812.
Epub  2022 Mar 16.

Palliative profile, one-year mortality and quality of life in older inpatients 
according to Be-PICT: a multicenter prospective cohort study.

De Brauwer I(1)(2), Henrard S(2)(3), Baeyens H(4), Van Den Noortgate N(5)(6), De 
Saint-Hubert M(2)(7), Piers R(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Cliniques Universitaires Saint-Luc, 
Bruxelles, Belgium.
(2)Institute of Health and Society, UCLouvain, Bruxelles, Belgium.
(3)Louvain Drug Research Institute, UCLouvain, Bruxelles, Belgium.
(4)Department of Geriatric Medicine, AZ Alma Campus Eeklo, Eeklo, Belgium.
(5)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine and Pediatrics, Ghent University Faculty of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, Ghent, Belgium.
(7)Department of Geriatric Medicine, CHU UCL Namur, Yvoir, Namur, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: A palliative care approach (PCA), including advanced care planning 
(ACP), should be considered for patients with limited life expectancy. The 
Belgian Palliative Care Indicators Tool (Be-PICT) has been released to help 
identify patients who may benefit from such approach. This study aimed at 
measuring 1-year mortality and describe the quality of life in older inpatients, 
according to baseline Be-PICT results.
METHODS: Prospective multicentre cohort study in older patients (≥ 75 years) 
admitted at geriatrics and cardiology wards of four Belgian hospitals. The 
palliative profile was defined as a positive Be-PICT.1, defined by the presence 
of its three criteria, i.e. a negative physician's answer to the surprise 
question 'would you be surprised if this patient dies in the 6-12 next months?', 
≥ 1 poor health indicator and ≥ 1 life-limiting condition.
RESULTS: Of the 379 patients (50% aged ≥85 years; 51% female), 52 (14%) 
presented a palliative profile and 83 (23%) died within 1 year. Be-PICT.1 showed 
the following characteristics to predict 1-year mortality: sensitivity 0.54, 
specificity 0.83, positive and negative predictive values 0.48 and 0.86, 
positive and negative likelihood ratios 3.22 and 0.55. The patients with a 
palliative profile were at higher mortality risk (hazard ratio 4.79 p < 0.001) 
and 1-year mortality rate (45%). Not using the SQ allowed to improve sensitivity 
to include a larger number of patients who may benefit from ACP and PCA.
CONCLUSIONS: Be-PICT.1 is a simple case-finding tool to identify older 
inpatients being at high mortality risk and candidates for ACP and PCA.

DOI: 10.1080/17843286.2022.2053812
PMID: 35293853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. J Nutr. 2022 Jul 6;152(7):1597-1610. doi: 10.1093/jn/nxac059.

Sex Differences Across the Life Course: A Focus On Unique Nutritional and Health 
Considerations among Women.

Bailey RL(1), Dog TL(2), Smith-Ryan AE(3), Das SK(4), Baker FC(5), Madak-Erdogan 
Z(6), Hammond BR(7), Sesso HD(8), Eapen A(9), Mitmesser SH(10), Wong A(11), 
Nguyen H(11).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Advancing Health Through Agriculture, Texas A&M, College 
Station, TX, USA.
(2)Healthy Lifestyle Brands, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(3)Department of Exercise and Sport Science, University of North Carolina, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(4)Jean-Mayer USDA Human Nutrition Research Center on Aging, Tufts University, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Center for Health Sciences, SRI International, Menlo Park, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, University of Illinois, 
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, USA.
(7)Behavioral and Brain Sciences Program, Department of Psychology, University 
of Georgia, Athens, GA, USA.
(8)Division of Preventive Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(9)R&D Scientific & Regulatory Affairs-North America, Cargill, Wayzata, MN, USA.
(10)Science & Technology, Pharmavite, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(11)Scientific & Regulatory Affairs, Council for Responsible Nutrition, 
Washington, DC, USA.

In the United States, women, while having a longer life expectancy than men, 
experience a differential risk for chronic diseases and have unique nutritional 
needs based on physiological and hormonal changes across the life span. However, 
much of what is known about health is based on research conducted in men. 
Additional complexity in assessing nutritional needs within gender include the 
variations in genetics, body compositions, hormonal milieus, underlying chronic 
diseases, and medication usage, with this list expanding as we consider these 
variables across the life course. It is clear women experience nutrient 
shortfalls during key periods of their lives, which may differentially impact 
their health. Consequently, as we move into the era of precision nutrition, 
understanding these sex- and gender-based differences may help optimize 
recommendations and interventions chosen to support health and weight 
management. Recently, a scientific conference was convened with content experts 
to explore these topics from a life-course perspective at biological, 
physiological, and behavioral levels. This publication summarizes the 
presentations and discussions from the workshop and provides an overview of 
important nutrition and related lifestyle considerations across the life course. 
The landscape of addressing female-specific nutritional needs continues to grow; 
now more than ever, it is essential to increase our understanding of the 
physiological differences between men and women, and determine how these 
physiological considerations may aid in optimizing nutritional strategies to 
support certain personal goals related to health, quality of life, sleep, and 
exercise performance among women.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
American Society for Nutrition.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/nxac059
PMCID: PMC9258555
PMID: 35294009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Sci Transl Med. 2022 Mar 16;14(636):eabl9945. doi:
10.1126/scitranslmed.abl9945.  Epub 2022 Mar 16.

Treatment of a genetic brain disease by CNS-wide microglia replacement.

Shibuya Y(1)(2), Kumar KK(1)(3), Mader MM(1)(2), Yoo Y(1)(2), Ayala LA(1)(2), 
Zhou M(4), Mohr MA(5), Neumayer G(1)(2), Kumar I(1)(2), Yamamoto R(1)(6), 
Marcoux P(1)(2), Liou B(7), Bennett FC(8), Nakauchi H(1)(6)(9), Sun Y(7)(10), 
Chen X(5), Heppner FL(11)(12)(13)(14)(15), Wyss-Coray T(16)(17), Südhof 
TC(4)(18), Wernig M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine and Department of 
Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 
94305, USA.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA 94305, USA.
(4)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(5)Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(6)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 
94305, USA.
(7)Division of Human Genetics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, 
Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(9)Division of Stem Cell Therapy, Distinguished Professor Unit, The Institute of 
Medical Science, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo 108-8639, Japan.
(10)Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA.
(11)Department of Neuropathology, Cluster of Excellence, NeuroCure, 
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(12)Department of Neuropathology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, corporate 
member of Freie Universität Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, and Berlin 
Institute of Health, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(13)Cluster of Excellence, NeuroCure, Charitéplatz 1, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(14)Berlin Institute of Health (BIH), 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(15)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Berlin, 10117 Berlin, 
Germany.
(16)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(17)Veterans Administration Palo Alto Healthcare System, Palo Alto, CA 94304, 
USA.
(18)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA 94305, USA.

Hematopoietic cell transplantation after myeloablative conditioning has been 
used to treat various genetic metabolic syndromes but is largely ineffective in 
diseases affecting the brain presumably due to poor and variable myeloid cell 
incorporation into the central nervous system. Here, we developed and 
characterized a near-complete and homogeneous replacement of microglia with bone 
marrow cells in mice without the need for genetic manipulation of donor or host. 
The high chimerism resulted from a competitive advantage of scarce donor cells 
during microglia repopulation rather than enhanced recruitment from the 
periphery. Hematopoietic stem cells, but not immediate myeloid or monocyte 
progenitor cells, contained full microglia replacement potency equivalent to 
whole bone marrow. To explore its therapeutic potential, we applied microglia 
replacement to a mouse model for Prosaposin deficiency, which is characterized 
by a progressive neurodegeneration phenotype. We found a reduction of cerebellar 
neurodegeneration and gliosis in treated brains, improvement of motor and 
balance impairment, and life span extension even with treatment started in young 
adulthood. This proof-of-concept study suggests that efficient microglia 
replacement may have therapeutic efficacy for a variety of neurological 
diseases.

DOI: 10.1126/scitranslmed.abl9945
PMCID: PMC9618306
PMID: 35294256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


434. Health Policy Plan. 2022 Sep 13;37(8):1066-1069. doi:
10.1093/heapol/czac026.

Estimating a cost-effectiveness threshold for health care decision-making in 
South Africa-a Commentary.

Barr G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistical Sciences, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South 
Africa.

Comment in
    Health Policy Plan. 2022 Sep 13;37(8):1070-1073.

Comment on
    Health Policy Plan. 2020 Jun 1;35(5):546-555.
    Health Policy Plan. 2022 Jun 28;:

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/czac026
PMID: 35294523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2022 
Apr;65(4):503-510. doi: 10.1007/s00103-022-03517-y. Epub 2022 Mar 16.

[Physical and psychological long-term consequences of diabetes mellitus].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Kulzer B(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Forschungsinstitut der Diabetes-Akademie Bad Mergentheim (FIDAM), 
Theodor-Klotzbücher-Str. 12, 97980, Bad Mergentheim, Deutschland. 
kulzer@fidam.de.
(2)Diabetes-Klinik Bad Mergentheim, Bad Mergentheim, Deutschland. 
kulzer@fidam.de.
(3)Lehrstuhl für klinische Psychologie, Universität Bamberg, Bamberg, 
Deutschland. kulzer@fidam.de.

Despite improvements in the treatment of diabetes and better care conditions, 
those affected still have a significantly increased risk of physical and 
psychological complications and a reduced quality of life compared to the 
general population. About 21% of all deaths in Germany are due to diabetes and 
its complications, and the mortality risk for people with diabetes is more than 
1.5 times higher than for people without diabetes. This review describes the 
prevalence and risk factors for the most common physical and psychological 
complications of diabetes as well as their influences on patients' quality of 
life. Associations between the complications and increased mortality are 
shown.In large intervention studies, the importance of good glucose control - 
especially at the beginning of the disease - has been shown regarding 
a reduction in the mortality rate. Other important influencing factors include 
blood pressure, blood lipids, and smoking. Worldwide study results indicate 
a stable trend about improved life expectancy of people with diabetes in recent 
years. In the future, the positive trend could be continued through better care 
structures and new technologies as well as digital devices in research and 
therapy. With the help of precision medicine, individual risk factors and 
protective factors could be identified to even better prevent the development of 
complications.

Publisher: Trotz Verbesserungen in der Therapie des Diabetes und besseren 
Versorgungbedingungen weisen die Betroffenen aktuell im Vergleich zur 
Allgemeinbevölkerung noch immer ein deutlich erhöhtes Risiko für physische wie 
psychische Folgeerkrankungen sowie eine reduzierte Lebensqualität auf. Etwa 21 % 
aller Todesfälle sind in Deutschland auf Diabetes und seine Folgeerkrankungen 
zurückzuführen, das Mortalitätsrisiko ist für Menschen mit Diabetes um mehr als 
das 1,5-Fache gegenüber Menschen ohne Diabetes erhöht. In dieser Übersicht 
werden die Verbreitung und die Risikofaktoren für die häufigsten körperlichen 
und psychischen Folgen des Diabetes beschrieben sowie deren Einflüsse auf die 
Lebensqualität der Patienten. Zusammenhänge zwischen den Folgeerkrankungen und 
einer erhöhten Mortalität werden aufgezeigt.In großen Interventionsstudien 
konnte die Bedeutung einer guten Glukoseeinstellung – vor allem zu Beginn der 
Erkrankung – in Hinblick auf eine Senkung der Mortalitätsrate gezeigt werden, 
weitere wichtige Einflussfaktoren sind z. B. Blutdruck, Blutfette und Rauchen. 
Weltweite Studienergebnisse deuten auf einen stabilen Trend hinsichtlich einer 
verbesserten Lebenserwartung von Menschen mit Diabetes in den letzten Jahren 
hin. Zukünftig könnte der positive Trend durch bessere Versorgungsstrukturen und 
neue Technologien sowie digitale Anwendungen in der Forschung und Therapie 
fortgesetzt werden. Mithilfe der Präzisionsmedizin könnten individuelle 
Risikofaktoren und protektive Faktoren erkannt werden, um der Entstehung von 
Folgekomplikationen noch besser vorzubeugen.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-022-03517-y
PMCID: PMC8979877
PMID: 35294561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Clin Drug Investig. 2022 Apr;42(4):333-343. doi: 10.1007/s40261-022-01138-6.
 Epub 2022 Mar 16.

Cost-Effectiveness of Bivalent, Quadrivalent, and Nonavalent HPV Vaccination in 
South Africa.

Michaeli DT(1)(2)(3), Stoycheva S(4)(5), Marcus SM(4)(6)(7), Zhang W(4)(8), 
Michaeli JC(#)(9)(8), Michaeli T(#)(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Fifth Department of Medicine, University Hospital Mannheim, Heidelberg 
University, Mannheim, Germany. danielmichaeli@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Personalized Oncology, University Hospital Mannheim, Heidelberg 
University, Mannheim, Germany. danielmichaeli@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Health Policy, London School of Economics and Political 
Science, London, UK. danielmichaeli@yahoo.com.
(4)Department of Health Policy, London School of Economics and Political 
Science, London, UK.
(5)Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Pfizer Inc, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Homerton University Hospital NHS Trust, London, UK.
(7)Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care, School of Clinical Medicine, 
Faculty of Health Science, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South 
Africa.
(8)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Asklepios-Clinic Hamburg-Altona, 
Asklepios Hospital Group, Hamburg, Germany.
(9)Fifth Department of Medicine, University Hospital Mannheim, Heidelberg 
University, Mannheim, Germany.
(10)Department of Personalized Oncology, University Hospital Mannheim, 
Heidelberg University, Mannheim, Germany.
(11)Division of Personalized Medical Oncology, German Cancer Research Center 
(DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: In South Africa, the prevalence of human 
papillomavirus (HPV) and associated diseases, such as cervical cancer and 
genital warts, is among the highest in the world. This study evaluates the 
cost-effectiveness of bivalent, quadrivalent, and nonavalent HPV vaccination for 
9- to 14-year-old girls from the South African healthcare system perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model portraying the natural HPV disease progression from 
high-risk infection to cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) I, CIN II/III, 
or cervical cancer and from low-risk infection to genital warts was built. 
Transition probability, utility, and efficacy data were sourced from 
peer-reviewed literature. Vaccination costs were calculated based on the World 
Health Organization (WHO) guidelines. The model was populated with a cohort of 
520,000 9-year-old girls to calculate incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICER) in South African Rand (R) per quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained 
for each vaccination strategy.
RESULTS: All HPV vaccination strategies dominate the no vaccine strategy. 
Compared with the bivalent vaccine, the nonavalent strategy increases QALYs by 
0.14 and costs by R1793 (ICER: R13,013 per QALY) per person, while the 
quadrivalent vaccination provides -0.02 incremental QALYs and R1748 costs (ICER: 
-R116,397 per QALY). Consequently, at the South African willingness-to-pay 
threshold of R23,630 per QALY, nonavalent vaccination is the preferred strategy, 
with a probability of 90.2%. Scenario analysis demonstrated that results are 
influenced by vaccine coverage, efficacy, and duration of efficacy.
CONCLUSIONS: The introduction of nonavalent for bivalent HPV vaccination is a 
cost-effective intervention in South Africa. HPV vaccination should be part of a 
multifaceted public health strategy entailing screening, condoms, and education 
of all stakeholders to reduce the significant burden of sexual transmitted 
diseases in South Africa. Sex-neutral and catch-up vaccinations are subjects for 
further research.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40261-022-01138-6
PMCID: PMC8989937
PMID: 35294726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Daniel Tobias Michaeli, Sophia Stoycheva, Simon 
Mashudu Marcus, Wenjia Zhang, Julia Caroline Michaeli, and Thomas Michaeli 
declare no conflicts of interest.


437. Lancet. 2022 Apr 2;399(10332):1322-1335. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(21)02868-3.
 Epub 2022 Mar 13.

Progress in health among regions of Ethiopia, 1990-2019: a subnational country 
analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Ethiopia Subnational-Level Disease Burden Initiative Collaborators.

Collaborators: Misganaw A, Naghavi M, Walker A, Mirkuzie AH, Giref AZ, Berheto 
TM, Waktola EA, Kempen JH, Eticha GT, Wolde TK, Deguma D, Abate KH, Abegaz KH, 
Ahmed MB, Akalu Y, Aklilu A, Alemu BW, Asemahagn MA, Awedew AF, Balakrishnan S, 
Bekuma TT, Beyene AS, Beyene MG, Bezabih YM, Birhanu BT, Chichiabellu TY, Dachew 
BA, Dagnew AB, Demeke FM, Demissie GD, Derbew Molla M, Dereje N, Deribe K, Desta 
AA, Eshetu MK, Ferede TY, Gebreyohannes EA, Geremew A, Gesesew HA, Getacher L, 
Glenn SD, Hafebo AS, Hashi A, Hassen HY, Hay SI, Hordofa DF, Huluko DH, Kasa AS, 
Kassahun Azene G, Kebede EM, Kebede HK, Kelkay B, Kidane SZ, Legesse SM, Manamo 
WA, Melaku YAA, Mengesha EW, Mengesha SD, Merie HE, Mersha AM, Mersha AG, 
Mirutse MK, Mohammed AS, Mohammed H, Mohammed S, Netsere HB, Nigatu D, Obsa MS, 
Odo DB, Omer M, Regassa LD, Sahiledengle B, Shaka MF, Shiferaw WS, Sidemo NB, 
Sinke AH, Sintayehu Y, Sorrie MB, Tadesse BT, Tadesse EG, Tamir Z, Tamiru AT, 
Tareke AA, Tefera YG, Tekalegn Y, Tesema AK, Tesema TT, Tesfay FH, Tessema ZT, 
Tilahun T, Tsegaye GW, Tusa BS, Weledesemayat GT, Yazie TS, Yeshitila YG, Yirdaw 
BW, Zegeye DT, Murray CJL, Gebremedhin LT.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2022 Apr 2;399(10332):1283-1284.

BACKGROUND: Previous Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study 
(GBD) studies have reported national health estimates for Ethiopia. Substantial 
regional variations in socioeconomic status, population, demography, and access 
to health care within Ethiopia require comparable estimates at the subnational 
level. The GBD 2019 Ethiopia subnational analysis aimed to measure the progress 
and disparities in health across nine regions and two chartered cities.
METHODS: We gathered 1057 distinct data sources for Ethiopia and all regions and 
cities that included census, demographic surveillance, household surveys, 
disease registry, health service use, disease notifications, and other data for 
this analysis. Using all available data sources, we estimated the 
Socio-demographic Index (SDI), total fertility rate (TFR), life expectancy, 
years of life lost, years lived with disability, disability-adjusted life-years, 
and risk-factor-attributable health loss with 95% uncertainty intervals (UIs) 
for Ethiopia's nine regions and two chartered cities from 1990 to 2019. 
Spatiotemporal Gaussian process regression, cause of death ensemble model, 
Bayesian meta-regression tool, DisMod-MR 2.1, and other models were used to 
generate fertility, mortality, cause of death, and disability rates. The risk 
factor attribution estimations followed the general framework established for 
comparative risk assessment.
FINDINGS: The SDI steadily improved in all regions and cities from 1990 to 2019, 
yet the disparity between the highest and lowest SDI increased by 54% during 
that period. The TFR declined from 6·91 (95% UI 6·59-7·20) in 1990 to 4·43 
(4·01-4·92) in 2019, but the magnitude of decline also varied substantially 
among regions and cities. In 2019, TFR ranged from 6·41 (5·96-6·86) in Somali to 
1·50 (1·26-1·80) in Addis Ababa. Life expectancy improved in Ethiopia by 21·93 
years (21·79-22·07), from 46·91 years (45·71-48·11) in 1990 to 68·84 years 
(67·51-70·18) in 2019. Addis Ababa had the highest life expectancy at 70·86 
years (68·91-72·65) in 2019; Afar and Benishangul-Gumuz had the lowest at 63·74 
years (61·53-66·01) for Afar and 64.28 (61.99-66.63) for Benishangul-Gumuz. The 
overall increases in life expectancy were driven by declines in under-5 
mortality and mortality from common infectious diseases, nutritional deficiency, 
and war and conflict. In 2019, the age-standardised all-cause death rate was the 
highest in Afar at 1353·38 per 100 000 population (1195·69-1526·19). The leading 
causes of premature mortality for all sexes in Ethiopia in 2019 were neonatal 
disorders, diarrhoeal diseases, lower respiratory infections, tuberculosis, 
stroke, HIV/AIDS, ischaemic heart disease, cirrhosis, congenital defects, and 
diabetes. With high SDIs and life expectancy for all sexes, Addis Ababa, Dire 
Dawa, and Harari had low rates of premature mortality from the five leading 
