(3)Department of Nutrition and Movement Sciences - School of Nutrition and 
Translational Research in Metabolism (NUTRIM) - Faculty of Health, Medicine and 
Life Sciences - Maastricht University, PO Box 616, 6200, MD, Maastricht, the 
Netherlands; Department of Epidemiology - Care and Public Health Research 
Institute (CAPHRI) - Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences - Maastricht 
University, PO Box 616, 6200, MD, Maastricht, the Netherlands. Electronic 
address: bart.bongers@maastrichtuniversity.nl.
(4)Department of Surgery - Maastricht University Medical Centre +, PO Box 5800, 
6202, AZ, Maastricht, the Netherlands; Department of Surgery - School of 
Nutrition and Translational Research in Metabolism (NUTRIM) - Faculty of Health, 
Medicine and Life Sciences - Maastricht University, PO Box 616, 6200, MD, 
Maastricht, the Netherlands. Electronic address: lps.stassen@mumc.nl.
(5)Department of Surgery - Maastricht University Medical Centre +, PO Box 5800, 
6202, AZ, Maastricht, the Netherlands; Department of Surgery - School for 
Oncology and Developmental Biology (GROW) - Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life 
Sciences - Maastricht University, PO Box 616, 6200, MD, Maastricht, the 
Netherlands. Electronic address: tim.lubbers@mumc.nl.
(6)Top Sector Life Sciences and Health (Health∼Holland), Wilhelmina van 
Pruisenweg 104, 2595, AN, The Hague, the Netherlands; Department of 
Anaesthesiology - Erasmus Medical Centre, PO Box 2040, 3000, CA, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands. Electronic address: meeteren@health-holland.com.

Suboptimal quality of feasibility assessments might partially explain 
inconsistencies observed in the effectiveness of exercise prehabilitation before 
colorectal cancer (CRC) surgery. This systematic review aimed to assess the 
reporting quality and clinical generalizability of feasibility outcomes in 
feasibility studies addressing exercise prehabilitation before CRC surgery. 
PubMed/Medline, Embase, Cochrane, and CINAHL were searched to identify all 
feasibility studies focussing on exercise prehabilitation in CRC surgery. 
Reporting quality was assessed using the Thabane et al. checklist and the 
Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials extension for feasibility studies. 
Clinical generalizability was evaluated by appraising patient participation in 
all steps of the study and intervention. Twelve studies were included. The main 
feasibility outcome in all studies was adherence to the intervention by the 
study sample. Based on adherence, 10 studies (83%) concluded exercise 
prehabilitation to be feasible. Six studies (50%) reported all details to assess 
patient participation showing retention rates between 18.4% and 58.2%, which was 
caused by non-participation and drop-out. Three feasibility studies (25%) 
discussed patient-reported barriers to participation and five additional studies 
(41%) described potential selection bias. Four studies (33%) reported lessons 
learned to solve issues hampering feasibility and clinical generalizability. 
Results suggest that true feasibility of exercise prehabilitation before CRC 
surgery remains questionable due to poor reporting quality, insufficient clarity 
regarding the representativeness of the study sample for the target population, 
and limited attention for clinical generalizability. Feasibility of exercise 
prehabilitation might be improved by offering supervised community- or 
home-based interventions tailored to the physical and mental abilities of the 
patient.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2022.04.012
PMID: 35491361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


94. Clin Transl Radiat Oncol. 2022 Apr 20;35:1-8. doi:
10.1016/j.ctro.2022.04.006.  eCollection 2022 Jul.

Irradiation of localized prostate cancer in the elderly: A systematic literature 
review.

Marotte D(1), Chand-Fouche ME(1), Boulahssass R(2), Hannoun-Levi JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Antoine Lacassagne Cancer Center, 
University of Côte d'Azur, 33 avenue Valombrose, 06189 Nice Cedex 2, Nice, 
France.
(2)Geriatric Coordination Unit for Geriatric Oncology (UCOG) PACA Est, CHU de 
NICE, University of Cote d'Azur, Oncoage Nice, France.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2022 Sep;208(3):713-716.

PURPOSE: To analyze the literature that addresses radiation therapy for 
intermediate and high-risk prostate cancer (PC) in the elderly.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A PubMed literature search was conducted including 
articles from 01/01/2000 to 30/06/21, with the following keywords: PC, 
radiotherapy/brachytherapy and elderly. The analysis mainly focused on the issue 
of under-treatment in the elderly and the benefit/risk balance of irradiation.
RESULTS: Of the 176 references analyzed, 24 matched the selection criteria. The 
definition of "elderly patient" varied from 70 to 80 years. The analysis was 
impacted by the inhomogeneous primary end points used in each cohort. Age was 
often an obstacle to radical treatment, with a subsequent risk of 
under-treatment, particularly in patients with a poorer prognosis. However, 
comparable elderly oncological outcomes were compared to younger patients, both 
with external beam radiotherapy alone or combined with brachytherapy boost. Late 
toxicity rates are low and most often comparable to younger populations. 
However, a urinary over- toxicity was observed in the super-elderly (>80 years) 
after brachytherapy boost. The use of ADT should be considered in light of 
comorbidities, and may even be deleterious in some patients.
CONCLUSION: Due to the increase in life expectancy, the management of PC in the 
elderly is a challenge for patients, clinicians and health insurance payers. 
Except for unfit men, elderly patients remain candidates for optimal curative 
treatment (i.e. regardless of age) after oncogeriatric assessment. More solid 
data from prospective trials conducted specially in this population will provide 
better guidance in our daily clinical practice.

© 2022 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctro.2022.04.006
PMCID: PMC9046879
PMID: 35492872

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


95. Front Public Health. 2022 Apr 15;10:789456. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.789456. 
eCollection 2022.

A Comprehensive Evaluation of Health-Related Life Quality Assessment Through 
Head and Neck, Prostate, Breast, Lung, and Skin Cancer in Adults.

Jalili S(1), Ghasemi Shayan R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Technology, Islamic Azad University of Sarab, Sarab, 
Iran.
(2)Department of Radiology, Paramedical Faculty, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.

Health assessment data assists the well-being and patient care teams' process in 
drawing up a care and assistance plan and comprehending the requirements of the 
patient. Comprehensive and precise data about the Quality of Life of cancer 
patients play a significant part in the development and organization of cancer 
patient care. Quality of Life has been used to mean a variety of various things, 
such as health situation, physical function, symptoms, psychosocial 
modification, well-being, enjoyment of life, and happiness. Chronic diseases 
such as cancer are among the disorders that severely affect people's health and 
consequently their Quality of Life. Cancer patients experience a range of 
symptoms, including pain and various physical and mental conditions that 
negatively affect their Quality of Life. In this article, we examined cancer and 
the impact that this disease can have on the Quality of Life of cancer patients. 
The cancers examined in this article include head and neck, prostate, breast, 
lung, and skin cancers. We also discussed health assessment and the importance 
and purpose of studying patients' Quality of Life, especially cancer patients. 
The various signs and symptoms of the disease that affect the Quality of Life of 
patients were also reviewed.

Copyright © 2022 Jalili and Ghasemi Shayan.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.789456
PMCID: PMC9051448
PMID: 35493355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


96. SSM Popul Health. 2022 Apr 1;18:101089. doi: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2022.101089. 
eCollection 2022 Jun.

The impact pathways of environmental, social, and behavioural factors on healthy 
ageing for urban dwellers aged 85+: Longitudinal study of the Tokyo Oldest Old 
Survey on Total Health (TOOTH).

Yoshida N(1), Arai Y(2), Takayama M(3), Abe Y(2), Oguma Y(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Health Management, Keio University, 4411 Endo, Fujisawa, 
Kanagawa, 252-0883, Japan.
(2)Centre for Supercentenarian Medical Research, Keio University School of 
Medicine, 35, Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 160-8582, Japan.
(3)Department of Foreign Language and Liberal Arts, Faculty of Science and 
Technology, Keio University, 4-1-1 Hiyoshi, Kohoku-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa, 
223-8521, Japan.
(4)Sports Medicine Research Centre, Keio University, 4-1-1 Hiyoshi, Kohoku-ku, 
Yokohama, Kanagawa, 223-0061, Japan.

In the context of global population ageing and concentration in cities, the 
population aged 80 and over (80+) is growing rapidly. Japan has the fastest 
ageing population and longest healthy average life expectancy, while health 
decline becomes pronounced and care needs increase in the 85+ age group post the 
'average life expectancy'. The healthy ageing of older urban community dwellers 
is a pressing issue in world initiatives for sustainable urbanisation. However, 
for the 85+ age group, less is known about how promoting/inhibiting factors and 
their pathways influence healthy ageing, and related longitudinal studies remain 
insufficient. Using data from a longitudinal cohort study conducted from 
2008-2009 to 2014-2015 among independent dwellers aged 85+ in central Tokyo 
(men = 203, women = 232), this study analysed the impact pathways of 
environmental, social, and behavioural factors on health and survival to explore 
promoters and potential risks on healthy ageing by gender, with multi-group 
structural equation modelling (SEM) and Bayesian SEM. For both genders, there 
was a positive chained pathway starting from friends as facilitators through 
positive interactions between 'social participation' and 'active behaviour' to 
'ageing-related health'. Additionally, their personal networks were small, 
suggesting that men with family-centred networks and women with 
non-family-centred networks require different approaches and supports. 
Implications of the results are discussed, and an organised social watch and 
support system, which becomes more important in the 'new normal' for urban 
dwellers aged 85+, is recommended.

© 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2022.101089
PMCID: PMC9046878
PMID: 35493406

Conflict of interest statement: None.


97. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2022 Apr 12;12:861053. doi: 
10.3389/fcimb.2022.861053. eCollection 2022.

Global Burden, Incidence and Disability-Adjusted Life-Years for Dermatitis: A 
Systematic Analysis Combined With Socioeconomic Development Status, 1990-2019.

Xue Y(1)(2), Bao W(1)(2), Zhou J(2), Zhao QL(3), Hong SZ(4), Ren J(5), Yang 
BC(4), Wang P(1)(2), Yin B(1)(2), Chu CC(2)(6), Liu G(3), Jia CY(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Burns and Plastic and Wound Repair Surgery, Xiang'an Hospital 
of Xiamen University, School of Medicine, Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.
(2)School of Medicine, Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Vaccinology and Molecular Diagnostics and 
Center for Molecular Imaging and Translational Medicine, School of Public 
Health, Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.
(4)Division of Plastic Surgery, Zhongshan Hospital Xiamen University, Xiamen, 
China.
(5)Department of Dermatology, Zhongshan Hospital, Xiamen University, Xiamen, 
China.
(6)Eye Institute of Xiamen University, Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of 
Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.

BACKGROUND: Dermatitis is an important global health problem that not only 
affects social interaction and physical and mental health but also causes 
economic burden. Health problems or distress caused by dermatitis may be easily 
overlooked, and relevant epidemiological data are limited. Therefore, a better 
understanding of the burden of dermatitis is necessary for developing global 
intervention strategies.
METHODS: All data on dermatitis, including atopic dermatitis (AD), contact 
dermatitis (CD) and seborrhoeic dermatitis (SD), were obtained from the Global 
Burden of Disease 2019 (GBD2019) database. The extracted age-standardized 
incidence rates (ASIR) and disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) rates (ASDR) 
data were analysed by stratification, including by sex, country or region, and 
sociodemographic index (SDI) indicators. Finally, we analysed the correlation 
between the global burden of dermatitis and socioeconomic development status.
RESULTS: According to the GBD 2019 estimate, the ASIR and ASDR for the three 
major types of dermatitis in 2019 were 5244.3988 (95% CI 4551.7244-5979.3176) 
per 100,000 person-years and 131.6711 (95% CI 77.5876-206.8796) per 100,000 
person-years. The ASIR and ASDR of atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis and 
seborrhoeic dermatitis are: Incidence (95%CI,per 100,000 person-years), 327.91 
(312.76-343.67), 3066.04 (2405.38-3755.38), 1850.44 (1706.25- 1993.74); DALYs 
(95%CI, per 100,000 person-years), 99.69 (53.09-167.43), 28.06 (17.62-41.78), 
3.93 (2.24-6.25). In addition, among the three dermatitis types, the greatest 
burden was associated with AD. According to the ASDR from 1990 to 2019, the 
burden of dermatitis has exhibited a slow downward trend in recent years. In 
2019, the ASIR showed that the USA had the greatest burden, while the ASDR 
showed that Asian countries (such as Japan, Mongolia, Kazakhstan, and 
Uzbekistan) and some European countries (France, Estonia) had the greatest 
burden. According to SDI stratification and the three major dermatitis types, 
high ASIR and ASDR corresponded to high SDI areas (especially for AD).
CONCLUSION: The burden of dermatitis is related to socioeconomic development 
status, especially for AD, which is positively correlated with the SDI. The 
results based on GBD2019 data are valuable for formulating policy, preventing 
and treating dermatitis and reducing the global burden of dermatitis.

Copyright © 2022 Xue, Bao, Zhou, Zhao, Hong, Ren, Yang, Wang, Yin, Chu, Liu and 
Jia.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2022.861053
PMCID: PMC9039287
PMID: 35493737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


98. Aging Pathobiol Ther. 2020;2(3):126-133. doi: 10.31491/apt.2020.09.028.

Thioredoxin and aging: What have we learned from the survival studies?

Roman MG(1), Flores LC(1), Cunningham GM(1), Cheng C(1), Allen C(1), Hubbard 
GB(1)(2), Bai Y(3), Saunders TL(4), Ikeno Y(1)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies,The University of Texas 
Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Cell Systems & Anatomy, The University of Texas Health Science 
Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(4)Transgenic Animal Model Core, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(5)Geriatric Research and Education Clinical Center, Audie L. Murphy VA 
Hospital, South Texas Veterans Health Care System, San Antonio, TX, USA.

Our laboratory has conducted the first systematic survival studies to examine 
the biological effects of the antioxidant protein thioredoxin (Trx) on aging and 
age-related pathology. Our studies with C57BL/6 mice overexpressing Trx1 
[Tg(act-TRX1)+/0 and Tg(TXN)+/0) demonstrated a slight extension in early 
lifespan compared to wild-type (WT) mice; however, no significant effects were 
observed in the later part of life. Overexpression of Trx2 in male C57BL/6 mice 
[Tg(TXN2)+/0] demonstrated a slightly extended lifespan compared to WT mice. The 
pathology results from two lines of Trx1 transgenic mice showed a slightly 
higher incidence of age-related neoplastic diseases compared to WT mice, and a 
slight increase in the severity of lymphoma, a major neoplastic disease, was 
observed in Trx2 transgenic mice. Together these studies indicate that Trx 
overexpression in one compartment of the cell (cytosol or mitochondria alone) 
has marginal beneficial effects on lifespan. On the other hand, down-regulation 
of Trx in either the cytosol (Trx1KO) or mitochondria (Trx2KO) showed no 
significant changes in lifespan compared to WT mice, despite several changes in 
pathophysiology of these knockout mice. When we examined the synergetic effects 
of overexpressing Trx1 and Trx2, TXNTg x TXN2Tg mice showed a significantly 
shorter lifespan with accelerated cancer development compared to WT mice. These 
results suggest that synergetic effects of Trx overexpression in both the 
cytosol and mitochondria on aging are deleterious and the development of 
age-related cancer is accelerated. On the other hand, we have recently found 
that down-regulation of Trx in both the cytosol and mitochondria in Trx1KO x 
Trx2KO mice has beneficial effects on aging. The results generated from our lab 
along with our ongoing study using Trx1KO x Trx2KO mice could elucidate the key 
pathways (i.e., apoptosis and autophagy) that prevent accumulation of damaged 
cells and genomic instability leading to reduced cancer formation.

DOI: 10.31491/apt.2020.09.028
PMCID: PMC9049237
PMID: 35493763

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


99. RSC Adv. 2020 Feb 14;10(12):6919-6926. doi: 10.1039/c9ra09923a. eCollection
2020  Feb 13.

A siramesine-loaded metal organic framework nanoplatform for overcoming 
multidrug resistance with efficient cancer cell targeting.

Liu J(1), Tang M(1), Zhou Y(2), Long Y(1), Cheng Y(2), Zheng H(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Luminescent and Real-Time Analytical Chemistry (Southwest 
University), Ministry of Education, College of Chemistry and Chemical 
Engineering, Southwest University Chongqing 400715 P. R. China 
zhenghz@swu.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University Chongqing 400010 P. R. China.

Cancer is the leading cause of death and the most important obstacle to 
increasing life expectancy. With the sophisticated design and research of 
anticancer drugs, multidrug resistance to chemotherapy has become more and more 
common. After the emergence of multidrug resistance, the development of a new 
drug is beset with difficulties. The repurposing of non-anticancer drugs is thus 
a timely strategy for cancer therapy. Here, we highlight the potential of 
repurposing siramesine, a central nervous system drug for antitumor research and 
we construct a metal organic framework-based nanoplatform for effective 
intracellular accumulation and pH-response siramesine release. The released drug 
induces lysosome membrane permeabilization, leading to lysosomal cathepsins 
leakage and then results in cell apoptosis. Due to the modification of folic 
acids, the constructed drug delivery nanosystem shows good biocompatibility and 
efficient cancer cell targeting. Importantly, the drug delivery system shows 
enhanced anticancer efficacy in vitro, which not only effectively kills cancer 
cells but also kills multidrug resistant cells. Thus, the drug delivery 
nanosystem constructed in this study is thought to become a promising anticancer 
agent for cancer therapy and even overcoming multidrug resistance, which 
provides good prospects for biomedical applications.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1039/c9ra09923a
PMCID: PMC9049735
PMID: 35493908

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declare that they have no 
competing interests.


100. Gerontol Geriatr Med. 2022 Apr 21;8:23337214221095705. doi: 
10.1177/23337214221095705. eCollection 2022 Jan-Dec.

Addressing Online Health Privacy Risks for Older Adults: A Perspective on 
Ethical Considerations and Recommendations.

Friedman AB(1)(2), Pathmanabhan C(1), Glicksman A(3), Demiris G(4), Cappola 
AR(1), McCoy MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 
USA.
(2)Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(3)Research Department, New Courtland, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)School of Nursing, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

The rise in online health information seeking among older adults promises 
significant benefits but also presents potentially serious privacy risks. In 
light of these risks, we argue that ongoing research and advocacy aimed at 
promoting online health information seeking among older adults must be coupled 
with efforts to identify and address threats to their online privacy. We first 
detail how internet users reveal sensitive health information to third parties 
through seemingly innocuous web browsing. We then describe ethical concerns 
raised by the inadvertent disclosure of health information, which include the 
potential for dignitary harms, subjective injuries, online health scams, and 
discrimination. After reviewing ways in which existing privacy laws fail to meet 
the needs of older adults, we provide recommendations for individual and 
collective action to protect the online privacy of older adults.

© The Author(s) 2022.

DOI: 10.1177/23337214221095705
PMCID: PMC9039446
PMID: 35493968

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interests: The 
author(s) declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: McCoy is an 
uncompensated member of the University of Pennsylvania’s Data Ethics Working 
group, which is funded in part by industry gifts to the university.


101. Front Oncol. 2022 Apr 14;12:827028. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2022.827028.
eCollection  2022.

Time Trends and Income Inequalities in Cancer Incidence and Cancer-Free Life 
Expectancy - a Cancer Site-Specific Analysis of German Health Insurance Data.

Tetzlaff F(1), Hoebel J(2), Epping J(1)(3), Geyer S(1)(3), Golpon H(3)(4), 
Tetzlaff J(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Sociology Unit, Hannover Medical School, Hanover, Germany.
(2)Division of Social Determinants of Health, Robert Koch Institute, Berlin, 
Germany.
(3)Comprehensive Cancer Center Hannover, Hannover Medical School, Hanover, 
Germany.
(4)Department of Pneumology, Hannover Medical School, Hanover, Germany.

Cancer represents a major burden of morbidity and mortality globally. So far, 
however, little is known on time trends and inequalities in the lengths of life 
spent free of any cancer. This study steps into this gap by analyzing time 
trends and income inequalities in cancer-free life expectancy (CFLE). For this 
retrospective cohort study, data of a large German health insurer were used (N = 
3,405,673individuals, 2006-2018). Income inequalities were assessed using 
individual income (<60% of German average income (GAI) and ≥60% of GAI). Trends 
in incidence risks were analysed employing proportional-hazard regression models 
by splitting the observation time into three periods of 52 months. Trends in 
CFLE in total and for the most common site-specific cancers were calculated 
based on multiple decrement life tables. Incidence rates declined in almost all 
cancers and CFLE increased substantially over time (49.1 (95% CI 48.8-49.4) to 
51.9 (95% CI 51.6-52.2) years for men, 53.1 (95% CI 52.7-53.5) to 55.4 (95% CI 
55.1-55.8) years for women at age 20 for total cancer) and income groups. 
Considerable income inequalities in cancer risks were evident in both sexes, but 
were more pronounced in men (total cancer HR 0.86 (95% CI 0.85-0.87)), with 
higher-income individuals having lower risks. The highest income inequalities 
were found in colon (HR 0.90 (95% CI 0.87-0.93)), stomach (HR 0.78 (95% CI 
0.73-0.84)), and lung cancer (HR 0.58 (95% CI 0.56-0.60)) in men. A reverse 
gradient was found for skin (HR 1.39 (95% CI 1.30-1.47) men; HR 1.27 (95% CI 
1.20-1.35) women) and prostate cancer (HR 1.13 (95% CI 1.11-1.15)). The 
proportion of CFLE in total life expectancy declined for lung, skin and cervical 
cancer in women, indicating a relative shortening of lifetime spent cancer-free. 
In contrast, increasing proportions were found in breast and prostate cancer. To 
our knowledge, this is the first study analysing trends and income inequalities 
in CFLE. The life span free of cancer increased clearly over time. However, not 
all cancer types contributed equally to this positive development. Income 
inequalities persisted or tended to widen, which underlines the need for 
increased public health efforts in socioeconomically vulnerable groups.

Copyright © 2022 Tetzlaff, Hoebel, Epping, Geyer, Golpon and Tetzlaff.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2022.827028
PMCID: PMC9046985
PMID: 35494022

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


102. Sarcoidosis Vasc Diffuse Lung Dis. 2022;39(1):e2022002. doi: 
10.36141/svdld.v39i1.11967. Epub 2022 Mar 31.

Cardiac sarcoidosis in an adult person with cystic fibrosis: a case report.

FitzMaurice TS(1)(2), Cooper RM(3), Snowdon R(3), Arzanauskaite M(4)(5), 
Nazareth D(1)(2), Walshaw M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Adult CF Unit, Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital, Liverpool, UK.
(2)University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital, Liverpool, UK.
(4)Department of Radiology, Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital, Liverpool, UK.
(5)Cardiovascular Research Center-ICCC, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, 
Barcelona, Spain.

Cardiac sarcoidosis and cystic fibrosis (CF) are both rare conditions and their 
co-existence has not previously been noted in adults. For the first time we 
report a case of isolated cardiac sarcoidosis in a woman with CF, and discuss 
the possible combined aetiological factors. As the life expectancy of people 
with CF continues to increase, clinicians should be aware of the emergence of 
concomitant inflammatory conditions typically diagnosed in adulthood, and the 
diagnostic challenges this may present.

Copyright: © 2021 SARCOIDOSIS VASCULITIS AND DIFFUSE LUNG DISEASES.

DOI: 10.36141/svdld.v39i1.11967
PMCID: PMC9007026
PMID: 35494166

Conflict of interest statement: Each author declares that he or she has no 
commercial associations (e.g. consultancies, stock ownership, equity interest, 
patent/licensing arrangement etc.) that might pose a conflict of interest in 
connection with the submitted article.


103. J Asthma Allergy. 2022 Apr 21;15:505-515. doi: 10.2147/JAA.S363398.
eCollection  2022.

Efficacy and Safety of Omalizumab Treatment Over a 16-Year Follow-Up: When a 
Clinical Trial Meets Real-Life.

Menzella F(1), Fontana M(1), Contoli M(2), Ruggiero P(1), Galeone C(1), 
Capobelli S(1), Simonazzi A(1), Catellani C(1), Scelfo C(1), Castagnetti C(1), 
Livrieri F(1), Facciolongo N(1).

Author information:
(1)Pulmonology Unit, Arcispedale Santa Maria Nuova, Azienda USL - IRCCS di 
Reggio Emilia, Reggio Emilia, Italy.
(2)Respiratory Section, Department of Translational Medicine, University of 
Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy.

PURPOSE: Treatment of severe asthma has made great strides thanks to rapid 
progress in understanding immune response and inflammatory pathways. This led to 
the advent of the first biologic for severe allergic asthma (SAA), omalizumab. 
Although the long-term efficacy and safety of omalizumab has been confirmed, 
increasingly longer follow-up data can further reinforce this evidence and 
potentially provide new ones, for example on any loss of efficacy or the 
appearance of unexpected side effects. This study reports omalizumab 
treatment-related outcomes after 16 years of follow-up.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this real-life retrospective study, an extension of a 
previous 9-year follow-up study on patients initially recruited in a clinical 
trial, we enrolled 8 adult patients with SAA followed-up from November 2005 to 
December 2021. Study subjects were selected based on omalizumab eligibility 
criteria.
RESULTS: Exacerbation rate significantly decreased from 3.6 ± 2.1 events in year 
before index date to 0.1 ± 0.4 after 32 weeks of treatment (p < 0.0001). Mean 
annual number of mild-to-moderate exacerbations at 16 years was 0.88 compared 
with 1.8 in the year before the index date and 1.1 at 32 weeks. No 
hospitalizations were documented during the 16-year follow-up compared to 0.3 
hospitalizations/patient in the year before the index date. Respiratory function 
also progressively and significantly improved. Regarding patient-reported 
outcomes (PROs), The AQLQ and ACT significantly improved from baseline 
throughout the follow-up, particularly up to 9 years of follow-up. During the 
study, an overall reduction in doses of asthma medications was observed, with a 
significant OCS-sparing effect.
CONCLUSION: Our study, the longest clinical follow-up on patients treated with 
anti-IgE, confirms and amplifies the results of the studies carried out so far, 
as they are maintained over a very long interval of time without drops in 
efficacy without any type of side effect.

© 2022 Menzella et al.

DOI: 10.2147/JAA.S363398
PMCID: PMC9039243
PMID: 35495876

Conflict of interest statement: Francesco Menzella has received research grants 
from AstraZeneca, Novartis, and Sanofi; lecture fees and advisory board fees 
from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Chiesi, GSK, Mundipharma, Novartis, and 
Sanofi. Marco Contoli reports grants and/or personal fees from GlaxoSmithKline, 
Chiesi, AstraZeneca, Alk Abello, and Boehringer Ingelheim, outside the submitted 
work. The other authors have no conflicts of interest to declare in this work.


104. Front Psychol. 2022 Apr 14;13:766890. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.766890. 
eCollection 2022.

Development and Psychometric Properties of the DASS-Youth (DASS-Y): An Extension 
of the Depression Anxiety Stress Scales (DASS) to Adolescents and Children.

Szabo M(1), Lovibond PF(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, The University of Sydney, Darlington, NSW, Australia.
(2)School of Psychology, University of New South Wales, Kensington, NSW, 
Australia.

The Depression Anxiety Stress Scales (DASS; Lovibond and Lovibond, 1995b) is a 
set of psychometrically sound scales that is widely used to assess negative 
emotional states in adults. In this project, we developed the Depression Anxiety 
Stress Scales for Youth (DASS-Y) and tested its psychometric properties. Data 
were collected from 2,121 Australian children and adolescents aged 7-18 (61% 
female). This sample was split randomly into a calibration group (n = 1075, 61% 
female) and a cross-validation group (n = 1046, 60% female). First, we used 
Confirmatory Factor Analysis on the calibration group to test the 3-factor DASS 
model on 40 items we had developed in previous exploratory studies. We then 
selected the best-performing 21 items based on both statistical and theoretical 
considerations, guided by the structure and item content of the adult DASS. We 
cross-validated this new 21-item model in the second half of the sample. Results 
indicated good fit for the final 21-item 3-factor DASS model in both groups of 
children and adolescents. Multiple regression analyses showed that when scores 
on the other DASS-Y scales were held constant, the DASS-Y Depression scale had a 
strong negative relationship with positive affect and life satisfaction, the 
DASS-Y Anxiety scale was strongly associated with physiological hyperarousal, 
and the DASS-Y Stress scale was associated with excessive worrying. However, the 
relationship between Stress and worrying was only evident from age 10 onwards. 
Our results show that the core symptoms that define depression, anxiety and 
stress in children and adolescents are similar to those previously found in 
adults. The DASS-Y is a public domain instrument that we hope will prove useful 
in both research and clinical contexts.

Copyright © 2022 Szabo and Lovibond.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.766890
PMCID: PMC9047499
PMID: 35496218

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


105. Lancet Reg Health Eur. 2022 Apr 21;18:100390. doi:
10.1016/j.lanepe.2022.100390.  eCollection 2022 Jul.

Efficacy of the eHealth application Oncokompas, facilitating incurably ill 
cancer patients to self-manage their palliative care needs: A randomized 
controlled trial.

Schuit AS(1)(2), Holtmaat K(1)(2), Lissenberg-Witte BI(3), Eerenstein SEJ(4), 
Zijlstra JM(5), Eeltink C(5), Becker-Commissaris A(6), van Zuylen L(7), van 
Linde ME(7), Menke-van der Houven van Oordt CW(7), Sommeijer DW(7)(8), Verbeek 
N(9), Bosscha K(10), Tewarie RN(11), Sedee RJ(12), de Bree R(13), de Graeff 
A(14), de Vos F(14), Cuijpers P(1), Verdonck-de Leeuw IM(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical, Neuro and Developmental Psychology, Faculty of 
Behavioral and Movement Sciences, Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, 
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(2)Cancer Center Amsterdam (CCA), Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Epidemiology and Data Science, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Otolaryngology - Head and Neck 
Surgery, Cancer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(5)Department of Hematology, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Cancer 
Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Pulmonary Diseases, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, Cancer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(7)Department of Medical Oncology, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Cancer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine, Flevo Hospital, Almere, the Netherlands.
(9)Department of Oncology, St. Antonius hospital, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(10)Department of Surgery, Jeroen Bosch hospital, Den Bosch, the Netherlands.
(11)Department of Neurosurgery, Haaglanden MC, The Hague, the Netherlands.
(12)Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Haaglanden MC, The 
Hague, the Netherlands.
(13)Department of Head and Neck Surgical Oncology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, University Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(14)Department of Medical Oncology, Cancer Center, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, University Utrecht, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Many patients with incurable cancer have symptoms affecting their 
health-related quality of life. The eHealth application 'Oncokompas' supports 
patients to take an active role in managing their palliative care needs, to 
reduce symptoms and improve health-related quality of life (HRQOL). This 
randomized controlled trial was conducted to determine the efficacy of 
Oncokompas compared to care as usual among incurably ill cancer patients with a 
life expectancy of more than three months.
METHODS: Patients were recruited in six hospitals in the Netherlands. Eligible 
patients were randomly assigned to the intervention (direct access to 
Oncokompas) or the control group (access to Oncokompas after three months). The 
primary outcome measure was patient activation (i.e., patients' knowledge, 
skills and confidence for self-management). Secondary outcomes were general 
self-efficacy and HRQOL. Measures were assessed at baseline, two weeks after 
randomization, and three months after the baseline measurement. Linear mixed 
models were used to compare longitudinal changes between both groups from 
baseline to the three-month follow-up.
FINDINGS: In total, 219 patients were eligible of which 138 patients completed 
the baseline questionnaire (response rate 63%), and were randomized to the 
intervention (69) or control group (69). There were no significant differences 
between the intervention and control group over time in patient activation 
(estimated difference in change T0-T2; 1·8 (90% CI: -1·0 to 4·7)), neither in 
general self-efficacy and HRQOL. Of the patients in the intervention group who 
activated their account, 74% used Oncokompas as intended. The course of patient 
activation, general self-efficacy, and HRQOL was not significantly different 
between patients who used Oncokompas as intended versus those who did not.
INTERPRETATION: Among incurably ill cancer patients with a life expectancy of 
more than three months and recruited in the hospital setting, Oncokompas did not 
significantly improve patient activation, self-efficacy, or HRQOL.
FUNDING: ZonMw, Netherlands Organization for Health Research and Development 
(844001105).

© 2022 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.lanepe.2022.100390
PMCID: PMC9046636
PMID: 35496496

Conflict of interest statement: IVdL reports grants from the Netherlands 
Organization for Health Research and Development (ZonMw), the Dutch Cancer 
Society (KWF Kankerbestrijding), Bristol Myers Squibb, Danone Ecofund/Nutricia. 
ABC reports grants from Roche. FdV reports grants from Foundation 
STOPbraintumors.org and AbbVIe, BMS, Novartis, EORTC, Vaximm and BioClin 
Therapeutics. FdV reports participation on a DSMB during the conduct of this 
study, and leaderships or fiduciary roles in other boards and commissions. All 
other authors declare no competing interests.


106. RSC Adv. 2020 Mar 25;10(20):12089-12104. doi: 10.1039/d0ra01002b.
eCollection  2020 Mar 19.

Discovery of lixisenatide analogues as long-acting hypoglycemic agents using 
novel peptide half-life extension technology based on mycophenolic acid.

Tang C(1)(2), Li Q(3), Deng X(3), Wu W(1), Liao L(1), Liang K(1), Huo R(2), Li 
C(4), Han J(5), Tang W(6), Jiang N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Affiliated Tumor Hospital of Guangxi Medical 
University Nanning PR China cpujnh@163.com.
(2)Editorial Department, Affiliated Tumor Hospital of Guangxi Medical University 
Nanning PR China.
(3)Pharmaceutical College, Guangxi Medical University Nanning 530021 China.
(4)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of New Drug Research and Clinical Pharmacy, Xuzhou 
Medical University Xuzhou China.
(5)School of Chemistry & Materials Science, Jiangsu Normal University Xuzhou 
221116 PR China hj1986424@jsnu.edu.cn.
(6)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Affiliated Tumor Hospital of Guangxi 
Medical University Nanning PR China tangweizhong@gxmu.edu.cn.

Noncovalent binding of peptides to human serum albumin protects against renal 
clearance and enzymatic degradation. Herein, we investigated the effect of 
mycophenolic acid (MPA) albumin binders for improving the stability of peptides. 
For proof-of-principle, the short acting glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) 
receptor agonist lixisenatide was selected and functionalized with different MPA 
albumin binders. In vitro, all lixisenatide analogues showed well preserved 
GLP-1 receptor activation potency. High performance affinity chromatography 
(HPAC) and ultrafiltration analyses indicated that DiMPA was able to confer high 
albumin affinity to lixisenatide and revealed that affinity is increased for 
DiMPA modified lixisenatide analogues containing OEG spacers. In db/db mice, the 
selected peptide 2c showed comparable efficacies to lixisenatide with respect to 
glucose-lowering and insulinotropic activities. Furthermore, the duration of 
action of glucose homeostasis of 2c was comparable to semaglutide in db/db mice. 
Importantly, DiMPA albumin binder did not bring significant toxicity of 
lixisenatide, as reflected by the comparable toxicity indexes in 2c and 
semaglutide groups after 2 weeks dosing in normal Kunming mice. Short-term study 
(21 days) conducted on db/db mice showed the better therapeutic efficacies of 2c 
than semaglutide on pancreas islets protection. Importantly, in chronic studies 
(84 days) on db/db mice, 2c exhibited a sustained improvement in glycaemic 
control, to a greater extent than that of semaglutide. Thus, we propose DiMPA 
modification as a novel and general method for development of long-acting GLP-1 
receptor agonists for type 2 diabetes treatments, and 2c as a promising 
antidiabetic candidate.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1039/d0ra01002b
PMCID: PMC9050719
PMID: 35496622

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


107. Clin Transl Radiat Oncol. 2022 Apr 12;34:107-111. doi: 
10.1016/j.ctro.2022.04.005. eCollection 2022 May.

Validation and extension of the METSSS score in a metastatic cancer patient 
cohort after palliative radiotherapy within the last phase of life.

Christ SM(1), Schettle M(1)(2), Willmann J(1), Ahmadsei M(1), Seiler A(1)(2), 
Blum D(1)(2), Guckenberger M(1), Andratschke N(1), Hertler C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Zurich, University of 
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)Competence Center for Palliative Care, University Hospital Zurich, University 
of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND: Choosing the right treatment for the right patient 
in a setting of metastatic cancer disease remains a challenge. To facilitate 
clinical decision-making, predictive tools have been developed to personalize 
treatment. Here, we aim to assess the use of the recently proposed "METSSS 
score" as a prognostic tool for overall survival of cancer patients after 
palliative radiotherapy in the last phase of life.
METHODS: All patients treated with palliative radiotherapy at the end-of-life at 
the Department of Radiation Oncology of the University Hospital Zurich between 
January 2010 and December 2019 were included in this study. Data on 
demographics, diagnosis, treatment and comorbidities was extracted from the 
treatment planning and the electronical medical records system. To statistically 
assess the validity of the "METSSS score", the mortality risk score was 
calculated, followed by stratification of all patients to prognostic risk 
groups. The prediction of the 1-year overall survival estimates was subsequently 
calculated.
RESULTS: Over the past decade, 274 patients have received palliative 
radiotherapy during the end-of-life period. One third of patients was female 
(34%, n = 93). The most frequent primary tumor was lung cancer (n = 121, 44%), 
and 55% of patients (n = 152) had no comorbidities according to the 
Charlson-Deyo comorbidity index. The most common radiotherapy site was the brain 
and eye region (42%, n = 115). The median actual overall survival of all 
patients was 40 days from the start of radiotherapy. The "METSSS score" survival 
model predicted that 269 patients (98.1%) belong into the high-risk, four 
patients (1.5%) into the medium-risk, and one patient (0.4%) into the low-risk 
group. The predicted median 1-year overall survival was 10%.
DISCUSSION: The METSSS score correctly predicted the survival of our end-of-life 
patient cohort by assigning them into the highest risk category, and it can 
therefore serve as a decision-making tool when assigning patient to symptomatic 
radiotherapy.

© 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctro.2022.04.005
PMCID: PMC9038557
PMID: 35496816

Conflict of interest statement: NA received research support from ViewRay, 
BrainLab, SNF, the Swiss Cancer League, the Staffanini Foundation, and received 
honoraria from ViewRay, AstraZeneca, BrainLab, and Debiopharm.


108. EClinicalMedicine. 2022 Apr 21;47:101392. doi: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2022.101392.
 eCollection 2022 May.

Health conditions in adults with HIV compared with the general population: A 
population-based cross-sectional analysis.

Morales DR(1)(2), Moreno-Martos D(3), Matin N(4), McGettigan P(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Population Health and Genomics, University of Dundee, Dundee, 
United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Denmark.
(3)Division of Population Health and Genomics, University of Dundee, United 
Kingdom.
(4)Barts Health NHS Trust, Grahame Hayton Unit, Royal London Hospital, London, 
United Kingdom.
(5)William Harvey Research Institute, Queen Mary University of London, United 
Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy in adults with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
has increased and managing other health conditions is increasingly important for 
patients and healthcare planning. The aim of this study was to examine the 
prevalence and association between different health conditions and HIV status.
METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional analysis of adult UK Clinical Practice 
Research Datalink primary care electronic medical records linked to hospital 
admissions as of Nov 30, 2015. We examined 47 health condition groups and 304 
physical and mental health conditions by HIV status, after adjustment for age, 
sex, social deprivation status using logistic regression.
FINDINGS: There were 964 patients with HIV (61.7% male; 92.8% aged <65 years) 
and 941,113 non-HIV patients (49.4% male; 75.2% aged <65 years). Condition 
groups with the greatest prevalence in HIV that were also highly prevalent in 
adults without HIV included: lipid disorder (41.4% vs 40.2%), and hypertension 
(19.1% vs 24.6%). Following adjustment, 18 (37.5%) condition groups were more 
likely in adults with HIV and ten (20.8%) were less likely. Individual 
conditions that were less likely in adults with HIV included: atrial 
fibrillation (odds ratio [OR] 0.37 [95% CI 0.20-0.64]) and hypertension (OR_0.78 
[0.65-0.94]); rheumatoid arthritis (OR 0.27 [0.05-0.84]); asthma (OR_0.65 
(0.53-0.80]); and certain eye diseases such as macular degeneration (OR_0.30 
[0.09-0.70]). Meanwhile individual conditions that were more likely included: 
liver fibrosis, sclerosis, and cirrhosis (OR_3.23 [1.85-5.20]); pulmonary 
embolism (OR_2.06 [1.15-3.36]); male infertility (OR_2.23 [1.50-3.16]) and 
female infertility (OR_2.01 [1.34-2.88]); bipolar disorder (OR_2.93 [1.52-5.05]) 
and depression (OR_1.49 [1.28-1.71]); cervical malignancy (OR_4.64 
[1.15-12.15]); and infections.
INTERPRETATION: Comorbidity is common in adults with HIV, with physical and 
mental health conditions spanning a wide spectrum. HIV management should 
consider multidisciplinary care models to provide optimal patient care.
FUNDING: The project was funded by the Bart's Charity; DRM was funded by a 
Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Career Development Fellowship; DRM and DMM 
received funding from the HDR-UK Precision therapeutics programme.

© 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2022.101392
PMCID: PMC9046106
PMID: 35497059

Conflict of interest statement: We declare no competing interests.


109. RSC Adv. 2020 Apr 16;10(25):14991-14999. doi: 10.1039/d0ra00832j.
eCollection  2020 Apr 8.

De Novo designed 13 mer hairpin-peptide arrests insulin and inhibits its 
aggregation: role of OH-π interactions between water and hydrophobic amino 
acids.

Mukherjee M(1), Banerjee N(1), Chatterjee S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biophysics, Bose Institute P 1/12 CIT, Scheme VII M, 
Kankurgachi Kolkata 700054 India subhro_c@jcbose.ac.in.

Background: Protein aggregation in the cellular systems can be highly fatal 
causing a series of diseases including neurodegenerative diseases like ALS, 
Alzheimer, Prion Diseases, Parkinson's and other diseases like type II diabetes. 
To date, there is no crucial mechanism invented that shows how a protein 
molecule unfolds or misfolds. Insulin fibrillation in type II diabetes is an 
alarming event that brings every year deaths of millions of people around the 
globe. Pharmaceutical companies are still in the cultivation of finding newer 
therapeutic agents which halt/impede insulin aggregation to combat diabetes II 
and improve the patient's life expectancy. Methods and Results: Here in this 
report, we have engineered four short 13 mer peptides (N-term-DMYY- N-term-DITT- 
N-term-DIFF- N-term-KVYY-) which target monomeric insulin in its globular form. 
The de Novo designed peptides are found to be non-cytotoxic in human HEK293 
cells. Among these four peptides, only DITT- showed complete inhibition of 
insulin fibrillation, whereas DIFF- and DIYY- and KVYY- lost their functionality 
to impede insulin aggregation to a great extent. High-resolution 
multi-dimensional NMR experiments portrayed the 13 mer sequences of peptides in 
the beta-hairpin forms. A series of biophysical techniques like CD, ThT assay, 
DLS, SEM, ITC, size-exclusion chromatography, and molecular dynamics simulation 
strongly evidenced inhibition of insulin fibrillation by N-term-DITT- compared 
to those by the other peptides. Conclusion and significance: Here we tried to 
unravel how DITT- could impede insulin fibrillation.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1039/d0ra00832j
PMCID: PMC9052121
PMID: 35497136

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts to declare.


110. Front Syst Neurosci. 2022 Apr 12;16:780652. doi: 10.3389/fnsys.2022.780652. 
eCollection 2022.

Hyper-Adaptation in the Human Brain: Functional and Structural Changes in the 
Foot Section of the Primary Motor Cortex in a Top Wheelchair Racing Paralympian.

Morita T(1)(2), Hirose S(1)(3), Kimura N(1), Takemura H(1)(2)(4)(5), Asada 
M(1)(6)(7), Naito E(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Information and Neural Networks (CiNet), Advanced ICT Research 
Institute, National Institute of Information and Communications Technology 
(NICT), Osaka, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University, Osaka, Japan.
(3)Otemon Gakuin University, Faculty of Psychology, Osaka, Japan.
(4)Division of Sensory and Cognitive Brain Mapping, Department of System 
Neuroscience, National Institute for Physiological Sciences, Okazaki, Japan.
(5)Department of Physiological Sciences, School of Life Science, SOKENDAI (The 
Graduate University for Advanced Studies), Kanagawa, Japan.
(6)Institute for Open and Transdisciplinary Research Initiatives, Osaka 
University, Osaka, Japan.
(7)International Professional University of Technology in Osaka, Osaka, Japan.

The human brain has the capacity to drastically alter its somatotopic 
representations in response to congenital or acquired limb deficiencies and 
dysfunctions. The main purpose of the present study was to elucidate such 
extreme adaptability in the brain of an active top wheelchair racing Paralympian 
(participant P1) who has congenital paraplegia (dysfunction of bilateral lower 
limbs). Participant P1 has undergone long-term wheelchair racing training using 
bilateral upper limbs and has won a total of 19 medals in six consecutive summer 
Paralympic games as of 2021. We examined the functional and structural changes 
in the foot section of the primary motor cortex (M1) in participant P1 as 
compared to able-bodied control participants. We also examined the functional 
and structural changes in three other individuals (participants P2, P3, and P4) 
with acquired paraplegia, who also had long-term non-use period of the lower 
limbs and had undergone long-term training for wheelchair sports (but not top 
athletes at the level of participant P1). We measured brain activity in all the 
participants using functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) when bimanual 
wrist extension-flexion movement was performed, and the structural MRI images 
were collected. Compared to 37 control participants, participant P1 showed 
significantly greater activity in the M1 foot section during the bimanual task, 
and significant local GM expansion in this section. Significantly greater 
activity in the M1 foot section was also observed in participant P4, but not in 
P2 and P3, and the significant local GM expansion was observed in participant 
P2, but not in P3 and P4. Thus, functional or structural change was observed in 
an acquired paraplegic participant, but was not observed in all the paraplegic 
participants. The functional and structural changes typically observed in 
participant P1 may represent extreme adaptability of the human brain. We discuss 
the results in terms of a new idea of hyper-adaptation.

Copyright © 2022 Morita, Hirose, Kimura, Takemura, Asada and Naito.

DOI: 10.3389/fnsys.2022.780652
PMCID: PMC9039206
PMID: 35498215

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


111. Food Chem X. 2022 Jan 3;13:100202. doi: 10.1016/j.fochx.2021.100202.
eCollection  2022 Mar 30.

Protein complex nanoparticles reinforced with industrial hemp essential oil: 
Characterization and application for shelf-life extension of Rainbow trout 
fillets.

Majidiyan N(1), Hadidi M(2), Azadikhah D(1), Moreno A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathobiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Urmia Branch, 
Islamic Azad University, Urmia, Iran.
(2)Department of Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Chemical Sciences and 
Technologies, University of Castilla-La Mancha, Ciudad Real, Spain.

Essential oil of industrial hemp (Cannabis sativa L.) (IHEO) was reinforced in 
complexation of whey protein nanofibrils and mung bean protein nanoparticles 
(WPNF-MBP NPs) as a novel nano-carrier. A desirable retention rate range of 
