Burden of Disease study (2019) reported that periodontal disease affects 20-50% 
of the global population. In recent years, more preference has been given to 
natural therapies compared to synthetic drugs in the treatment of periodontal 
disease, and several oral care products, such as toothpaste, mouthwash, and 
dentifrices, have been developed comprising honeybee products, such as propolis, 
honey, royal jelly, and purified bee venom. In this study, we systematically 
reviewed the literature on the treatment of periodontitis using honeybee 
products. A literature search was performed using various databases, including 
PubMed, Web of Science, ScienceDirect, Scopus, clinicaltrials.gov, and Google 
Scholar. A total of 31 studies were reviewed using eligibility criteria 
published between January 2016 and December 2021. In vitro, in vivo, and 
clinical studies (randomized clinical trials) were included. Based on the 
results of these studies, honeybee products, such as propolis and purified bee 
venom, were concluded to be effective and safe for use in the treatment of 
periodontitis mainly due to their antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory 
activities. However, to obtain reliable results from randomized clinical trials 
assessing the effectiveness of honeybee products in periodontal treatment with 
long-term follow-up, a broader sample size and assessment of various clinical 
parameters are needed.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox11050823
PMCID: PMC9137511
PMID: 35624686

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


430. Antioxidants (Basel). 2022 May 6;11(5):917. doi: 10.3390/antiox11050917.

Drought and UV Radiation Stress Tolerance in Rice Is Improved by 
Overaccumulation of Non-Enzymatic Antioxidant Flavonoids.

Jan R(1)(2), Khan MA(1), Asaf S(3), Lubna(4), Waqas M(5), Park JR(1)(6), Asif 
S(1), Kim N(1), Lee IJ(1), Kim KM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Plant Biosciences, Department of Applied Biosciences, College of 
Agriculture and Life Science, Kyungpook National University, 80 Dahak-ro, 
Buk-gu, Daegu 41566, Korea.
(2)Costal Agriculture Research Institute, Kyungpook National University, 80 
Dahak-ro, Buk-gu, Daegu 41566, Korea.
(3)Natural and Medical Science Research Center, University of Nizwa, Nizwa 616, 
Oman.
(4)Department of Botany, Garden Campus, Abdul Wali Khan University, Mardan 
23200, Pakistan.
(5)Department of Agriculture Extension, Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Mardan 
23200, Pakistan.
(6)Crop Breeding Division, National Institute of Crop Science, Rural Development 
Administration, Wanju 55365, Korea.

Drought and ultraviolet radiation (UV radiation) are the coexisting 
environmental factors that negatively affect plant growth and development via 
oxidative damage. Flavonoids are reactive, scavenging oxygen species (ROS) and 
UV radiation-absorbing compounds generated under stress conditions. We 
investigated the biosynthesis of kaempferol and quercetin in wild and flavanone 
3-hydroxylase (F3H) overexpresser rice plants when drought and UV radiation 
stress were imposed individually and together. Phenotypic variation indicated 
that both kinds of stress highly reduced rice plant growth parameters in wild 
plants as compared to transgenic plants. When combined, the stressors adversely 
affected rice plant growth parameters more than when they were imposed 
individually. Overaccumulation of kaempferol and quercetin in transgenic plants 
demonstrated that both flavonoids were crucial for enhanced tolerance to such 
stresses. Oxidative activity assays showed that kaempferol and quercetin 
overaccumulation with strong non-enzymatic antioxidant activity mitigated the 
accumulation of ROS under drought and UV radiation stress. Lower contents of 
salicylic acid (SA) in transgenic plants indicated that flavonoid accumulation 
reduced stress, which led to the accumulation of low levels of SA. 
Transcriptional regulation of the dehydrin (DHN) and ultraviolet-B resistance 8 
(UVR8) genes showed significant increases in transgenic plants compared to wild 
plants under stress. Taken together, these results confirm the usefulness of 
kaempferol and quercetin in enhancing tolerance to both drought and UV radiation 
stress.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox11050917
PMCID: PMC9137601
PMID: 35624781

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


431. Brain Sci. 2022 May 17;12(5):657. doi: 10.3390/brainsci12050657.

A Loop That Matters-An Unusual Case of Bow Hunter's Syndrome.

Gajewski B(1), Stefańczyk L(2), Rożniecki JJ(1), Stasiołek M(1), Siger M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Lodz, 90-153 Lodz, Poland.
(2)Department of Radiology, Medical University of Lodz, 90-153 Lodz, Poland.

Bow Hunter's syndrome (BHS), also known as rotational vertebral artery occlusion 
(VAO), is a rare entity in which vertebral artery is reversibly compressed due 
to rotation or extension of the head, causing vertebrobasilar insufficiency. 
Because of VAO, BHS should be considered as a possible life-threatening 
condition. Diverse aetiologies of BHS may trigger a broad spectrum of 
non-specific symptoms and may result in frequent misdiagnosis of this disorder 
in daily clinical practice. Herein, we present a case of BHS caused by 
previously non-described vascular aetiology.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci12050657
PMCID: PMC9139719
PMID: 35625043

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


432. Biology (Basel). 2022 Apr 24;11(5):656. doi: 10.3390/biology11050656.

Healthy Long-Lived Human Beings-Working on Life Stages to Break the Limitation 
of Human Lifespans.

Gu W(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery and BME-Campbell Clinic, University of 
Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN 38163, USA.
(2)Research Service, Memphis VA Medical Center, 1030 Jefferson Avenue, Memphis, 
TN 38104, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Tennessee Health Science 
Center, 881 Madison Ave, Memphis, TN 38163, USA.

The human lifespan has been increasing but will soon reach a plateau. A new 
direction based on the principal law of lifespan (PLOSP) may enable the human 
lifespan to be extremely healthy and long by the proper manipulation of the 
well-defined growing stages of the lifespan. The lifespan of creatures on earth 
from a single cell to animals can be elongated at different life stages 
including prenatal development, body growth, reproductivity, and aging. Each 
life stage has its own specific physiological and metabolic characteristics. 
Each life stage can be lengthened by either slowing its processes or 
continuously maintaining the activities of its function. Unfortunately, the 
current biomedical research on the extension of lifespans has mainly focused on 
the aging stage. Recognizing and clearly defining the periods of transition and 
the boundaries of life stages are essential for achieving the goal of long-lived 
healthy humans based on the PLOSP. The biomedical measures and pharmacological 
treatments for the extension of lifespans is life-stage-specific. The PLOSP can 
be tested with modified studies on longevity with a variety of technologies such 
as castration and ovariectomy. Sex differences in biological functions and the 
sequential order of the life stages requires different approaches for females 
and males.

DOI: 10.3390/biology11050656
PMCID: PMC9137948
PMID: 35625384

Conflict of interest statement: The funders had no role in the design of the 
study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of 
the manuscript; or in the decision to publish the results.


433. Cancers (Basel). 2022 May 19;14(10):2507. doi: 10.3390/cancers14102507.

Gliomas Infiltrating the Corpus Callosum: A Systematic Review of the Literature.

Palmisciano P(1), Ferini G(2), Watanabe G(3), Ogasawara C(3), Lesha E(4), 
Bin-Alamer O(5), Umana GE(6), Yu K(7), Cohen-Gadol AA(8), El Ahmadieh TY(7), 
Haider AS(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, REM Radioterapia srl, 95029 Viagrande, 
Italy.
(3)John A. Burns School of Medicine, University of Hawai'i, Honolulu, HI 96813, 
USA.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Tennessee Health Science Center, 
Memphis, TN 38163, USA.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, Trauma Center, Gamma Knife Center, Cannizzaro 
Hospital, 95126 Catania, Italy.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY 10065, USA.
(8)Department of Neurological Surgery, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(9)Department of Neurosurgery, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Background: Gliomas infiltrating the corpus callosum (G-I-CC) majorly impact 
patient quality-of-life, but maximally safe tumor resection is challenging. We 
systematically reviewed the literature on G-I-CC. Methods: PubMed, EMBASE, 
Scopus, Web of Science, and Cochrane were searched following the PRISMA 
guidelines to include studies of patients with G-I-CC. Clinicopathological 
features, treatments, and outcomes were analyzed. Results: We included 52 
studies comprising 683 patients. Most patients experienced headache (33%), 
cognitive decline (18.7%), and seizures (17.7%). Tumors mostly infiltrated the 
corpus callosum genu (44.2%) with bilateral extension (85.4%) into frontal 
(68.3%) or parietal (8.9%) lobes. Most G-I-CC were glioblastomas (84.5%) with 
IDH-wildtype (84.9%) and unmethylated MGMT promoter (53.5%). Resection (76.7%) 
was preferred over biopsy (23.3%), mostly gross-total (33.8%) and subtotal 
(32.5%). The tumor-infiltrated corpus callosum was resected in 57.8% of cases. 
Radiation was delivered in 65.8% of patients and temozolomide in 68.3%. Median 
follow-up was 12 months (range, 0.1−116). In total, 142 patients (31.8%) 
experienced post-surgical complications, including transient supplementary motor 
area syndrome (5.1%) and persistent motor deficits (4.3%) or abulia (2.5%). 
Post-treatment symptom improvement was reported in 42.9% of patients. No 
differences in rates of complications (p = 0.231) and symptom improvement (p = 
0.375) were found in cases with resected versus preserved corpus callosum. 
Recurrences occurred in 40.9% of cases, with median progression-free survival of 
9 months (0.1−72). Median overall survival was 10.7 months (range, 0.1−116), 
significantly longer in low-grade tumors (p = 0.013) and after resection (p < 
0.001), especially gross-total (p = 0.041) in patients with high-grade tumors. 
Conclusions: G-I-CC show clinicopathological patterns comparable to other more 
frequent gliomas. Maximally safe resection significantly improves survival with 
low rates of persistent complications.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14102507
PMCID: PMC9139932
PMID: 35626112

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


434. Diagnostics (Basel). 2022 May 6;12(5):1153. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics12051153.

Point-of-Care Ultrasonography as an Extension of the Physical Examination for 
Abdominal Pain in the Emergency Department: The Diagnosis of Small-Bowel 
Volvulus as a Rare Complication after Changing the Feeding Jejunostomy Tube.

Wong TC(1)(2), Tan RC(1)(2), Lu JX(3), Cheng TH(3)(4), Lin WJ(1)(2), Chiu 
TF(1)(2), Wu SH(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung 
404, Taiwan.
(2)College of Medicine, China Medical University, Taichung 404, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung 
University, Taoyuan 333, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Emergency Medicine, New Taipei Municipal Tucheng Hospital, New 
Taipei City 236, Taiwan.

Point-of-care ultrasonography (POCUS) has become the most popular modality of 
testing for physicians in recent years and is used for improving the quality of 
care and increasing patient safety. However, POCUS is not always acceptable to 
all physicians. To address the benefits and importance of POCUS, numerous 
studies have examined the use of POCUS in clinical practice and even medical 
education. This article aims to highlight the effects of POCUS as an extension 
of the physical examination, and we present a case to address the reasons it 
should be performed. For a man experiencing abdominal pain immediately after his 
feeding jejunostomy tube was changed, there was high suspicion of small-bowel 
volvulus after a "whirlpool sign" was observed during the POCUS, whereby 
mesenteric vessels presented in a whirling or spiral shape. This impression was 
subsequently confirmed by computed tomography. Small-bowel volvulus is a rare 
complication of changing a feeding jejunostomy tube. The images submitted here 
add to the sparse evidence from the literature on the use of POCUS as an 
extension of the physical examination for evaluating abdominal pain. POCUS can 
be used after taking the patient's history and conducting a physical 
examination. The observation of a whirlpool sign may indicate the presence of a 
volvulus that is life-threatening.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics12051153
PMCID: PMC9140157
PMID: 35626308

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


435. Diagnostics (Basel). 2022 May 19;12(5):1271. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics12051271.

Diagnostic Age, Age at Death and Stage Migration in Men Dying with or from 
Prostate Cancer in Denmark.

Andersen MCM(1), Stroomberg HV(1), Brasso K(1)(2), Helgstrand JT(1), Røder 
A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Copenhagen Prostate Cancer Center, Department of Urology, Copenhagen 
University Hospital, Rigshospitalet, 2200 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, 2200 Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

The impact of changes in diagnostic activity and treatment options on prostate 
cancer epidemiology remains a subject of debate. Newly published long-term 
survival outcomes may not represent contemporary patients and new perspectives 
are in demand. All men dying in Denmark with prostate cancer diagnosis during a 
10-year period were analyzed to address the stage migration of and time lived 
with prostate cancer diagnosis. All male deaths in Denmark between 2007 and 2016 
(n = 261,657) were obtained and crosslinked with The Danish Prostate Cancer 
Registry (DaPCaR) and the Danish Cancer Registry. Correlation in diagnostic age 
and stage (localized, locally advanced, metastatic), age at death and cause of 
death were investigated by Kruskal-Wallis test and linear regression in 15,692 
men diagnosed with prostate cancer. Prostate cancer mortality remained stable 
during the study period. Among the men who died of prostate cancer, 65% had 
locally advanced or metastatic disease at diagnosis. Age at diagnosis declined 
in men diagnosed with localized disease and remained constant in men with 
locally advanced or metastatic disease. Age at death increased in all men. 
Despite increased efforts to detect prostate cancer early, two-thirds of men who 
die from prostate cancer still have advanced prostate cancer at the time of 
diagnosis. Our data show increased life-expectancy in men diagnosed with 
prostate cancer, however, this benefit must be weighed against increased time of 
living with the disease and overdiagnosis. The intensified treatment of elderly 
men and men with advanced disease may be the key to lower prostate cancer 
mortality.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics12051271
PMCID: PMC9140637
PMID: 35626426

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


436. Genes (Basel). 2022 Apr 24;13(5):749. doi: 10.3390/genes13050749.

Specific Gain and Loss of Co-Expression Modules in Long-Lived Individuals 
Indicate a Role of circRNAs in Human Longevity.

Ge MX(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Jiang JJ(1), Yang LQ(1), Yang XL(1), He YH(1), Li 
GH(1)(2)(3)(4), Kong QP(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Resources and Evolution/Key Laboratory of 
Healthy Aging Research of Yunnan Province, Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650223, China.
(2)CAS Center for Excellence in Animal Evolution and Genetics, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Kunming 650223, China.
(3)Kunming Key Laboratory of Healthy Aging Study, Kunming 650223, China.
(4)KIZ/CUHK Joint Laboratory of Bioresources and Molecular Research in Common 
Diseases, Kunming 650223, China.
(5)Kunming College of Life Science, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Beijing 100049, China.

Deep RNA sequencing of 164 blood samples collected from long-lived families was 
performed to investigate the expression patterns of circular RNAs (circRNAs). 
Unlike that observed in previous studies, circRNA expression in long-lived 
elderly individuals (98.3 ± 3.4 year) did not exhibit an age-accumulating 
pattern. Based on weighted circRNA co-expression network analysis, we found that 
longevous elders specifically gained eight but lost seven conserved 
circRNA-circRNA co-expression modules (c-CCMs) compared with normal elder 
controls (spouses of offspring of long-lived individuals, age = 59.3 ± 5.8 
year). Further analysis showed that these modules were associated with healthy 
aging-related pathways. These results together suggest an important role of 
circRNAs in regulating human lifespan extension.

DOI: 10.3390/genes13050749
PMCID: PMC9140997
PMID: 35627134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interests.


437. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 May 11;19(10):5841. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19105841.

The Relationship between Prevention and Panic from COVID-19, Ethical Principles, 
Life Expectancy, Anxiety, Depression and Stress.

Salehi M(1), Zimon G(2), Ghaderi AR(3), Hasan ZA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics and Administrative Sciences, Ferdowsi University of 
Mashhad, Mashhad 9177948974, Iran.
(2)Department of Finance, Banking, and Accountancy, Faculty of Management, 
Rzeszow University of Technology, 35-959 Rzeszow, Poland.
(3)Department of Clinical Psychology, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, Mashhad 
9177948974, Iran.
(4)Department of Economics and Administrative Sciences, Imamreza International 
University of Mashhad, Mashhad 9137913316, Iran.

The present study aims to assess the relationship between prevention and panic 
from COVID-19, ethical principles, life expectancy, anxiety, depression, and 
stress in auditors and financial managers of small- and medium-sized Iraqi 
firms. In other words, this paper seeks to answer the question of whether 
different types of prevention and panic from COVID-19 can enhance the ethical 
principles, life expectancy, anxiety, depression, and stress, or not. The study 
method is practical in its objective and descriptive survey procedure. The 
study's statistical population includes 185 employed auditors in audit firms, 
and 215 financial managers of small- and medium-sized Iraqi firms were selected 
as a sample of the study using the Cochran Sampling Method. In this paper, PLS 
tests are used to assess the effect of independent variables on the dependent 
variable. The results indicate no significant relationship between prevention 
from COVID-19 and ethical principles and life expectancy. However, the 
association between prevention from COVID-19 and anxiety, depression, and 
stress, and between panic from COVID-19 and ethical principles, life expectancy, 
anxiety, depression, and stress is positive and significant. The higher the 
panic from COVID-19, the more ethical principles, life expectancy, anxiety, 
depression, and stress. Since no study has been carried out so far on the effect 
of prevention and panic from COVID-19, ethical principles, life expectancy, 
depression, and stress in Iraqi firms, the present study results can provide 
valuable information and contribute to the development of science and knowledge.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19105841
PMCID: PMC9142045
PMID: 35627379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


438. Healthcare (Basel). 2022 May 6;10(5):854. doi: 10.3390/healthcare10050854.

Wishes and Needs of Nursing Home Residents: A Scoping Review.

Schweighart R(1), O'Sullivan JL(2), Klemmt M(3), Teti A(1), Neuderth S(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gerontology, University of Vechta, 49377 Vechta, Germany.
(2)Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität 
Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, and Berlin Institute of Health, 10117 
Berlin, Germany.
(3)Faculty of Applied Social Sciences, University of Applied Sciences 
Würzburg-Schweinfurt, 97070 Würzburg, Germany.

Falling birth rates and rising life expectancy are leading to global aging. The 
proportional increase in older people can be observed in almost all countries 
and regions worldwide. As a result, more people spend their later years in 
nursing homes. In homes where person-centered care is implemented, residents 
report greater satisfaction and quality of life. This approach is based on the 
wishes and needs of the residents. Therefore, the purpose of this scoping review 
is to explore the wishes and needs of nursing home residents. A scoping review 
of the literature was conducted in which 12 databases were systematically 
searched for relevant articles according to PRISMA-ScR guidelines. Both 
quantitative and qualitative study designs were considered. A total of 51 
articles met the inclusion criteria. Included articles were subjected to 
thematic analysis and synthesis to categorize findings into themes. The analysis 
identified 12 themes to which the wishes and needs were assigned: (1) 
Activities, leisure, and daily routine; (2) Autonomy, independence, choice, and 
control; (3) Death, dying, and end-of-life; (4) Economics; (5) Environment, 
structural conditions, meals, and food; (6) Health condition; (7) Medication, 
care, treatment, and hygiene; (8) Peer relationship, company, and social 
contact; (9) Privacy; (10) Psychological and emotional aspects, security, and 
safety; (11) Religion, spirituality; and (12) Sexuality. Nursing home residents 
are not a homogeneous group. Accordingly, a wide range of needs and wishes are 
reported in the literature, assigned to various topics. This underscores the 
need for tailored and person-centered approaches to ensure long-term well-being 
and quality of life in the nursing home care setting.

DOI: 10.3390/healthcare10050854
PMCID: PMC9140474
PMID: 35627991

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


439. Life (Basel). 2022 Apr 21;12(5):617. doi: 10.3390/life12050617.

Total Wrist Arthroplasty for Posttraumatic Wrist Osteoarthritis: A Cohort Study 
Comparing Three Indications.

Holzbauer M(1)(2), Mihalic JA(1)(2), Pollak M(1)(2), Froschauer SM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Kepler University Hospital, 
Krankenhausstrasse 9, 4020 Linz, Austria.
(2)Medical Faculty, Johannes Kepler University Linz, Altenberger Str. 69, 4040 
Linz, Austria.

Scapholunate ligament ruptures and scaphoid nonunion with consecutive advanced 
collapse (SLAC and SNAC wrists) as well as intra-articular distal radius 
fractures (DRF) are prone to cause posttraumatic wrist osteoarthritis. The aim 
of this study was to compare the outcomes of these indications for total wrist 
arthroplasty. We included 13, 11, and 8 patients with an overall mean age of 60 
± 9 years in the SLAC, SNAC, and DRF cohort, respectively. After an average 
follow-up period of 6 ± 3 years, we found no difference between our groups 
regarding pain levels and functional scores, although these parameters 
significantly improved compared to preoperative parameters. Complication and 
revision rates revealed no significant difference. However, significantly higher 
extension, arc of range of motion values in the flexion-extension, as well as in 
radial-ulnar deviation plain were detected in the SLAC compared to the DRF 
group. Finally, TWA proved to show a beneficial performance in all three 
investigated indications.

DOI: 10.3390/life12050617
PMCID: PMC9145948
PMID: 35629285

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


440. Life (Basel). 2022 Apr 29;12(5):660. doi: 10.3390/life12050660.

CAMDLES: CFD-DEM Simulation of Microbial Communities in Spaceflight and 
Artificial Microgravity.

An R(1)(2), Lee JA(3).

Author information:
(1)Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Cornell University, 
Ithaca, NY 14850, USA.
(2)Department of Biological and Environmental Engineering, Cornell University, 
Ithaca, NY 14850, USA.
(3)Space Biosciences Division, NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, CA 
94035, USA.

We present CAMDLES (CFD-DEM Artificial Microgravity Developments for Living 
Ecosystem Simulation), an extension of CFDEM®Coupling to model biological flows, 
growth, and mass transfer in artificial microgravity devices. For microbes that 
accompany humans into space, microgravity-induced alterations in the fluid 
environment are likely to be a major factor in the microbial experience of 
spaceflight. Computational modeling is needed to investigate how well 
ground-based microgravity simulation methods replicate that experience. CAMDLES 
incorporates agent-based modeling to study inter-species metabolite transport 
within microbial communities in rotating wall vessel bioreactors (RWVs). 
Preexisting CFD modeling of RWVs has not yet incorporated growth; CAMDLES 
employs the simultaneous modeling of biological, chemical, and mechanical 
processes in a micro-scale rotating reference frame environment. Simulation mass 
transfer calculations were correlated with Monod dynamic parameters to predict 
relative growth rates between artificial microgravity, spaceflight microgravity, 
and 1 g conditions. By simulating a microbial model community of metabolically 
cooperative strains of Escherichia coli and Salmonella enterica, we found that 
the greatest difference between microgravity and an RWV or 1 g gravity was when 
species colocalized in dense aggregates. We also investigated the influence of 
other features of the system on growth, such as spatial distribution, product 
yields, and diffusivity. Our simulation provides a basis for future laboratory 
experiments using this community for investigation in artificial microgravity 
and spaceflight microgravity. More broadly, our development of these models 
creates a framework for novel hypothesis generation and design of biological 
experiments with RWVs, coupling the effects of RWV size, rotation rate, and mass 
transport directly to bacterial growth in microbial communities.

DOI: 10.3390/life12050660
PMCID: PMC9144607
PMID: 35629329

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


441. Life (Basel). 2022 May 4;12(5):681. doi: 10.3390/life12050681.

Thermodynamic Factors That Drive Sequence-Specific DNA Binding of Designed, 
Synthetic Minor Groove Binding Agents.

Paul A(1), Farahat AA(1)(2), Boykin DW(1), Wilson WD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Center for Diagnostics and Therapeutics, Georgia 
State University, Atlanta, GA 30303, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura 
University, Mansoura 35516, Egypt.

Ken Breslauer began studies on the thermodynamics of small cationic molecules 
binding in the DNA minor groove over 30 years ago, and the studies reported here 
are an extension of those ground-breaking reports. The goals of this report are 
to develop a detailed understanding of the binding thermodynamics of 
pyridine-based sequence-specific minor groove binders that have different 
terminal cationic groups. We apply biosensor-surface plasmon resonance and ITC 
methods to extend the understanding of minor groove binders in two directions: 
(i) by using designed, heterocyclic dicationic minor groove binders that can 
incorporate a G•C base pair (bp), with flanking AT base pairs, into their DNA 
recognition site, and bind to DNA sequences specifically; and (ii) by using a 
range of flanking AT sequences to better define molecular recognition of the 
minor groove. A G•C bp in the DNA recognition site causes a generally more 
negative binding enthalpy than with most previously used pure AT binding sites. 
The binding is enthalpy-driven at 25 °C and above. The flanking AT sequences 
also have a large effect on the binding energetics with the -AAAGTTT- site 
having the strongest affinity. As a result of these studies, we now have a much 
better understanding of the effects of the DNA sequence and compound structure 
on the molecular recognition and thermodynamics of minor groove complexes.

DOI: 10.3390/life12050681
PMCID: PMC9147024
PMID: 35629349

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


442. Life (Basel). 2022 May 5;12(5):683. doi: 10.3390/life12050683.

Efficacy of Different Cold-Water Immersion Temperatures on Neuromotor 
Performance in Young Athletes.

Gaspar-Junior JJ(1), Dellagrana RA(2)(3), Barbosa FSS(1)(4), Anghinoni AP(5), 
Taciro C(5), Carregaro RL(6), Martinez PF(1)(3)(5), Oliveira-Junior SA(1)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Health and Development in the Midwest Region, Federal 
University of Mato Grosso do Sul-UFMS, Campo Grande 79070-900, Brazil.
(2)Physical Education Department, State University of Ponta Grossa -UEPG, Ponta 
Grossa 84030-900, Brazil.
(3)Graduate Program in Movement Sciences, Federal University of Mato Grosso do 
Sul-UFMS, Campo Grande 79070-900, Brazil.
(4)Department of Education Sciences, Federal University of Rondônia-UNIR, 
Ariquemes 76872-848, Brazil.
(5)School of Physical Therapy, Federal University of Mato Grosso do Sul-UFMS, 
Campo Grande 79070-900, Brazil.
(6)School of Physical Therapy, Master in Rehabilitation Sciences, Universidade 
de Brasilia-UnB, Brasília 70910-900, Brazil.

Cold-Water-Immersion (CWI) has been frequently used to accelerate muscle 
recovery and to improve performance after fatigue onset. In the present study, 
the aim was to investigate the effects of different CWI temperatures on 
neuromuscular activity on quadriceps after acute fatigue protocol. Thirty-six 
young athletes (16.9 ± 1.4 years-old; 72.1 ± 13.8 kg; 178.4 ± 7.2 cm) were 
divided into three groups: passive recovery group (PRG); CWI at 5 °C group (5G); 
and CWI at 10 °C group (10G). All participants performed a fatigue exercise 
protocol; afterwards, PRG performed a passive recovery (rest), while 5G and 10G 
were submitted to CWI by means of 5 °C and 10 °C temperatures during 10 min, 
respectively. Fatigue protocol was performed by knee extension at 40% of 
isometric peak force from maximal isometric voluntary contraction. 
Electromyography was used to evaluate neuromuscular performance. The passive 
recovery and CWI at 5 °C were associated with normalized isometric force and 
quadriceps activation amplitude from 15 until 120 min after exercise-induced 
fatigue (F = 7.169, p < 0.001). CWI at 5 °C and 10 °C showed higher muscle 
activation (F = 6.850, p < 0.001) and lower median frequency (MF) than passive 
recovery after 15 and 30 min of fatigue (F = 5.386, p < 0.001). For 
neuromuscular efficiency (NME) recovery, while PRG normalized NME values after 
15 min, 5G and 10G exhibited these responses after 60 and 30 min (F = 4.330, p < 
0.01), respectively. Passive recovery and CWI at 5 °C and 10 °C revealed similar 
effects in terms of recovery of muscle strength and NME, but ice interventions 
resulted in higher quadriceps activation recovery.

DOI: 10.3390/life12050683
PMCID: PMC9147268
PMID: 35629351

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


443. Life (Basel). 2022 May 18;12(5):748. doi: 10.3390/life12050748.

Diffusion Tensor Imaging of a Median Nerve by Magnetic Resonance: A Pilot Study.

Awais K(1), Snoj Ž(2), Cvetko E(3), Serša I(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Jožef Stefan International Postgraduate School, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(2)Department of Radiology, University Medical Centre Ljubljana, 1000 Ljubljana, 
Slovenia.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, University of Ljubljana, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(4)Jožef Stefan Institute, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.

The magnetic resonance Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) is a powerful extension of 
Diffusion Weighted Imaging (DWI) utilizing multiple bipolar gradients, allowing 
for the evaluation of the microstructural environment of the highly anisotropic 
tissues. DTI was predominantly used for the assessment of the central nervous 
system (CNS), but with the advancement in magnetic resonance (MR) hardware and 
software, it has now become possible to image the peripheral nerves which were 
difficult to evaluate previously because of their small caliber. This study 
focuses on the assessment of the human median peripheral nerve ex vivo by DTI 
microscopy at 9.4 T magnetic field which allowed the evaluation of diffusion 
eigenvalues, the mean diffusivity and the fractional anisotropy at 35 μm 
in-plane resolution. The resolution was sufficient for clear depiction of all 
nerve anatomical structures and therefore further image analysis allowed the 
obtaining of average values for DT parameters in nerve fascicles 
(intrafascicular region and perineurium) as well as in the surrounding 
epineurium. The results confirmed the highest fractional anisotropy of 0.33 and 
principal diffusion eigenvalue of 1.0 × 10-9 m2/s in the intrafascicular region, 
somewhat lower values of 0.27 and 0.95 × 10-9 m2/s in the perineurium region and 
close to isotropic with very slow diffusion (0.15 and 0.05 × 10-9 m2/s) in the 
epineurium region.

DOI: 10.3390/life12050748
PMCID: PMC9143877
PMID: 35629414

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


444. Life (Basel). 2022 May 23;12(5):768. doi: 10.3390/life12050768.

Role of SaPCR2 in Zn Uptake in the Root Elongation Zone of the Zn/Cd 
Hyperaccumulator Sedum alfredii.

Ge J(1), Lin J(1), Wu Z(1), Xu K(1), Tao J(1), Lin H(2), Tian S(1)(3), Lu 
L(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Environment Remediation and Ecological Health, Ministry of 
Education, College of Environmental & Resource Science, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou 310058, China.
(2)Agricultural Technology Extension Center of Huangyan, Taizhou 318020, China.
(3)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Subtropic Soil and Plant Nutrition, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China.

Zn pollution is a potential toxicant for agriculture and the environment. Sedum 
alfredii is a Zn/Cd hyperaccumulator found in China and has been proven as a 
useful resource for the phytoremediation of Zn-contaminated sites. However, the 
molecular mechanism of Zn uptake in S. alfredii is limited. In this study, the 
function of SaPCR2 on Zn uptake in S. alfredii was identified by gene expression 
analysis, yeast function assays, Zn accumulation and root morphology analysis in 
transgenic lines to further elucidate the mechanisms of uptake and translocation 
of Zn in S. alfredii. The results showed that SaPCR2 was highly expressed in the 
root elongation zone of the hyperaccumulating ecotype (HE) S. alfredii, and high 
Zn exposure downregulated the expression of SaPCR2 in the HE S. alfredii root. 
The heterologous expression of SaPCR2 in yeast suggested that SaPCR2 was 
responsible for Zn influx. The overexpression of SaPCR2 in the 
non-hyperaccumulating ecotype (NHE) S. alfredii significantly increased the root 
uptake of Zn, but did not influence Mn, Cu or Fe. SR-μ-XRF technology showed 
that more Zn was distributed in the vascular buddle tissues, as well as in the 
cortex and epidermis in the transgenic lines. Root morphology was also altered 
after SaPCR2 overexpression, and a severe inhibition was observed. In the 
transgenic lines, the meristematic and elongation zones of the root were lower 
compared to the WT, and Zn accumulation in meristem cells was also reduced. 
These results indicate that SaPCR2 is responsible for Zn uptake, and mainly 
functions in the root elongation zone. This research on SaPCR2 could provide a 
theoretical basis for the use of genetic engineering technology in the 
modification of crops for their safe production and biological enhancement.

DOI: 10.3390/life12050768
PMCID: PMC9146221
PMID: 35629434

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


445. Medicina (Kaunas). 2022 May 1;58(5):630. doi: 10.3390/medicina58050630.

Acetabular Peri-Prosthetic Fractures-A Narrative Review.

Beckers G(1), Djebara AE(1), Gauthier M(1)(2), Lubbeke A(1), Gamulin A(1), Zingg 
M(1), Bastian JD(2), Hannouche D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology, Geneva University 
Hospitals, 1205 Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology, Inselspital, University 
Hospital of Bern, 3010 Bern, Switzerland.

Acetabular peri-prosthetic fractures are rare but their incidence is rising due 
to the increased prevalence of total hip arthroplasty, the increasing life 
expectancy and the growing functional demand of an ageing population, the 
incidence of primary total hip arthroplasty is increasing. They are either 
intra-operative or post-operative and have various aetiologies. Several factors 
such as implant stability, bone loss, remaining bone stock, fracture pattern, 
timing, age and co-morbidities of the patients must be considered for adequate 
treatment. To date, the literature on this subject has been sparse and no 
universally recognized treatment algorithm exists. Their rarity makes them a 
little-known entity and their surgical management represents a challenge for 
most orthopaedic surgeons. This review aims to present an update on 
epidemiology, the diagnostic work up, existing classification systems, surgical 
approaches and therapeutic options for acetabular peri-prosthetic fractures.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina58050630
PMCID: PMC9143047
PMID: 35630047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest 
related to the present publication.


446. Molecules. 2022 May 19;27(10):3272. doi: 10.3390/molecules27103272.

GlycoTAIL and FlexiTAIL as Half-Life Extension Modules for Recombinant Antibody 
Fragments.

Seifert O(1)(2), Kontermann RE(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cell Biology and Immunology, University of Stuttgart, 70569 
Stuttgart, Germany.
(2)Stuttgart Research Center Systems Biology (SRCSB), University of Stuttgart, 
70569 Stuttgart, Germany.

Many therapeutic proteins are small in size and are rapidly cleared from 
circulation. Consequently, half-life extension strategies have emerged to 
improve pharmacokinetic properties, including fusion or binding to long-lasting 
serum proteins, chemical modifications with hydrophilic polymers such as 
PEGylation, or, more recently, fusion to PEG mimetic polypeptides. In the 
present study, two different PEG mimetic approaches, the GlycoTAIL and the 
FlexiTAIL, were applied to increase the hydrodynamic radius of antibody 
fragments of different sizes and valencies, including scFv, diabody, and 
scFv-EHD2 fusion proteins. The GlycoTAIL and FlexiTAIL sequences of varying 
lengths are composed of aliphatic and hydrophilic residues, with the GlycoTAIL 
furthermore comprising N-glycosylation sites. All modified proteins could be 
produced in a mammalian expression system without reducing stability and antigen 
binding, and all modified proteins exhibited a prolonged half-life and increased 
drug disposition in mice. The strongest effects were observed for proteins 
comprising a FlexiTAIL of 248 residues. Thus, the GlycoTAIL and FlexiTAIL 
sequences represent a flexible and modular system to improve the pharmacokinetic 
properties of proteins.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules27103272
PMCID: PMC9143431
PMID: 35630749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


447. Pathogens. 2022 May 7;11(5):553. doi: 10.3390/pathogens11050553.

Controlled Recirculating Wet Storage Purging V. parahaemolyticus in Oysters.

Mu R(1), Liu C(2), Parveen S(3), Webster D(4), Pang J(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou 
350002, China.
(2)Sea Grant College Extension Program, University of Maryland Extension and 
Maryland-Sea Grant Extension, Princess Anne, MD 21853, USA.
(3)Department of Agriculture, Food and Resource Sciences, University of Maryland 
Eastern Shore, Princess Anne, MD 21853, USA.
(4)Wye Research & Education Center, University of Maryland Extension, 
Queenstown, MD 21658, USA.

This work explored the effects of salinity and temperature on the efficacy of 
purging V. parahaemolyticus from eastern oysters (Crassostrea virginica). 
Oysters were inoculated with a 5-strain cocktail of V. parahaemolyticus to 
levels of 104 to 105 MPN (most probable number)/g and depurated in a controlled 
re-circulating wet-storage system with artificial seawater (ASW). Both salinity 
and temperature remarkably affected the efficacy for the depuration of V. 
parahaemolyticus from oysters during wet-storage. The wet-storage process at 
salinity 20 ppt at 7.5 °C or 10 °C could achieve a larger than 3 log (MPN/g) 
reduction of Vibrio at Day 7, which meets the FDA's requirement as a 
post-harvest process for V. parahaemolyticus control. At the conditions of 10 °C 
and 20 ppt, a pre-chilled system could achieve a 3.54 log (MPN/g) reduction of 
Vibrio in oysters on Day 7. There was no significant difference in the shelf 
life between inoculated and untreated oysters before the depuration, with a same 
survival rate (stored in a 4 °C cooler for 15 days) of 93%.

DOI: 10.3390/pathogens11050553
PMCID: PMC9145652
PMID: 35631074

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


448. Nutrients. 2022 May 12;14(10):2029. doi: 10.3390/nu14102029.

Laurel Attenuates Dexamethasone-Induced Skeletal Muscle Atrophy In Vitro and in 
a Rat Model.

Jia H(1), Yamashita T(1), Li X(1), Kato H(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Nutrition, Department of Applied Biological Chemistry, Graduate School 
of Agricultural and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 1-1-1 Yayoi, 
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8657, Japan.

Prevention of muscle atrophy contributes to improved quality of life and life 
expectancy. In this study, we investigated the effects of laurel, selected from 
34 spices and herbs, on dexamethasone (DEX)-induced skeletal muscle atrophy and 
deciphered the underlying mechanisms. Co-treatment of C2C12 myotubes with laurel 
for 12 h inhibited the DEX-induced expression of intracellular ubiquitin 
ligases-muscle atrophy F-box (atrogin-1/MAFbx) and muscle RING finger 1 
(MuRF1)-and reduction in myotube diameter. Male Wistar rats were supplemented 
with 2% laurel for 17 days, with DEX-induced skeletal muscle atrophy occurring 
in the last 3 days. Laurel supplementation inhibited the mRNA expression of 
MuRF1, regulated DNA damage and development 1 (Redd1), and forkhead box class O 
1 (Foxo1) in the muscles of rats. Mechanistically, we evaluated the effects of 
laurel on the cellular proteolysis machinery-namely, the ubiquitin/proteasome 
system and autophagy-and the mTOR signaling pathway, which regulates protein 
synthesis. These data indicated that the amelioration of DEX-induced skeletal 
muscle atrophy induced by laurel, is mainly mediated by the transcriptional 
inhibition of downstream factors of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Thus, 
laurel may be a potential food ingredient that prevents muscle atrophy.

DOI: 10.3390/nu14102029
PMCID: PMC9143575
PMID: 35631169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


449. Sensors (Basel). 2022 May 12;22(10):3676. doi: 10.3390/s22103676.

Low-Power Lossless Data Compression for Wireless Brain Electrophysiology.

Cuevas-López A(1), Pérez-Montoyo E(2), López-Madrona VJ(2), Canals S(2), Moratal 
D(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitat Politècnica de València, 46022 Valencia, Valencia, Spain.
(2)Instituto de Neurociencias de Alicante, 03550 Sant Joan d'Alacant, Alicante, 
Spain.

Wireless electrophysiology opens important possibilities for neuroscience, 
especially for recording brain activity in more natural contexts, where 
exploration and interaction are not restricted by the usual tethered devices. 
The limiting factor is transmission power and, by extension, battery life 
required for acquiring large amounts of neural electrophysiological data. We 
present a digital compression algorithm capable of reducing electrophysiological 
data to less than 65.5% of its original size without distorting the signals, 
which we tested in vivo in experimental animals. The algorithm is based on a 
combination of delta compression and Huffman codes with optimizations for neural 
signals, which allow it to run in small, low-power Field-Programmable Gate 
Arrays (FPGAs), requiring few hardware resources. With this algorithm, a 
hardware prototype was created for wireless data transmission using commercially 
available devices. The power required by the algorithm itself was less than 3 
mW, negligible compared to the power saved by reducing the transmission 
bandwidth requirements. The compression algorithm and its implementation were 
designed to be device-agnostic. These developments can be used to create a 
variety of wired and wireless neural electrophysiology acquisition systems with 
low power and space requirements without the need for complex or expensive 
specialized hardware.

DOI: 10.3390/s22103676
PMCID: PMC9147146
PMID: 35632085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


450. Viruses. 2022 May 10;14(5):1015. doi: 10.3390/v14051015.

Studies of Infection and Experimental Reactivation by Recombinant VZV with 
Mutations in Virally-Encoded Small Non-Coding RNA.

Bisht P(1), Das B(1), Borodianskiy-Shteinberg T(1), Kinchington PR(2), Goldstein 
RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Mina and Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 
Ramat-Gan 52900, Israel.
(2)Departments of Ophthalmology and of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15213-2588, USA.

Locked-nucleotide analog antagonists (LNAA) to four varicella zoster virus small 
non-coding RNA (VZVsncRNA 10-13) derived from the mRNA of the open reading frame 
(ORF) 61 gene individually reduce VZV replication in epithelial cells and 
fibroblasts. To study the potential roles VZVsncRNA 10-13 have in neuronal 
infection we generated two recombinant VZV; one in which 8 nucleotides were 
changed in VZVsncRNA10 without altering the encoded residues of ORF61 
(VZVsnc10MUT) and a second containing a 12-nucleotide deletion of the sequence 
common to VZVsncRNA12 and 13, located in the ORF61 mRNA leader sequence 
(VZVsnc12-13DEL). Both were developed from a VZV BAC with a green fluorescent 
protein (GFP) reporter fused to the N terminal of the capsid protein encoded by 
ORF23. The growth of both mutant VZV in epithelial cells and fibroblasts was 
similar to that of the parental recombinant virus. Both mutants established 
productive infections and experimental latency in neurons derived from human 
embryonic stem cells (hESC). However, neurons that were latently infected with 
both VZV mutant viruses showed impaired ability to reactivate when given stimuli 
that successfully reactivated the parental virus. These results suggest that 
these VZVsncRNA may have a role in VZV latency maintenance and/or reactivation. 
The extension of these studies and confirmation of such roles could potentially 
inform the development of a non-reactivating, live VZV vaccine.

DOI: 10.3390/v14051015
PMCID: PMC9144856
PMID: 35632756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


451. Viruses. 2022 May 19;14(5):1096. doi: 10.3390/v14051096.

Elimination of Hepatitis C in Southern Italy: A Model of HCV Screening and 
Linkage to Care among Hospitalized Patients at Different Hospital Divisions.

Rosato V(1), Kondili LA(2), Nevola R(1), Perillo P(1), Mastrocinque D(1), Aghemo 
A(3)(4), Claar E(1).

Author information:
(1)Liver Unit, Ospedale Evangelico Betania, 80147 Naples, Italy.
(2)Center for Global Health, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, 00161 Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, 20090 Pieve 
Emanuele, Italy.
(4)Division of Internal Medicine and Hepatology, Department of Gastroenterology, 
Humanitas Research Hospital IRCCS, 20089 Rozzano, Italy.

Background: Free-of-charge HCV screening in some key populations and in 
1969-1989 birth cohorts has been funded in Italy as the first step to diagnosing 
individuals who are infected but asymptomatic. The aim of this study is to 
evaluate the feasibility of an opportunistic HCV screening and its linkage to 
care. Methods: A hospital-based HCV screening was conducted as a routine test 
for in-patients admitted to the Evangelical Hospital Betania of Naples from 
January 2020 to May 2021. All consecutive in-patients were screened for the HCV 
antibody (HCV-Ab) at the time of their admission to the hospital, and those born 
prior to year 2000 were included in the study. HCV-RNA testing was required for 
those not previously treated and without antiviral treatment contraindications. 
For in-patients with an active infection, treatment started soon after hospital 
admission. Results: Among 12,665 inpatients consecutively screened, 510 (4%) 
were HCV-Ab positive. The HCV-Ab positivity rate increased with age, reaching 
the highest prevalence (9.49%) in those born before 1947. Among patients 
positive for HCV, 118 (23.1%) had been previously treated, 172 (33.9%) had been 
discharged before being tested for HCV-RNA, and 26 (5.1%) had not been tested 
for short life expectancy. Of 194 (38% of HCV-Ab+) patients who were tested for 
HCV-RNA, 91 (46.2%) were HCV-RNA positive. Of patients with active infection, 33 
(36%) were admitted to the liver unit with signs of liver damage either not 
previously diagnosed or diagnosed but unlinked to care for HCV infection. Of the 
patients positive for HCV-RNA, 87 (95.6%) started treatment; all achieved 
sustained virological response. Conclusion: HCV active infection has been 
frequently found in patients with comorbidities admitted in the hospital in 
Southern Italy. To achieve HCV elimination in Italy, broader screening 
strategies are required. In addition to screening of the 1969-1989 birth cohort 
of individuals unaware of their infection status, diagnosis and linkage to care 
of patients with known liver damage is strictly required. Hospital screening is 
feasible, but prompt reflex testing for identifying HCV-active infections is 
necessary to increase diagnosis and subsequent linkage to care.

DOI: 10.3390/v14051096
PMCID: PMC9143022
PMID: 35632837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None conflict of interest is reported from each 
of authors related to this manuscript.


452. J Epidemiol Glob Health. 2022 Sep;12(3):267-273. doi: 
10.1007/s44197-022-00045-5. Epub 2022 May 28.

The Disease Burden of Primary Intracerebral Hemorrhage in Hunan Province, China 
in 2018.

Han L(1), Tang T(2), Lin Y(3), Shi J(3), Zhong H(4), Chen M(3), Deng J(5), Zhang 
W(6)(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, 87 Xiangya Road, Changsha, 410008, China.
(2)Tongxiang Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Zhejiang, 314500, China.
(3)Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory of Clinical Epidemiology, Xiangya School of 
Public Health, Central South University, Changsha, 410008, China.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, 410008, China.
(5)Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory of Clinical Epidemiology, Xiangya School of 
Public Health, Central South University, Changsha, 410008, China. 
jingdeng@csu.edu.cn.
(6)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, 87 Xiangya Road, Changsha, 410008, China. yjsd2003@163.com.
(7)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, Central South University, Hunan Key 
Laboratory of Pharmacogenetics, Changsha, 410008, China. yjsd2003@163.com.
