environmental conditions.

DOI: 10.1126/science.abl7811
PMID: 35737795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2022 Jul;28(7):740-752. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2022.28.7.740.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of semaglutide 2.4 mg for the treatment of adult 
patients with overweight and obesity in the United States.

Kim N(1), Wang J(2), Burudpakdee C(1), Song Y(2), Ramasamy A(1), Xie Y(3), Sun 
R(2), Kumar N(4), Wu EQ(2), Sullivan SD(5).

Author information:
(1)Novo Nordisk Inc, Plainsboro, NJ.
(2)Analysis Group, Inc, Boston, MA.
(3)Analysis Group, Inc, Beijing, China.
(4)Novo Nordisk Inc, Plainsboro, NJ, now with Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Horsham, 
PA.
(5)CHOICE Institute, School of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle.

BACKGROUND: The rising prevalence and associated public health burden of obesity 
has led to advancements in pharmaceuticals for weight management. Semaglutide 
2.4 mg, an anti-obesity medication (AOM) recently approved by the US Food and 
Drug Administration, has demonstrated clinically relevant weight loss in its 
phase 3 clinical trials. Economic evaluation comparing semaglutide 2.4 mg with 
other available weight management therapies is essential to inform payers for 
decision-making. OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost-effectiveness of semaglutide 2.4 
mg in the treatment of adult patients with obesity (ie, body mass index [BMI] ≥ 
30) and adult patients who are overweight (ie, BMI 27-29.9) with 1 or more 
weight-related comorbidities from a US third-party payer perspective. METHODS: A 
cohort Markov model was constructed to compare semaglutide 2.4 mg with the 
following comparators: no treatment, diet and exercise (D&E), and 3 branded AOMs 
(liraglutide 3 mg, phentermine-topiramate, and naltrexone-bupropion). All AOMs, 
including semaglutide 2.4 mg, were assumed to be taken in conjunction with D&E. 
Changes in BMI, blood pressure, cholesterol level, experience of acute and 
chronic obesity-related complications, costs, and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) were simulated over 30 years based on pivotal trials of the AOMs and 
other relevant literature. Drug and health care prices reflect 2021 standardized 
values. Cost-effectiveness was examined with a willingness-to-pay (WTP) 
threshold of $150,000 per QALY gained. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to 
test the robustness of the cost-effectiveness results to plausible variation in 
model inputs. RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, treatment with semaglutide 2.4 
mg was estimated to improve QALYs by 0.138 to 0.925 and incur higher costs by 
$3,254 to $25,086 over the 30-year time horizon vs comparators. Semaglutide 2.4 
mg is cost-effective against all comparators at the prespecified WTP threshold, 
with the incremental cost per QALY gained ranging from $23,556 to $144,296 per 
QALY gained. In the sensitivity analysis, extended maximum treatment duration, 
types of subsequent treatment following therapy discontinuation, and 
weight-rebound rates were identified as key drivers for model results. The 
estimated probability of semaglutide 2.4 mg being cost-effective compared with 
comparators ranged from 67% to 100% when varying model parameters and 
assumptions. CONCLUSIONS: As a long-term weight management therapy, semaglutide 
2.4 mg was estimated to be cost-effective compared with no treatment, D&E alone, 
and all other branded AOM comparators under a WTP threshold of $150,000 per QALY 
gained over a 30-year time horizon. DISCLOSURES: Financial support for this 
research was provided by Novo Nordisk Inc. The study sponsor was involved in 
several aspects of the research, including the study design, the interpretation 
of data, the writing of the manuscript, and the decision to submit the 
manuscript for publication. Dr Kim and Ms Ramasamy are employees of Novo Nordisk 
Inc. Ms Kumar and Dr Burudpakdee were employees of Novo Nordisk Inc at the time 
this study was conducted. Dr Sullivan received research support from Novo 
Nordisk Inc for this study. Drs Wang, Song, Wu, Ms Xie, and Ms Sun are employees 
of Analysis Group, Inc, who received consultancy fees from Novo Nordisk Inc in 
connection with this study.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2022.28.7.740
PMCID: PMC10372962
PMID: 35737858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Financial support for this research was provided 
by Novo Nordisk Inc. The study sponsor was involved in several aspects of the 
research, including the study design, the interpretation of data, the writing of 
the manuscript, and the decision to submit the manuscript for publication. Dr 
Kim and Ms Ramasamy are employees of Novo Nordisk Inc. Ms Kumar and Dr 
Burudpakdee were employees of Novo Nordisk Inc at the time this study was 
conducted. Dr Sullivan received research support from Novo Nordisk Inc for this 
study. Drs Wang, Song, Wu, Ms Xie, and Ms Sun are employees of Analysis Group, 
Inc, who received consultancy fees from Novo Nordisk Inc in connection with this 
study.


811. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2022 Jul;28(7):732-739. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2022.28.7.732.

When are breakthrough therapies cost-effective?

Olchanski N(1)(2), Lin PJ(1)(2), Yeh WS(3), Kowal S(3), Cohen JT(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA.
(2)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, Boston, Tufts University, MA.
(3)Genentech, South San Francisco, CA.

BACKGROUND: An increasing proportion of novel drug approvals use accelerated 
pathways, with notable growth in the US Food and Drug Administration-designated 
breakthrough pathway in recent years. Breakthrough therapy (BT) designation 
suggests that these therapies offer substantial potential to improve health 
outcomes but their value for money is not fully understood, as BTs typically 
cost more than non-BTs (NBTs). OBJECTIVE: To assess the economic value of BTs 
and factors associated with their reported value. METHODS: Using the Tufts 
Medical Center Cost-Effectiveness (CE) Analysis Registry, we (1) summarized the 
CE of BTs, as measured by cost per quality-adjusted-life-year (QALY); (2) 
compared the CE of BTs and NBTs in the United States; and (3) identified factors 
associated with BT CE using general estimating equation models across US 
willingness-to-pay (WTP) benchmarks ($50K-$150K/QALY). RESULTS: Between 2013 and 
2018, the US Food and Drug Administration approved 279 drugs, designating 83 
(32%) as BTs. Incremental costs and health gains (QALYs) were higher for BTs 
relative to NBTs ($29,000 vs $20,000 and 0.7 vs 0.2 QALYs, respectively), and 
BTs had more favorable CE ratios compared with NBTs (median values $38,000/QALY 
vs $50,000/QALY, respectively). For BTs, hepatitis C treatments had the most 
favorable CE ratios, which may be driven by the curative nature of some 
hepatitis C therapies. Furthermore, BT CE ratios for new molecular entities 
(NMEs) were about 40% lower than ratios for non-NME BTs on average, which may 
signal more value for money when the BT has a new active molecule. Regression 
analysis to identify trends driving CE found that BT drugs compared with active 
comparators (instead of best supportive care) were less likely to be 
cost-effective at standard US WTP thresholds (odds ratio [OR] = 0.1-0.6) and 
that BTs in the neoplasm space also trended less likely to be cost-effective (OR 
= 0.12-0.43). CE ratios reported by studies with industry funding were also more 
likely to be cost-effective than ratios from studies with other funding sources 
(OR = 4.3-4.5), though this finding was not significant at WTP thresholds over 
$50,000/QALY gained. CONCLUSIONS: Evidence from published, peer-reviewed CE 
studies suggests that BTs may confer greater health benefits than NBTs in terms 
of overall QALYs. Our analysis supports that the US Food and Drug Administration 
BT designation may be associated with increased value for money for these BTs. 
However, factors such as the disease area, NME status, and comparator (active vs 
standard of care) will also influence whether these therapies are 
cost-effective. DISCLOSURES: Dr Cohen reports grants or contracts from PhRMA 
Foundation, National Pharmaceutical Council, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
Eli Lilly and Company, Gilead Sciences, Regeneron, Pfizer, Merck, Johnson & 
Johnson, Vir Biotechnology, Moderna, Amgen, and Lundbeck; consulting fees from 
AbbVie, Biogen, IQVIA, Novartis, Partnership for Health Analytic Research, 
Pharmerit, Precision Health Economics, Sage, Sanofi, and Sarepta; and stock or 
stock options from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Johnson & Johnson, and Merck. Ms Kowal 
is an employee and stockholder of Genentech, Inc. Dr Yeh is an employee and 
stockholder of Roche, Inc.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2022.28.7.732
PMCID: PMC10372966
PMID: 35737862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr Cohen reports grants or contracts from PhRMA 
Foundation, National Pharmaceutical Council, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
Eli Lilly and Company, Gilead Sciences, Regeneron, Pfizer, Merck, Johnson & 
Johnson, Vir Biotechnology, Moderna, Amgen, and Lundbeck; consulting fees from 
AbbVie, Biogen, IQVIA, Novartis, Partnership for Health Analytic Research, 
Pharmerit, Precision Health Economics, Sage, Sanofi, and Sarepta; and stock or 
stock options from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Johnson & Johnson, and Merck. Ms Kowal 
is an employee and stockholder of Genentech, Inc. Dr Yeh is an employee and 
stockholder of Roche, Inc.


812. Animal. 2022 Jul;16(7):100564. doi: 10.1016/j.animal.2022.100564. Epub 2022
Jun  20.

Effect of weight and storage time of broiler breeders' eggs on morphology and 
biochemical features of eggs, embryogenesis, hatchability, and chick quality.

Nowaczewski S(1), Babuszkiewicz M(2), Szablewski T(3), Stuper-Szablewska K(4), 
Cegielska-Radziejewska R(3), Tomczyk Ł(3), Kaczmarek S(5), Sechman A(6), Lis 
MW(7), Kwaśniewska M(6), Racewicz P(1), Jarosz Ł(8), Ciszewski A(8), Nowak T(9), 
Hejdysz M(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Breeding and Product Quality Assessment, Poznan 
University of Life Sciences, 60-637 Poznań, Poland.
(2)DanHatch Poland S.A., Stary Widzim 254, 64-200 Wolsztyn, Poland.
(3)Department of Food Quality and Safety Management, Poznan University of Life 
Sciences, 60-637 Poznań, Poland.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Poznan University of Life Sciences, 60-637 Poznań, 
Poland.
(5)Department of Animal Nutrition, Poznan University of Life Sciences, 60-637 
Poznań, Poland.
(6)Department of Animal Physiology and Endocrinology, University of Agriculture 
in Krakow, 30-059 Kraków, Poland.
(7)Department of Zoology and Animal Welfare, University of Agriculture in 
Krakow, 30-059 Kraków, Poland.
(8)Department of Epizootiology and Clinic of Infectious Diseases, University of 
Life Sciences in Lublin, 20-612 Lublin, Poland.
(9)Department of Genetics and Animal Breeding, Poznan University of Life 
Sciences, 60-637 Poznań, Poland.
(10)Department of Animal Breeding and Product Quality Assessment, Poznan 
University of Life Sciences, 60-637 Poznań, Poland. Electronic address: 
marcin.hejdysz@up.poznan.pl.

The transfer of hatchability results obtained under experimental conditions to 
the commercial ground with a positive financial effect proves the value and 
usefulness of these data. On the other hand, finding results on commercial 
processes of broiler breeders' egg incubation in the literature is challenging. 
The presented study aimed to determine the effects of egg weight and storage 
time on the physical, biochemical characteristics of hatching eggs, 
embryogenesis and hatchability in Ross 308 broiler breeders. On the laying day, 
the eggs were divided into four weight groups: S - small eggs (57-61 g), M - 
medium eggs (62-66 g), L - large eggs (67-71 g), and XL - extra-large eggs 
(72-76 g). The eggs were then stored for 3, 7, 14, and 21 days under controlled 
conditions. As the egg storage time increased, a decrease in the yolk quality 
(lower index) was observed. The highest Haugh units were found in eggs from the 
S and M groups. The cholesterol content of the M, L, and XL groups was lower on 
days 7, 14, and 21 as compared to that of eggs only stored for 3 days. Egg 
weight loss during incubation decreased with an increase in the egg weight. An 
extension of the egg storage time caused an increase in the loss of egg weight. 
On the 14th and 18th days of hatching, an increase in the eggshell temperature 
was noted with an increase in the weight of the egg. The eggs stored for 7 days 
were characterised by the highest shell temperature on each day. The highest 
hatchability percentage was recorded for the M group. The hatchability rate 
decreased with the prolongation of the storage time, while the number of 
crippled chicks after hatching increased. The results confirmed that the 
increased weight of the eggs and prolonged storage time (14 and 21 days) 
increased the weight and decreased the length of the newly hatched chicks, 
respectively. Chicks from the heaviest eggs and those stored for 14 and 21 days 
showed poor results on the Pasgar score® test. The observations indicate the 
need to adopt various (of those available) methods to assess the quality of 
newly hatched chicks in hatcheries in order to produce high-quality broiler 
chickens. The results also indicate that prolonged egg storing beyond 14 days 
may affect the thyroid hormone economy during the hatching of chicks, especially 
in the XL group.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.animal.2022.100564
PMID: 35738085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. J Insect Sci. 2022 May 1;22(3):14. doi: 10.1093/jisesa/ieac033.

miR-92a-1-p5 Modulated Expression of the flightin Gene Regulates Flight Muscle 
Formation and Wing Extension in the Pea Aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum (Hemiptera: 
Aphidoidea).

Chang M(1), Cheng H(1), Cai Z(1), Qian Y(1), Zhang K(1), Yang L(1), Ma N(1), Li 
D(1).

Author information:
(1)Henan Key Laboratory of Insect Biology in Funiu Mountain, Henan International 
Joint Laboratory of Insect Biology, College of Life Science and Agricultural 
Engineering, Nanyang Normal University, 1638 Wolong Road, Nanyang, Henan 473061, 
China.

Aphids exhibit wing polyphenism. Winged and wingless aphid morphs are produced 
by parthenogenesis depending on population density and host plant quality. 
Recent studies showed that microRNAs in alate and apterous individuals have 
differential expression and are involved in wing dimorphism of Acyrthosiphon 
pisum. From which miR-92a-1-p5 can target the mRNA of flight muscle gene 
flightin in vitro, but what effect they have on wing development of aphid is 
unclear. Here with the nanocarrier-delivered RNA interference (RNAi) method, 
flightin gene was knocked down in winged nymphs of A. pisum. Results showed that 
the majority (63.33%) of adults had malformed wings, the shape of dorsal 
longitudinal muscle (DLM) was deformed severely, the dorsoventral flight muscle 
(DVM) became wider and looser in aphids with flightin reduction compared with 
the negative control. Overexpression of miR-92a-1-p5 caused decreased expression 
of flightin and malformed wings of aphids, with a mutant ratio of 62.50%. 
Morphological analysis of flight musculature showed the consistent result as 
that with flightin knockdown. These results suggest that flightin is essential 
for flight musculature formation and wing extension in A. pisum, which can be 
modulated by miR-92a-1-p5.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/jisesa/ieac033
PMCID: PMC9225819
PMID: 35738260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Gesundheitswesen. 2023 Mar;85(S 02):S101-S110. doi: 10.1055/a-1806-2115.
Epub  2022 Jun 23.

[Utilizing Routine Health Insurance Data for Calculation of Disease Frequencies 
in the Project BURDEN 2020].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Schüssel K(1), Breitkreuz J(1), Brückner G(1), Schröder H(1).

Author information:
(1)Wissenschaftliches Institut der AOK (WIdO), Berlin, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: The concept of disease burden enables a comprehensive analysis of the 
health status of a population. Key indicators are years of life lost due to 
mortality (YLL) and morbidity (years lived with disability, YLD), summarised in 
the DALY indicator (disability adjusted life years). These indicators are 
suitable for planning prevention, health care or provision of health services. 
With the project BURDEN 2020, funded by the German Federal Joint Committee's 
Innovation Fund, a national and regionalised calculation of burden of disease 
for Germany is being carried out for the first time, based on the methodology of 
the international "Global Burden of Disease" study.
METHODS: Calculation of YLD requires data on the frequency and severity of 
diseases, with routine health insurance data constituting an important data 
source. Case definitions for 18 selected diseases and severity levels for 11 of 
these diseases were developed in expert meetings. Based on these case 
definitions, the AOK Research Institute (WIdO) calculated disease frequencies 
from health utilisation data of patients insured with the AOK. A specific 
concept for prevalence calculation takes into account the dynamics of an open 
cohort of insurees. For severity levels, the results of the AOK insurees were 
extrapolated to the total population in Germany according to age and gender 
groups. For disease frequencies, the results were additionally adjusted for 
morbidity and estimated on regional levels.
RESULTS: Disease frequencies measured by prevalences or rates are available for 
18 diseases from seven categories (cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, cancer, 
mental disorders, dementia, COPD and lower respiratory tract infections) at the 
regional levels of the 16 federal states and 96 regional planning areas. 
Severity distributions are provided on the national level stratified by age 
groups and gender. The results and documentation of methods are available at 
www.krankheitslage-deutschland.de (in German language).
CONCLUSION: Routine health insurance data are an important data source in the 
BURDEN 2020 project because regional figures and, in some cases, severity levels 
can be determined on the basis of a large number of cases. A comprehensive 
publication of results creates transparency and allows reutilisation of methods 
in further projects. Future research should extend burden of disease 
calculations to other diseases. In addition, there is an increasing demand for 
health data linkage.

Publisher: ZIEL DER STUDIE: Das Konzept der Krankheitslast erlaubt eine 
umfassende Analyse des Gesundheitszustands einer Bevölkerung. Als Kennzahlen 
werden verlorene Lebensjahre aufgrund von Mortalität (years of life lost, YLL) 
und Morbidität (years lived with disability, YLD) berechnet und im 
Summenindikator DALY (disability adjusted life years) zusammengefasst. Diese 
Indikatoren liefern eine Planungsgrundlage für Bereiche wie Prävention, 
Versorgung oder Bedarfsplanung. In dem vom Innovationsfonds geförderten Projekt 
BURDEN 2020 wird erstmals für Deutschland eine regionalisierte 
Krankheitslastberechnung in Anlehnung an die internationale „Global Burden of 
Disease“-Studie durchgeführt.
METHODIK: Zur Berechnung der YLD werden Informationen zur Häufigkeit von 
Krankheiten und deren Schweregradverteilungen benötigt. Dabei sind 
Krankenkassenroutinedaten eine wichtige Datengrundlage. In Expertentreffen 
wurden Falldefinitionen für 18 ausgewählte Krankheiten sowie Schweregrade bei 11 
der Krankheiten entwickelt. Auf dieser Basis wurden Krankheitshäufigkeiten vom 
WIdO unter Nutzung der Routinedaten der AOK-Versicherten ermittelt. Ein 
spezifisches Prävalenzkonzept berücksichtigt die Dynamik der offenen Kohorte der 
Versicherten. Die Hochrechnung der Ergebnisse ausgehend von der AOK auf die 
Gesamtbevölkerung erfolgte bei den Schweregraden bundesweit nach Alter und 
Geschlecht und bei den Krankheitshäufigkeiten zusätzlich morbiditätsadjustiert 
und regionalisiert.
ERGEBNISSE: Systematisch wurden für 18 Erkrankungen aus sieben Krankheitsgruppen 
(kardiovaskuläre Krankheiten, Diabetes, Krebs, psychische Störungen, Demenz, 
COPD und untere Atemwegsinfekte) die Krankheitshäufigkeiten (Prävalenzen oder 
Raten) bis auf Ebene der Bundesländer und Raumordnungsregionen ermittelt. 
Schweregradverteilungen liegen bundesweit nach Alter und Geschlecht vor. Die 
Ergebnisse und Methodendokumentation sind verfügbar unter 
www.krankheitslage-deutschland.de.
SCHLUSSFOLGERUNG: Krankenkassenroutinedaten stellen eine wichtige Datengrundlage 
im Projekt BURDEN 2020 dar, weil auf Basis der großen Fallzahlen regionale 
Kennzahlen und teilweise Schweregrade ermittelt werden können. Eine umfassende 
Publikation der Ergebnisse schafft Transparenz und soll die Nachnutzung in 
Folgeprojekten ermöglichen. Perspektivisch scheint es sinnvoll, die 
Krankheitslastberechnung auf weitere Krankheiten auszuweiten. Zudem wird der 
Bedarf nach datenschutzkonformer Verknüpfung von Krankenkassenroutinedaten mit 
weiteren Gesundheitsdatenbeständen steigen.

Thieme. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1055/a-1806-2115
PMID: 35738301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Die Autorinnen/Autoren geben an, dass kein 
Interessenkonflikt besteht.


815. J Behav Ther Exp Psychiatry. 2022 Sep;76:101744. doi: 
10.1016/j.jbtep.2022.101744. Epub 2022 Jun 4.

Expanding the scope, reach, and impact of evidence-based psychological 
treatments.

Kazdin AE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Yale University, 2 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, CT, 
06520-8205, USA. Electronic address: alan.kazdin@yale.edu.

The development and evaluation of evidence-based treatments (EBTs) for mental 
disorders represent an enormous advance with continued progress designed to 
understand the techniques and increase their use in clinical practice. This 
article suggests ways of expanding research along several fronts including the 
extension of the types of randomized controlled trials that are conducted, the 
use of more diverse samples to encompass different cultures and countries, the 
expansion of assessments to better reflect client functioning in everyday life, 
consideration of the impact of treatments for mental disorders on physical 
health, the careful evaluation of exceptional responders, the use of 
mixed-methods research, and the development of versions of EBTs that can be 
scaled. EBTs have been studied in well-controlled settings and extended to 
clinical settings, albeit less often. The least attention has been accorded 
their evaluation on a large scale to reach a greater portion of people in need 
of services but who do not receive any treatment.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbtep.2022.101744
PMID: 35738691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Can J Diabetes. 2022 Jul;46(5):473-479. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjd.2022.01.009.
Epub  2022 Feb 3.

Benefits and Harms of Deprescribing Antihyperglycemics for Adults With Type 2 
Diabetes: A Systematic Review.

Deng Z(1), Thompson W(2), Korenvain C(3), Lega IC(4), Farrell B(5), Lochnan 
H(6), McCarthy LM(7).

Author information:
(1)Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(2)Women's College Research Institute, Women's College Hospital, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada; Research Unit of General Practice, University of Southern 
Denmark, Odense, Denmark; Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology, and 
Therapeutics, Faculty of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada.
(3)Women's College Research Institute, Women's College Hospital, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(4)Women's College Research Institute, Women's College Hospital, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada; Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(5)Bruyère Research Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; Department of Family 
Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; School of Pharmacy, 
University of Waterloo, Kitchener, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism-Riverside 
Campus, The Ottawa Hospital, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada; Women's College Research Institute, Women's College Hospital, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada; Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada; Bruyère Research Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; School of 
Pharmacy, University of Waterloo, Kitchener, Ontario, Canada; Institute for 
Better Health, Trillium Health Partners, Mississauga, Ontario, Canada. 
Electronic address: lisa.mccarthy@utoronto.ca.

OBJECTIVES: Contemporary guidelines suggest relaxed glycemic targets in 
populations with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) at risk of hypoglycemia, 
including people with multimorbidity, limited life expectancy or frailty. 
However, overtreatment remains commonplace. To inform safe deprescribing, a 
previous systematic review investigated the benefits and harms of deprescribing 
antihyperglycemics, but identified only limited, very low-quality evidence. We 
sought to update that review and identify and describe newly published 
literature on the effects of deprescribing antihyperglycemics in older adults 
with T2DM.
METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE and the Cochrane Library (July 2015 to 
January 2021) for controlled studies published in English addressing the effects 
of deprescribing vs continuing antihyperglycemics in adults with T2DM. Two 
independent reviewers performed title, abstract and full-text screening, data 
extraction and risk-of-bias assessment. Cochrane's risk-of-bias tools, RoB 2 and 
ROBINS-I, were used. The findings were summarized narratively. GRADE (Grading of 
Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluations) was used to evaluate 
the evidence.
RESULTS: We identified 4 additional investigations-2 randomized controlled 
trials and 2 retrospective cohort studies. After deprescribing, 3 studies 
reported no clinically significant changes in glucose management and 2 studies 
reported reductions in adverse events (e.g. hypoglycemia, all-cause mortality 
and nonspine fractures). However, based on GRADE assessment, we found very low 
certainty of the evidence due to concerns of risk of bias (e.g. unmeasured 
confounding), imprecision, and indirectness.
CONCLUSIONS: Deprescribing antihyperglycemic medications in older adults with 
T2DM is likely feasible and safe, and benefits may outweigh the harms. However, 
the evidence indicates very low certainty. Additional deprescribing studies are 
needed with rigorous methodologies and reporting.

Copyright © 2022 Canadian Diabetes Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjd.2022.01.009
PMID: 35739041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Eur J Epidemiol. 2022 Sep;37(9):891-899. doi: 10.1007/s10654-022-00885-2.
Epub  2022 Jun 23.

The comparative mortality of an elite group in the long run of history: an 
observational analysis of politicians from 11 countries.

Clarke PM(1)(2), Tran-Duy A(3), Roope LSJ(4), Stiles JA(3), Barnett AG(5).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Nuffield Department of Population Health, 
University of Oxford, Oxford, OX3 7LF, UK. Philip.clarke@ndph.ox.ac.uk.
(2)Centre for Health Policy, Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, 
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia. Philip.clarke@ndph.ox.ac.uk.
(3)Centre for Health Policy, Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, 
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.
(4)Health Economics Research Centre, Nuffield Department of Population Health, 
University of Oxford, Oxford, OX3 7LF, UK.
(5)Australian Centre for Health Services Innovation and Centre for Healthcare 
Transformation, School of Public Health and Social Work, Queensland University 
of Technology, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.

This study aims to compare the mortality rate and life expectancy of politicians 
with those of the age and gender-matched general populations. This was an 
observational analysis of mortality rates of politicians (i.e. members of 
national parliaments with available data on dates of birth, death and election, 
gender, and life tables) in 11 developed countries. Politicians were followed 
from date of first election until either death or the last available year with 
life table data. Relative mortality differences were estimated using 
standardised mortality ratios (SMRs). Absolute inequalities were quantified as 
the difference in survival by deducting a population's remaining life expectancy 
from politicians' remaining life expectancy at age 45, estimated using Gompertz 
parametric proportional hazards models. We included 57,561 politicians (with 
follow-up ranging from 1816-2016 for France to 1949-2017 for Germany). In almost 
all countries politicians had similar rates of mortality to the general 
population in the early part of the twentieth century. Relative mortality and 
survival differences (favouring politicians) increased considerably over the 
course of the twentieth century, with recent SMRs ranging from 0.45 (95%CI 
0.41-0.50) in Italy to 0.82 (95%CI 0.69-0.95) in New Zealand. The peak life 
expectancy gaps ranged from 4.4 (95% CI, 3.5-5.4) years in the Netherlands to 
7.8 (95% CI, 7.2-8.4) years in the US. Our results show large relative and 
absolute inequalities favouring politicians in every country. In some countries, 
such as the US, relative inequalities are at the greatest level in over 
150 years.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-022-00885-2
PMCID: PMC9223251
PMID: 35739361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


818. Int J Emerg Med. 2022 Jun 23;15(1):29. doi: 10.1186/s12245-022-00431-7.

Medical complications of obesity: heightened importance in a COVID era.

Prendergast H(1), Tyo C(2), Colbert C(2), Kelley M(2), Pobee R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, 
IL, USA. hprender@uic.edu.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, 
IL, USA.

BACKGROUND: Obesity is a major public health problem associated with significant 
medical complications.
MAIN BODY: This review examines 8 primary diseases: type 2 diabetes, 
hypertension, dementia, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, polycystic ovarian 
syndrome, dyslipidemia, cancer, and their manifestations in obese patients. A 
total of 39 articles were used for this review. The authors conducted limited 
review, searching PubMed and Google Scholar databases using a combination of key 
words "COVID-19" or "SARS-COV2", "type 2 diabetes", "hypertension", "dementia", 
"non-alcoholic fatty liver disease", "polycystic ovarian syndrome", 
"dyslipidemia", "cancer", and "obesity". No specific date limitation was used. 
Obesity exacerbates many medical conditions and has recently been identified as 
an independent risk factor for COVID-19 severity. This sets obesity at the 
pinnacle of all disease complications. The long-term impact of obesity ranges 
from financial burden on the health system, lower life expectancy, and reduced 
survival rates.
CONCLUSION: Obesity is an important modifiable risk factor. There is the need 
for healthcare providers to understand the medical complications associated with 
obesity to optimize patient care.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12245-022-00431-7
PMCID: PMC9219148
PMID: 35739488

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


819. BMC Pulm Med. 2022 Jun 23;22(1):244. doi: 10.1186/s12890-022-02029-4.

Podotimod in pediatric recurrent respiratory tract infections: a cost-utility 
analysis.

Buendía JA(1)(2), Guerrero Patiño D(3), Lindarte EF(3).

Author information:
(1)Research Group in Pharmacology and Toxicology "INFARTO", Department of 
Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Antioquia, Medellin, Colombia. 
jefferson.buendia@gmail.com.
(2)Research Group in Pharmacology and Toxicology "INFARTO", Department of 
Pharmacology and Toxicology, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Antioquia, 
Medellin, Colombia. jefferson.buendia@gmail.com.
(3)Research Group in Pharmacology and Toxicology "INFARTO", Department of 
Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Antioquia, Medellin, Colombia.

INTRODUCTION: Despite the growing evidence on efficacy, few economic evaluations 
have evaluated the cost-utility of Pidotimod (PDT) supplementation to decrease 
the probability of recurrent respiratory tract infections in children. This 
study aimed to determine the cost-utility of PDT to reduce the incidence rate of 
recurrent respiratory tract infections in children.
METHODS: A decision tree model was used to estimate the cost and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) of PDT in a patient aged 1-6 with a history 
of recurrent respiratory tract infections. Multiple sensitivity analyses were 
conducted to evaluate the robustness of the model. Cost-effectiveness was 
evaluated at a willingness-to-pay (WTP) value of US$5180.
RESULTS: The base-case analysis showed that compared with placebo, PDT was 
associated with lower costs and higher QALYs. The expected annual cost per 
patient with PDT was US$797 (CI 95% US$794- US$801) and with placebo was US$1175 
(CI 95% US$1169- US$1181). The QALYs per person estimated with PDT was 0.95 (CI 
95% 0.94-0.95) and with placebo was 0.94 (CI 95% 0.94-0.94). The NMB with PDT 
was US$ 4121 (CI 95% 4114-4127) and with placebo was US$ 3710 (CI 95% 
3700-3720). This position of absolute dominance (PDT has lower costs and higher 
QALYs than placebo) of PDT it is unnecessary to estimate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion our study shows that PDT is a cost-effective strategy 
to reduce the incidence rate of recurrent respiratory tract infections in 
children. Our study provides evidence that should be used by decision-makers to 
improve clinical practice guidelines.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12890-022-02029-4
PMCID: PMC9219210
PMID: 35739542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


820. BMC Health Serv Res. 2022 Jun 23;22(1):814. doi: 10.1186/s12913-022-08220-x.

The cost-effectiveness of a proportionate parenting programme for primary 
caregivers and their child: an economic evaluation using evidence from the E-SEE 
Trial.

Cox E(1), Walker S(2), Blower S(3), Sampaio F(4), Bywater T(3), Richardson G(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK. 
edward.cox@york.ac.uk.
(2)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.
(3)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, York, UK.
(4)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, 
Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Behavioural and mental disorders have become a public health crisis; 
averting mental ill-health in early years can achieve significant longer-term 
health benefits and cost savings. This study assesses whether the Enhancing 
Social-Emotional Health and Wellbeing in the Early Years (E-SEE-Steps)-a 
proportionate universal delivery model comprising the Incredible Babies book 
(IY-B) and the Incredible Years Infant (IY-I) and Toddler (IY-T) parenting 
programmes is cost-effective compared to services as usual (SAU) for the primary 
caregiver, child and dyad.
METHODS: Using UK data for 339 primary caregivers from the E-SEE trial, we 
conducted a within-trial economic evaluation assessing the cost-effectiveness of 
E-SEE Steps. Health outcomes were expressed in quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALY) and costs in UK pounds sterling (2018-19). Missing data were populated 
via multiple imputation and costs and QALYs discounted at 3.5% per annum. 
Cost-effectiveness results were conducted for primary caregivers, children and 
dyad using econometric modelling to control for patient co-variables. 
Uncertainty was explored through scenario and sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: The average cost of E-SEE Steps intervention was £458.50 per dyad. 
E-SEE Steps was associated with modest gains in primary caregiver HRQoL but 
minor decrements in child HRQoL compared to SAU. For primary caregivers, E-SEE 
Steps was more effective (0.034 QALYs) and more costly (£446) compared to SAU, 
with a corresponding incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £13,011 per 
QALY. In children, E-SEE Steps was strictly dominated with poorer outcomes 
(-0.005 QALYs) and greater costs (£178) relative to SAU. QALY gains in primary 
caregivers exceeded those QALY losses found in children, meaning E-SEE Steps was 
more effective (0.031 QALYs) and costly (£621) for the dyad (ICER: £20,062 per 
QALY). All scenario analyses found E-SEE Steps cost-effective for the dyad at a 
£30,000 per QALY threshold. Sensitivity analyses found significant cost 
reductions from expansions in programme delivery and attendance.
CONCLUSIONS: E-SEE Steps achieved modest health gains in primary caregivers but 
small negative effects on children and was more costly than SAU. E-SEE Steps 
appears cost-effective for the dyad, but the results should be interpreted with 
caution given the potential detrimental impact on children.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN11079129 ; Pre participant trial enrolment, 
11/05/2015.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-022-08220-x
PMCID: PMC9219217
PMID: 35739551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: TB, SB and GR are supported by the National 
Institute for Health Research Applied Research Collaboration Yorkshire and 
Humber. All authors declare no other competing interests.


821. BMC Health Serv Res. 2022 Jun 24;22(1):819. doi: 10.1186/s12913-022-08187-9.

Cost-effectiveness of a transdiagnostic psychotherapy program for youth with 
common mental health problems.

Wolf RT(1)(2), Jeppesen P(3)(4)(5), Pedersen MMA(3), Puggaard LB(3), Thastum 
M(6), Bilenberg N(7)(8), Thomsen PH(9)(10), Silverman WK(11), Plessen KJ(3)(12), 
Neumer SP(13)(14), Correll CU(15)(16)(17)(18), Pagsberg AK(3)(4), Gyrd-Hansen 
D(19).

Author information:
(1)Child and Adolescent Mental Health Center, Mental Health Services - Capital 
Region of Denmark, Copenhagen, Denmark. rasmus.trap.wolf@regionh.dk.
(2)Danish Centre for Health Economics, Department of Public Health, University 
of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark. rasmus.trap.wolf@regionh.dk.
(3)Child and Adolescent Mental Health Center, Mental Health Services - Capital 
Region of Denmark, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(5)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Copenhagen University Hospital 
- Psychiatry Region Zealand, Smedegade 16, 4000, Roskilde, Denmark.
(6)Centre for the Psychological Treatment of Children and Adolescents, 
Department of Psychology and Behavioural Sciences, Aarhus BSS, Aarhus 
University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(7)Department for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Mental Health Services in the 
Region of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(8)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, 
Denmark.
(9)Research Center at the Department for Child- and Adolescent Psychiatry, 
Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby, Denmark.
(10)Institute of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(11)Anxiety and Mood Disorders Program, Yale Child Study Center, Yale School of 
Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.
(12)Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, 
Lausanne University Hospital CHUV, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(13)Centre for Child and Adolescent Mental Health, Oslo, Norway.
(14)The Arctic University of Norway, Centre for Child and Youth Mental Health 
and Child Welfare, North Norway (RKBU North), Tromsø, Norway.
(15)Department of Psychiatry and Molecular Medicine, Donald and Barbara Zucker 
School of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell, Hempstead, NY, USA.
(16)Department of Psychiatry, The Zucker Hillside Hospital, Glen Oaks, NY, USA.
(17)Center for Psychiatric Neuroscience, Feinstein Institute for Medical 
Research, Manhasset, NY, USA.
(18)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Charité Universitätsmedizin, 
Berlin, Germany.
(19)Danish Centre for Health Economics, Department of Public Health, University 
of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.

OBJECTIVES: Our objective was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the 
transdiagnostic psychotherapy program Mind My Mind (MMM) for youth with common 
mental health problems using a cost-utility analysis (CUA) framework and data 
from a randomized controlled trial. Furthermore, we analyzed the impact of the 
choice of informant for both quality-of-life reporting and preference weights on 
the Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio (ICER).
METHODS: A total of 396 school-aged (6-16 years) youth took part in the 6-month 
trial carried out in Denmark. CUAs were carried out for the trial period and 
four one-year extrapolation scenarios. Costs were based on a combination of 
budget and self-reported costs. Youths and parents were asked to report on the 
youth's quality-of-life three times during the trial using the Child Health 
Utility 9D (CHU9D). Parental-reported CHU9D was used in the base case together 
with preference weights of a youth population. Analyses using self-reported 
CHU9D and preference weights of an adult population were also carried out.
RESULTS: The analysis of the trial period resulted in an ICER of €170,465. The 
analyses of the one-year scenarios resulted in ICERs between €23,653 and 
€50,480. The ICER increased by 24% and 71% compared to the base case when using 
self-reported CHU9D and adult preference weights, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The MMM intervention has the potential to be cost-effective, but the 
ICER is dependent on the duration of the treatment effects. Results varied 
significantly with the choice of informant and the choice of preference weights 
indicating that both factors should be considered when assessing CUA involving 
youth.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-022-08187-9
PMCID: PMC9229821
PMID: 35739556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: RTW, LBP, MMAP, AKP, WKS, KJP, SPN, DGH, MT, NB, 
PHT and PJ declare that they have no conflict of interest. CUC has been a 
consultant and/or advisor to or has received honoraria from: Acadia, Alkermes, 
Allergan, Angelini, Axsome, Gedeon Richter, Gerson Lehrman Group, IntraCellular 
Therapies, Janssen/J&J, LB Pharma, Lundbeck, MedAvante-ProPhase, Medscape, 
Neurocrine, Noven, Otsuka, Pfizer, Recordati, Rovi, Sumitomo Dainippon, 
Sunovion, Supernus, Takeda, and Teva. He has provided expert testimony for 
Janssen and Otsuka. He served on a Data Safety Monitoring Board for Lundbeck, 
Rovi, Supernus, and Teva. He received royalties from UpToDate and grant support 
from Janssen and Takeda. He is also a stock option holder of LB Pharma.


822. J Basic Microbiol. 2022 Aug;62(8):948-962. doi: 10.1002/jobm.202100636. Epub
 2022 Jun 23.

A simple approach for random genomic insertion-deletions using ambiguous 
sequences in Escherichia coli.

Shekhar C(1), Maeda T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Functions Engineering, Graduate School of Life 
Science and Systems Engineering, Kyushu Institute of Technology, Kitakyushu, 
Japan.

Escherichia coli K-12, being one of the best understood and thoroughly analyzed 
organisms, is the preferred platform for genetic and biochemical research. Among 
all genetic engineering approaches applied on E. coli, the homologous 
recombination approach is versatile and precise, which allows engineering genes 
or large segments of the chromosome directly by using polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR) products or synthetic oligonucleotides. The previously explained 
approaches for random insertion and deletions were reported as technically not 
easy and laborious. This study, first, finds the minimum length of homology 
extension that is efficient and accurate for homologous recombination, as 30 nt. 
Second, proposes an approach utilizing PCR products flanking ambiguous 
NNN-sequence (30-nt) extensions, which facilitate the homologous recombination 
to recombine them at multiple regions on the genome and generate 
insertion-deletion mutations. Further analysis found that these mutations were 
varying in number, that is, multiple genomic regions were deleted. Moreover, 
evaluation of the phenotype of all the multiple random 
insertion-deletion mutants demonstrated no significant changes in the normal 
metabolism of bacteria. This study not only presents the efficiency of ambiguous 
sequences in making random deletion mutations, but also demonstrates their 
further applicability in genomics.

© 2022 Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/jobm.202100636
PMID: 35739617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Int J Stroke. 2023 Apr;18(4):416-425. doi: 10.1177/17474930221111898. Epub
2022  Aug 24.

Cost-effectiveness of testing for CYP2C19 loss-of-function carriers following 
transient ischemic attack/minor stroke: A Canadian perspective.

Micieli A(1), Singh N(1), Jahn B(2), Siebert U(2)(3)(4), Menon BK(1), Demchuk 
AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Cumming School of Medicine, University 
of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(2)Institute of Public Health, Medical Decision Making and Health Technology 
Assessment, Department of Public Health, Health Services Research and Health 
Technology Assessment, UMIT -University for Health Sciences, Medical Informatics 
and Technology, Hall in Tirol, Austria.
(3)Program on Cardiovascular Research, Institute for Technology Assessment and 
Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Center for Health Decision Science, Departments of Epidemiology and Health 
Policy & Management, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: The CHANCE-2 study compared 3 weeks of aspirin-ticagrelor to 
aspirin-clopidogrel in CYP2C19 loss-of-function (LOF) allele carriers following 
a transient ischemic attack (TIA)/minor stroke and demonstrated a modestly lower 
risk of stroke recurrence with aspirin-ticagrelor. This stroke protection was 
largely for minor stroke and came at an increased risk of bleeding. The 
cost-effectiveness of implementing testing for LOF allele status to personalize 
antiplatelet regimen for secondary stroke prevention after a TIA/minor stroke in 
the Canadian health care context is unknown.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis using a decision-analytic Markov cohort 
model with a lifetime horizon was performed to determine the costs and health 
benefits of testing for LOF allele status compared with no testing (current 
standard of care). The population of interest was patients living in Canada who 
suffered a TIA/minor stroke. Outcomes of interest were life-years gained (LYG), 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained, costs (reported in 2022 Canadian 
dollars), and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). We adopted the 
perspective of the Federal, Provincial, and Territorial Ministries of Health and 
used a 1.5% annual discount rate. Sensitivity analyses were performed to assess 
uncertainty.
RESULTS: Compared to standard of care, LOF allele testing leads to 0.14 LYG 
(undiscounted), 0.12 QALYs gained (undiscounted), and additional lifetime costs 
of CAD$432 (discounted) per patient. The ICER of the LOF allele testing strategy 
is CAD$4310 per QALY gained compared with standard of care. The probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses demonstrated that LOF allele testing was cost-effective in 
more than 99.99% of simulations using a willingness-to-pay threshold of 
CAD$50,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: Based on available evidence, testing for LOF allele followed by 
short duration 3 weeks of aspirin-ticagrelor compared to standard-of-care 
aspirin-clopidogrel can lead to prolonged life and improved quality of life and 
can be considered very cost-effective when compared with other well-accepted 
technologies in health and medicine.

DOI: 10.1177/17474930221111898
PMID: 35739635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Biomedicines. 2022 May 31;10(6):1293. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines10061293.

Targeting Tumor Cells Overexpressing the Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 
3 with Potent Drug Conjugates Based on Affibody Molecules.

Rinne SS(1), Yin W(2), Borras AM(2), Abouzayed A(1), Leitao CD(2), Vorobyeva 
A(3), Löfblom J(2), Ståhl S(2), Orlova A(1)(3)(4), Gräslund T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Uppsala University, 751 23 Uppsala, 
Sweden.
(2)Department of Protein Science, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, 114 17 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University, 752 37 
Uppsala, Sweden.
(4)Science for Life Laboratory, Uppsala University, 752 37 Uppsala, Sweden.

Increasing evidence suggests that therapy targeting the human epidermal growth 
factor receptor 3 (HER3) could be a viable route for targeted cancer therapy. 
Here, we studied a novel drug conjugate, ZHER3-ABD-mcDM1, consisting of a 
HER3-targeting affibody molecule, coupled to the cytotoxic tubulin 
polymerization inhibitor DM1, and an albumin-binding domain for in vivo 
half-life extension. ZHER3-ABD-mcDM1 showed a strong affinity to the 
extracellular domain of HER3 (KD 6 nM), and an even stronger affinity (KD 0.2 
nM) to the HER3-overexpressing pancreatic carcinoma cell line, BxPC-3. The drug 
conjugate showed a potent cytotoxic effect on BxPC-3 cells with an IC50 value of 
7 nM. Evaluation of a radiolabeled version, [99mTc]Tc-ZHER3-ABD-mcDM1, showed a 
relatively high rate of internalization, with a 27% internalized fraction after 
8 h. Further in vivo evaluation showed that it could target BxPC-3 (pancreatic 
carcinoma) and DU145 (prostate carcinoma) xenografts in mice, with an uptake 
peaking at 6.3 ± 0.4% IA/g at 6 h post-injection for the BxPC-3 xenografts. The 
general biodistribution showed uptake in the liver, lung, salivary gland, 
stomach, and small intestine, organs known to express murine ErbB3 naturally. 
The results from the study show that ZHER3-ABD-mcDM1 is a highly potent and 
selective drug conjugate with the ability to specifically target HER3 
overexpressing cells. Further pre-clinical and clinical development is 
discussed.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines10061293
PMCID: PMC9219639
PMID: 35740315

Conflict of interest statement: S.S.R., W.Y., A.M.B., A.A., C.D.L., A.V., J.L. 
and T.G. declare no conflict of interest. S.S. and A.O. are minority 
shareholders in Affibody AB. The funders/company had no role in the design of 
the study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the 
writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to publish the results.


825. Cancers (Basel). 2022 Jun 10;14(12):2870. doi: 10.3390/cancers14122870.

Young-Onset Gastrointestinal Adenocarcinoma Incidence and Survival Trends in the 
Northern Territory, Australia, with Emphasis on Indigenous Peoples.

Shepherdson M(1), Leemaqz S(2)(3), Singh G(4), Ryder C(2)(3)(5), Ullah S(2), 
Canuto K(6), Young JP(7)(8)(9), Price TJ(7)(8)(9), McKinnon RA(2)(3), Pandol 
SJ(10), Roberts CT(2)(3), Barreto SG(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Flinders Medical Center, Bedford Park, Adelaide, SA 5042, Australia.
(2)College of Medicine and Public Health, Flinders University, Adelaide, SA 
5001, Australia.
(3)Flinders Health and Medical Research Institute, Adelaide, SA 5042, Australia.
(4)Menzies School of Health Research, Darwin, NT 0810, Australia.
(5)The George Institute for Global Health, Newtown, NSW 2042, Australia.
(6)Rural and Remote Health, College of Medicine and Public Health, Flinders 
University, Darwin, NT 0810, Australia.
(7)Department of Haematology and Oncology, The Queen Elizabeth Hospital, 
Woodville South, SA 5011, Australia.
(8)SAHMRI Colorectal Node, Basil Hetzel Institute, Woodville South, SA 5011, 
Australia.
(9)Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA 
5005, Australia.
(10)Division of Digestive and Liver Diseases, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los 
Angeles, CA 90048, USA.

Background and Aims: A concerning rise in incidence of young-onset cancers 
globally led to the examination of trends in incidence and survival of 
gastrointestinal (GI) adenocarcinomas in the Northern Territory (NT), Australia, 
over a 28-year period, with a special emphasis on Indigenous peoples. Methods: 
This cross-sectional analysis of a prospective longitudinal database, NT Cancer 
Registry (1990−2017), includes all reported cases of GI (oesophagus, gastric, 
small intestinal, pancreas, colon, and rectum) adenocarcinomas. Poisson 
regression was used to estimate incidence ratio ratios, and survival was 
modelled using Cox proportional hazard models separately for people aged 18−50 
years and >50 years. Results: A total of 1608 cases of GI adenocarcinoma were 
recorded during the time of the study. While the overall incidence in people 
18−50 years remained unchanged over this time (p = 0.51), the rate in 
individuals aged >50 years decreased (IRR = 0.65 (95% CI 0.56−0.75; p < 
0.0001)). Incidence rates were significantly less in females >50 years (IRR = 
0.67 95% CI 0.59−0.75; p < 0.0001), and their survival was significantly better 
(HR = 0.84 (95%CI 0.72−0.98; p < 0.03)) compared to males. Overall survival 
across all GI subsites improved in both age cohorts, especially between 2010 and 
2017 (HR = 0.45 (95%CI 0.29−0.72; p < 0.0007) and HR = 0.64 (95%CI 0.52−0.78; p 
< 0.0001), respectively) compared to 1990−1999, driven by an improvement in 
survival in colonic adenocarcinoma alone, as the survival remained unchanged in 
other GI subsites. The incidence was significantly lower in Indigenous patients 
compared to non-Indigenous patients, in both age cohorts (18−50 years IRR = 0.68 
95% CI 0.51−0.91; p < 0.009 and >50 years IRR = 0.48 95% CI 0.40−0.57; p < 
0.0001). However, Indigenous patients had worse survival rates (18−50 years HR = 
2.06 95% CI 1.36−3.11; p < 0.0007 and >50 years HR = 1.66 95% CI 1.32−2.08; p < 
0.0001). Conclusions: There is a trend towards an increased incidence of 
young-onset GI adenocarcinomas in the NT. Young Indigenous patients have lower 
incidence but worse survival across all GI subsites, highlighting significant 
health inequities in life expectancy. Targeted, culturally safe Indigenous 
community-focussed programs are needed for early detection and patient-centred 
management of GI adenocarcinomas.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14122870
PMCID: PMC9220984
PMID: 35740536

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


826. Cancers (Basel). 2022 Jun 20;14(12):3025. doi: 10.3390/cancers14123025.

Sexual Dysfunction of Patients with Diffuse Low-Grade Glioma: A Qualitative 
Review of a Neglected Concern.

Lombard A(1)(2), Duffau H(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire of Liège, 4000 
Liège, Belgium.
(2)Laboratory of Developmental Neurobiology, GIGA-Neurosciences, University of 
Liège, 4032 Liège, Belgium.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Gui de Chauliac Hospital, 34295 Montpellier, 
France.
(4)Team "Neuroplasticity, Stem Cells and Glial Tumors", Institute of Functional 
Genomics, INSERM U-1191, University of Montpellier, 34090 Montpellier, France.

Diffuse low-grade gliomas (LGG) commonly affect young adults and display a slow 
evolution, with a life expectancy that can surpass 15 years, thanks to 
multimodal therapeutic management. Therefore, preservation of quality of life 
(QoL), including sexual health, is mandatory. We systematically searched 
available medical databases of Pubmed, Cochrane, and Scopus for studies that 
reported data on sexual activity or dysfunction (SD) in LGG patients. We 
analyzed results to determine incidence of SD and its association with QoL in 
this population. Three studies focused on SD incidence in patients presenting 
