PMCID: PMC9188068
PMID: 35690787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


643. Int J Food Microbiol. 2022 Sep 16;377:109782. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2022.109782. Epub 2022 Jun 7.

Utilization of the antagonistic yeast, Wickerhamomyces anomalus, combined with 
UV-C to manage postharvest rot of potato tubers caused by Alternaria tenuissima.

Leng J(1), Dai Y(1), Qiu D(2), Zou Y(3), Wu X(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Landscape Architecture and Life Science/Institute of Special 
Plants, Chongqing University of Arts and Sciences, Yongchuan, Chongqing 402160, 
China.
(2)Yantai Agricultural Technology Extension Center, Yantai, Shandong 264001, 
China.
(3)Yantai Lvyun Biotechnology Co., Ltd, Yantai, Shandong 264003, China.
(4)Department of Plant Pathology, College of Plant Protection, China 
Agricultural University, Beijing 100193, China. Electronic address: 
wuxuehong@cau.edu.cn.

Postharvest rot of potato tubers caused by fungal pathogens is the main cause of 
significant economic losses, while also raising potential food safety issues. 
Integrated disease management, utilizing bio-safe and eco-friendly methods, 
represents a sustainable strategy for reducing postharvest losses in crops, 
including potato. In the current study, the application of the antagonistic 
yeast, Wickerhamomyces anomalus, combined with a UV-C treatment was evaluated 
for the management of postharvest Alternaria rot of potato tubers, caused by 
Alternaria tenuissima. Both W. anomalus and UV-C as individual treatments 
reduced the size of A. tenuissima infections on potato tubers, relative to the 
control, while the combined treatment of W. anomalus and UV-C exhibited the 
highest level of inhibition. W. anomalus or UV-C alone, and especially when used 
in combination, induced the expression of defense-related genes, including 
polyphenol oxidase, peroxidase, and β-1,3-glucanase, and also increased the 
level of flavonoids and lignin in potato tubers. Our findings indicate that the 
mechanism of action by which UV-C enhances the biocontrol effect of W. anomalus 
against postharvest Alternaria rot includes the activation of defense-related 
response in potato tubers. The integration of biocontrol agents and physical 
treatments (e.g., UV-C) represents an effective, eco-friendly hurdle technology 
for managing postharvest rot in potato.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2022.109782
PMID: 35691138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Lancet. 2022 Jun 18;399(10343):2310-2324. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(22)00536-0.  Epub 2022 Jun 9.

Thalassaemia.

Kattamis A(1), Kwiatkowski JL(2), Aydinok Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Paediatric Haematology-Oncology, First Department of Paediatrics, 
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece. Electronic 
address: ankatt@med.uoa.gr.
(2)Division of Haematology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, 
PA, USA; Department of Paediatrics, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(3)Department of Paediatric Heamatology and Oncology, Ege University School of 
Medicine, Izmir, Turkey.

Thalassaemia is a diverse group of genetic disorders with a worldwide 
distribution affecting globin chain synthesis. The pathogenesis of thalassaemia 
lies in the unbalanced globin chain production, leading to ineffective 
erythropoiesis, increased haemolysis, and deranged iron homoeostasis. The 
clinical phenotype shows heterogeneity, ranging from close to normal without 
complications to severe requiring lifelong transfusion support. Conservative 
treatment with transfusion and iron chelation has transformed the natural 
history of thalassaemia major into a chronic disease with a prolonged life 
expectancy, albeit with co-morbidities and substantial disease burden. Curative 
therapy with allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation is advocated 
for suitable patients. The understanding of the pathogenesis of the disease is 
guiding therapeutic advances. Novel agents have shown efficacy in improving 
anaemia and transfusion burden, and initial results from gene therapy approaches 
are promising. Despite scientific developments, worldwide inequality in the 
access of health resources is a major concern, because most patients live in 
underserved areas.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(22)00536-0
PMID: 35691301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests AK reports consultation 
fees from Agios Pharmaceuticals, Amgen, Ionis Pharmaceuticals, and Vifor; 
consultation fees, research funding, honoraria, and travel support from Bristol 
Myers Squibb; honoraria from Chiesi; consultancy and honoraria from Crispr 
Therpeutics and Vertex Pharmaceuticals; and consultation fees, honoraria, and 
research funding from Novartis, outside of the submitted work. YA reports 
research funding and consultation fees from Bristol Myers Squibb; research 
funding and honoraria from Cerus and Novartis; consultation fees from CRISPR 
Therapeutics and SLN Therapeutics; and research funding from Imara, Ionis 
Pharmaceuticals, LaJolla, Protagonist, and Resonance Health, outside of the 
submitted work. JLK reports consultation fees from Agios Pharmaceuticals, 
Bristol Myers Squibb, and Silence Therapeutics; research funding from 
Bioverativ, Crispr Therpeutics and Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Editas, Sangamo, and 
Terumo BCT; and consultation fees and research funding from bluebird bio, Imara, 
Chiesi, and Forma Therapeutics, outside of the submitted work. JLK also 
acknowledges grant funding from the National Institutes of Health.


645. J Genet Genomics. 2022 Dec;49(12):1114-1126. doi: 10.1016/j.jgg.2022.06.001.
 Epub 2022 Jun 9.

Long-term correction of hemophilia B through CRISPR/Cas9 induced 
homology-independent targeted integration.

Chen X(1), Niu X(1), Liu Y(2), Zheng R(3), Yang L(1), Lu J(1), Yin S(1), Wei 
Y(1), Pan J(1), Sayed A(4), Ma X(1), Liu M(1), Jing F(5), Liu M(1), Hu J(6), 
Wang L(7), Li D(8).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Frontiers Science Center of Genome Editing and Cell Therapy, 
Shanghai Key Laboratory of Regulatory Biology, Institute of Biomedical Sciences 
and School of Life Sciences, East China Normal University, Shanghai 200241, 
China.
(2)The MOE Key Laboratory of Cell Proliferation and Differentiation, Genome 
Editing Research Center, School of Life Sciences, Peking-Tsinghua Center for 
Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.
(3)Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai 
200092, China.
(4)Biochemistry Laboratory, Chemistry Department, Faculty of Science, Assiut 
University, Assiut 71516, Egypt.
(5)Shanghai Turtle Technology Co., Shanghai 201900, China.
(6)The MOE Key Laboratory of Cell Proliferation and Differentiation, Genome 
Editing Research Center, School of Life Sciences, Peking-Tsinghua Center for 
Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China. Electronic address: 
hujz@pku.edu.cn.
(7)Shanghai Frontiers Science Center of Genome Editing and Cell Therapy, 
Shanghai Key Laboratory of Regulatory Biology, Institute of Biomedical Sciences 
and School of Life Sciences, East China Normal University, Shanghai 200241, 
China. Electronic address: lrwang@bio.ecnu.edu.cn.
(8)Shanghai Frontiers Science Center of Genome Editing and Cell Therapy, 
Shanghai Key Laboratory of Regulatory Biology, Institute of Biomedical Sciences 
and School of Life Sciences, East China Normal University, Shanghai 200241, 
China. Electronic address: dlli@bio.ecnu.edu.cn.

CRISPR/Cas9-mediated site-specific insertion of exogenous genes holds potential 
for clinical applications. However, it is still infeasible because homologous 
recombination (HR) is inefficient, especially for non-dividing cells. To 
overcome the challenge, we report that a homology-independent targeted 
integration (HITI) strategy is used for permanent integration of 
high-specificity-activity Factor IX variant (F9 Padua, R338L) at the albumin 
(Alb) locus in a novel hemophilia B (HB) rat model. The knock-in efficiency 
reaches 3.66%, as determined by droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). The clotting time 
is reduced to a normal level four weeks after treatment, and the circulating 
factor IX (FIX) level is gradually increased up to 52% of the normal level over 
nine months even after partial hepatectomy, demonstrating the amelioration of 
hemophilia. Through primer-extension-mediated sequencing (PEM-seq), no 
significant off-target effect is detected. This study not only provides a novel 
model for HB but also identifies a promising therapeutic approach for rare 
inherited diseases.

Copyright © 2022 Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, and Genetics Society of China. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgg.2022.06.001
PMID: 35691554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


646. Asia Pac J Clin Oncol. 2023 Feb;19(1):196-205. doi: 10.1111/ajco.13800. Epub
 2022 Jun 12.

Current status and temporal trend of disease burden of thyroid cancer in China 
from 1990 to 2019.

Zhang MN(1)(2)(3), Liang XY(4), Li MT(1)(2)(3), Zhi XY(1)(2)(3), Yan 
QY(1)(2)(3), Zhu H(1)(2)(3), Xie J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
(2)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin, 
China.
(3)Center for International Collaborative Research on Environment, Nutrition and 
Public Health, Tianjin, China.
(4)Tianjin Medical University General Hospital, Tianjin, China.

OBJECTIVE: Thyroid cancer has been an increasingly high-profile public health 
issue. Comprehensive assessment for its disease burden seems particularly 
important for understanding health priorities and hinting high-risk populations.
METHODS: We estimated the age-sex-specific thyroid cancer burden and its 
temporal trend in China from 1990 to 2019 by following the general methods from 
the global burden of disease (GBDs) 2019 Study. And Joinpoint regression model, 
the Cox-Stuart trend test, and Cochran-Armitage test were applied for the 
analysis of temporal and age trend. The Mantel-Haenszel statistical method was 
used to compare the gender difference.
RESULTS: From 1990 to 2019, the age-standardized incidence rate of thyroid 
cancer in China has almost doubled to 2.05 per 100,000. Although the mortality 
rate and DALY rate kept leveling off, they presented a downtrend among females, 
while an upward trend in males. While the average annual percentage changes of 
those metrics all became deline since 2010 than the previous years. With age 
advancing, the rates of incidence, mortality, and DALYs for both sexes all 
presented linear fashion increases, which was particularly typical among males.
CONCLUSION: Given the serious trend and gender-age heterogeneity of Chinese 
thyroid cancer burden, male gender and advanced age may be related to poor 
prognosis of thyroid cancer, and strengthening primary prevention and exploring 
the underlying risk factors should be among the top priorities.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ajco.13800
PMID: 35692103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Front Public Health. 2022 May 25;10:871144. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.871144. 
eCollection 2022.

Exposure of Individuals in Europe to Air Pollution and Related Health Effects.

Li N(1), Friedrich R(1), Schieberle C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department Technology Assessment and Environment, Institute of Energy 
Economics and Rational Energy Use, University of Stuttgart, Stuttgart, Germany.

Air pollutants, especially PM2.5 and NO2, are associated with adverse health 
impacts, as shown by numerous epidemiological studies. In these studies, the 
observed health impacts have been correlated with ambient concentrations, mainly 
taken from air pollution monitoring stations. However, individuals are harmed by 
the pollutants in the inhaled air at the places where they stay, and thus, the 
concentration of pollutants in the inhaled air is obviously a better indicator 
for health impacts than the ambient concentration at a monitoring station. 
Furthermore, the current method for estimating the occurrence of chronic 
diseases uses annual average concentrations as indicator. However, according to 
current hypotheses, chronic diseases, especially chronic mortality, develop 
through the exposure to pollutants over many years, maybe up to a full lifetime. 
Thus in this study, a methodology and a computer-aided probabilistic model 
system are described for calculating the exposure of a person to PM2.5 and NO2 
over the whole lifetime where the person is characterized by attributes such as 
age, gender, place of residence and work as well as socioeconomic status. The 
model system contains a "life course trajectory model", which estimates the 
course of the education and professional development for the past lifetime of a 
person, whose present socioeconomic status is known. Furthermore, a 
"time-activity model" estimates at which places (so-called micro-environments) a 
person with a certain socioeconomic status stayed and how long he stayed there 
within a certain year. The concentrations of air pollutants in indoor 
environments are calculated with a "mass-balance model", the outdoor 
concentrations with "atmospheric models". Finally, the results of these models 
are combined to estimate the annual average exposure for the life years of 
individuals and population subgroups. The exposure is then used to estimate and 
monetize health impacts. The exposures and health impacts for a number of 
population subgroups in Europe are presented. For instance, a European citizen, 
who was 70 years old in 2015, has been exposed to around 25 μg/m3 of PM2.5 
during his lifetime above the age of 30, which is associated with a reduction of 
life expectancy of 13.4 days per year of exposure above 30.

Copyright © 2022 Li, Friedrich and Schieberle.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.871144
PMCID: PMC9174982
PMID: 35692351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


648. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2022 May 25;13:853623. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2022.853623. eCollection 2022.

Burden of Prostate Cancer in China, 1990-2019: Findings From the 2019 Global 
Burden of Disease Study.

Wang F(1)(2), Wang C(1)(2), Xia H(1)(2), Lin Y(1)(2), Zhang D(1)(2)(3), Yin 
P(4), Yao S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(2)Institute of Anesthesia and Critical Care Medicine, Union Hospital, Tongji 
Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(3)Jinyintan Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science 
and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(4)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, China.

Our study is the first to illustrate the age and geographic distribution 
differences in the epidemiology of prostate cancer from 1990 to 2019 in China. 
Prostate cancer (PC) is a malignant tumor derived from prostate epithelial cells 
and is one of the most commonly diagnosed cancers in men. In recent years, the 
global incidence and the annual deaths number of PC showed a continuous 
increase, which has caused a huge disease burden on human health. In terms of 
the global average, the incidence and mortality of PC in China are relatively 
low. However, the age-standardized incidence rate of PC was 17.3/100,000 in 2019 
in China, with a 95.2% rise compared to 1990, while the global growth rate of 
incidence rate over the same period is 13.2%. This showed that the development 
trend of PC in China is not optimistic. There are few precise studies on the 
epidemiology of PC in China. After the general analysis strategy used in the 
Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2019, we 
elaborated on the incidence, mortality, and disability-adjusted life-years 
(DALYs) and the corresponding age-standardized rate of the Chinese PC population 
from 1990 to 2019 according to different ages and provinces. We used joinpoint 
regression analysis to estimate the incidence and mortality trends. Our analysis 
shows that elderly people over 80 are still the main focus of incidence and 
death. The epidemiology and disease burden of PC of different provinces in China 
show obvious regional differences, and some certain provinces such as HongKong, 
Macao, and Zhejiang should be paid more attention. More targeted and effective 
strategies should be developed to reduce the burden of PC in China.

Copyright © 2022 Wang, Wang, Xia, Lin, Zhang, Yin and Yao.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2022.853623
PMCID: PMC9175004
PMID: 35692392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


649. Precis Clin Med. 2018 Dec;1(3):118-128. doi: 10.1093/pcmedi/pby017. Epub
2018  Dec 19.

Timing and mode of intervention for patients with left sided valvular heart 
disease: an individualized approach.

McConkey H(1), Zhao Z(2), Redwood S(1), Chen M(2), Prendergast BD(1).

Author information:
(1)King's College London British Heart Foundation Centre of Excellence, The 
Rayne Institute, St. Thomas' Hospital Campus, London, United Kingdom, and the 
Department of Cardiology, Guy's and St. Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, London, 
United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Cardiology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University.

Left sided valvular heart disease poses major impact on life and lifestyle. 
Medical therapy merely palliates chronic severe valve disease and once symptoms 
or haemodynamic sequelae appear, life expectancy is markedly truncated. In this 
article, we review the mechanisms of valve pathology, latest evidence in the 
quest for pharmacological options, means by which to predict deterioration, and 
standard and novel treatment options.

© The Author(s) 2018. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of West 
China School of Medicine & West China Hospital of Sichuan University.

DOI: 10.1093/pcmedi/pby017
PMCID: PMC8985789
PMID: 35692702


650. Front Psychiatry. 2022 May 26;13:858699. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2022.858699. 
eCollection 2022.

Palliative Psychiatry for Patients With Severe and Persistent Mental Illness: A 
Survey on the Attitudes of Psychiatrists in India Compared to Psychiatrists in 
Switzerland.

Stoll J(1), Mathew A(2), Venkateswaran C(3)(4), Prabhakaran A(2), Westermair 
AL(1)(5), Trachsel M(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical Ethics and History of Medicine, University of Zurich 
(UZH), Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, 
India.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Department of Palliative Medicine, Believers Church 
Medical College Hospital, Tiruvalla, India.
(4)Mehac Foundation, Kochi, India.
(5)Clinical Ethics Unit, University Hospital of Basel (USB) and University 
Psychiatric Clinics Basel (UPK), Basel, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: Palliative psychiatry is a new approach for the care of patients 
with severe and persistent mental illness (SPMI) which systematically considers 
biological, psychological, social, and existential factors of care. To assess 
the attitudes of psychiatrists in India toward palliative psychiatry for 
patients with SPMI and to compare these to the attitudes of psychiatrists in 
Switzerland.
METHODS: In an online survey, data from 206 psychiatrists in India were 
collected and compared with data from a previous survey among 457 psychiatrists 
in Switzerland.
RESULTS: Psychiatrists in India generally considered it very important to 
prevent suicide in SPMI patients (97.6%). At the same time, they considered it 
very important to reduce suffering (98.1%) and to ensure functionality in 
everyday life (95.6%). They agreed that palliative psychiatry is important for 
providing optimal care to SPMI patients without life-limiting illness (79.6%) 
and considered palliative psychiatry as indicated for patients with SPMI 
(78.2%). By contrast, curing the illness was considered very important by only 
39.8 % of respondents. Relative to psychiatrists in Switzerland, psychiatrists 
in India were significantly more concerned about preventing suicide and less 
willing to accept a reduction in life expectancy, even at the expense of quality 
of life in patients with severe and persistent schizophrenia and recurrent major 
depressive disorder. At the same time, they were significantly more likely to 
advocate palliative psychiatry.
CONCLUSION: Most of the participating psychiatrists in India agreed that 
palliative psychiatry can be indicated for patients with SPMI. The comparison 
with psychiatrists in Switzerland highlights the need to take account of 
cultural differences in future studies of this kind. In summary, this study 
shows the potential of palliative psychiatry as a genuine 
biopsychosocio-existential approach which systematically integrates biological, 
psychological, social, and existential factors of care.

Copyright © 2022 Stoll, Mathew, Venkateswaran, Prabhakaran, Westermair and 
Trachsel.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2022.858699
PMCID: PMC9178077
PMID: 35693967

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


651. PeerJ. 2022 Jun 7;10:e13490. doi: 10.7717/peerj.13490. eCollection 2022.

Explaining detection heterogeneity with finite mixture and non-Euclidean 
movement in spatially explicit capture-recapture models.

Marrotte RR(1), Howe EJ(1), Beauclerc KB(1), Potter D(1), Northrup JM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Wildlife Research & Monitoring Section, Ministry of Northern Development, 
Mines, Natural Resources and Forestry, Peterborough, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Environmental and Life Sciences Graduate Program, Trent University, 
Peterborough, Ontario, Canada.

Landscape structure affects animal movement. Differences between landscapes may 
induce heterogeneity in home range size and movement rates among individuals 
within a population. These types of heterogeneity can cause bias when estimating 
population size or density and are seldom considered during analyses. Individual 
heterogeneity, attributable to unknown or unobserved covariates, is often 
modelled using latent mixture distributions, but these are demanding of data, 
and abundance estimates are sensitive to the parameters of the mixture 
distribution. A recent extension of spatially explicit capture-recapture models 
allows landscape structure to be modelled explicitly by incorporating landscape 
connectivity using non-Euclidean least-cost paths, improving inference, 
especially in highly structured (riparian & mountainous) landscapes. Our 
objective was to investigate whether these novel models could improve inference 
about black bear (Ursus americanus) density. We fit spatially explicit 
capture-recapture models with standard and complex structures to black bear data 
from 51 separate study areas. We found that non-Euclidean models were supported 
in over half of our study areas. Associated density estimates were higher and 
less precise than those from simple models and only slightly more precise than 
those from finite mixture models. Estimates were sensitive to the scale (pixel 
resolution) at which least-cost paths were calculated, but there was no 
consistent pattern across covariates or resolutions. Our results indicate that 
negative bias associated with ignoring heterogeneity is potentially severe. 
However, the most popular method for dealing with this heterogeneity (finite 
mixtures) yielded potentially unreliable point estimates of abundance that may 
not be comparable across surveys, even in data sets with 136-350 total 
detections, 3-5 detections per individual, 97-283 recaptures, and 80-254 spatial 
recaptures. In these same study areas with high sample sizes, we expected that 
landscape features would not severely constrain animal movements and modelling 
non-Euclidian distance would not consistently improve inference. Our results 
suggest caution in applying non-Euclidean SCR models when there is no clear 
landscape covariate that is known to strongly influence the movement of the 
focal species, and in applying finite mixture models except when abundant data 
are available.

©2022 Marrotte et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.13490
PMCID: PMC9186326
PMID: 35694380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing 
interests.


652. Aging Ment Health. 2023 Jul-Aug;27(7):1256-1265. doi: 
10.1080/13607863.2022.2087212. Epub 2022 Jun 11.

Dyadic effects on depressive symptoms of spouse caregivers and their care 
recipients: evidence from China.

Liu J(1), Lou Y(1), Li LW(2), Xu H(3), Zhang Z(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(2)School of Social Work, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(3)Department of Sociology, Queens College - CUNY, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Sociology, Michigan State University, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The likelihood of providing care to a spouse in middle and older 
ages has increased as life expectancy increases, but knowledge about how the 
caregiver and care recipient influence each other's mental health is limited. 
This study examined whether a partner's physical, cognitive, and mental health 
in a spousal caregiving dyad are associated with the other partner's depressive 
symptoms in China and whether the dyadic effects vary by gender.
METHODS: This study used data from Wave 3 (2015) and Wave 4 (2018) follow-up 
surveys of the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study (CHARLS). The 
analytic sample featured 1,245 dyads of care recipients aged 45 or older and 
their spouse caregivers. The Actor-Partner Interdependence Model was used to 
test the dyadic effects among all couples in the analytic sample, couples with 
wife caregivers and couples with husband caregivers, respectively.
RESULTS: We found that caregiver's depressive symptoms at Wave 3 were 
significantly associated with care recipient's depressive symptoms at Wave 4 in 
the full sample. Regardless of caregiver or care recipient roles, wives' mental 
health was impacted by their husbands' depressive symptoms, but not vice versa. 
Wife recipient's cognitive impairment was associated with husband caregiver's 
lower depressive symptoms.
CONCLUSION: This study sheds light on the mental health of couples in the 
context of caregiving in China. The findings indicate that interventions to 
support couples in a caregiving dyad need to consider the influence they have on 
each other, and the gender and health conditions of each in the dyad.

DOI: 10.1080/13607863.2022.2087212
PMID: 35694965


653. Psychol Med. 2023 May;53(7):3000-3008. doi: 10.1017/S003329172100502X. Epub
2021  Dec 9.

Depressive symptoms and neuroticism-related traits are the main factors 
associated with wellbeing independent of the history of lifetime depression in 
the UK Biobank.

Fabbri C(1)(2), Mutz J(2), Lewis CM(2), Serretti A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.
(2)Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, 
Psychology & Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Wellbeing has a fundamental role in determining life expectancy and 
major depressive disorder (MDD) is one of the main modulating factors of 
wellbeing. This study evaluated the modulators of wellbeing in individuals with 
lifetime recurrent MDD (RMDD), single-episode MDD (SMDD) and no MDD in the UK 
Biobank.
METHODS: Scores of happiness, meaningful life and satisfaction about functioning 
were condensed in a functioning-wellbeing score (FWS). We evaluated depression 
and anxiety characteristics, neuroticism-related traits, physical diseases, 
lifestyle and polygenic risk scores (PRSs) of psychiatric disorders. Other than 
individual predictors, we estimated the cumulative contribution to FWS of each 
group of predictors. We tested the indirect role of neuroticism on FWS through 
the modulation of depression manifestations using a mediation analysis.
RESULTS: We identified 47 966, 21 117 and 207 423 individuals with lifetime 
RMDD, SMDD and no MDD, respectively. Depression symptoms and personality showed 
the largest impact on FWS (variance explained ~20%), particularly self-harm, 
worthlessness feelings during the worst depression, chronic depression, 
loneliness and neuroticism. Personality played a stronger role in SMDD. Anxiety 
characteristics showed a higher effect in SMDD and no MDD groups. Neuroticism 
played indirect effects through specific depressive symptoms that modulated FWS. 
Physical diseases and lifestyle explained only 4-5% of FWS variance. The PRS of 
MDD showed the largest effect on FWS compared to other PRSs.
CONCLUSIONS: This was the first study to comprehensively evaluate the predictors 
of wellbeing in relation to the history of MDD. The identified variables are 
important to identify individuals at risk and promote wellbeing.

DOI: 10.1017/S003329172100502X
PMCID: PMC10235644
PMID: 35695039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CML is a member of the Scientific Advisory Board 
of Myriad Neurosciences. AS is or has been consultant/speaker for: Abbott, 
Abbvie, Angelini, Astra Zeneca, Clinical Data, Boheringer, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Innovapharma, Italfarmaco, Janssen, Lundbeck, 
Naurex, Pfizer, Polifarma, Sanofi, Servier. CF was a speaker for Janssen. JM 
declares no potential conflict of interest.


654. Chronic Illn. 2023 Mar;19(1):157-171. doi: 10.1177/17423953221108223. Epub
2022  Jun 12.

'The likes of me running and walking? No chance': Exploring the perceptions of 
adult patients with bronchiectasis towards exercise.

Royle H(1), Kelly C(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Care Professions, 8629University of Winchester, 
Winchester, UK.
(2)Respiratory Research Centre, Health Research Institute, 6249Edge Hill 
University, Ormskirk, UK.

Objective: To explore the views and experiences of adult patients with 
bronchiectasis towards exercise. Methods: Semi-structured interviews with ten 
patients with bronchiectasis were conducted to explore perceptions of exercise, 
potential barriers and facilitators of exercise. Inductive thematic analysis was 
used to identify key themes. Findings: Five main themes: 1. The language of 
exercise 2. Facilitators to exercise 3. Barriers to exercise 4. Exercise has a 
positive impact on health and life expectancy 5. Grief regarding loss of ability 
Discussion: Participants perceived exercise as positive, but there was variance 
regarding what this entailed. Findings suggest healthcare professionals should 
consider the language used when prescribing exercise and provide clarity for 
patients and reflect on their own role in advising on exercise. There were both 
common and differing barriers and facilitators to exercise between participants. 
Holistic needs and the identification of these potential barriers and 
facilitators to exercise could aid compliance. Further research is needed to 
explore generalisability and the effectiveness of behaviour change models to 
improve engagement with exercise.

DOI: 10.1177/17423953221108223
PMCID: PMC9843538
PMID: 35695195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


655. Postgrad Med. 2022 Aug;134(6):627-634. doi: 10.1080/00325481.2022.2088938.
Epub  2022 Jun 29.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion versus 
multiple daily insulin for treatment of children with type 1 diabetes.

Zhang L(1), Leng X(1), Tian F(1), Xiao D(2), Xuan J(3), Yang H(4), Liu J(1), 
Chen Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Endocrinology, Metabolism and Gastroenterology, the Affiliated 
Hospital of Qingdao University, Qingdao, Shandong, China.
(2)Shanghai Centennial Scientific Co., Ltd, Shanghai(Municipality), Shanghai, 
China.
(3)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, Hong 
Kong, China.
(4)Department of Pediatric Endocrinologic and Genetic and Metabolic Diseases, 
Qingdao Women and Children's Hospital, Qingdao, Shandong, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the health economics of using continuous subcutaneous 
insulin infusion (CSII) therapy versus multiple daily injections (MDI) therapy 
in children and adolescent patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) in Qingdao, 
China.
METHODS: A long-term cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted using the IQVIA 
Core Diabetes Model (CDM). The baseline characteristics of the simulated cohorts 
were obtained from 213 pediatric T1D patients who received care with CSII(104 
cases) or MDI(109 cases) in Qingdao from 1 January 2015 to 31 March 2019. In the 
essential case, the expenditure of the complications and treatment of the 
disease with both therapies were evaluated in Chinese currency from the 
perspective of healthcare system. In a secondary analysis, the model used a 
70-year time horizon, and a discount rate of 5% was applied to all future health 
outcomes and costs. A one-way sensitivity analysis was conducted on delta HbA1c, 
different prices of insulin pump, price of each upgrade cycle rates and 
different discount rates. Uncertainty was also evaluated by the probability 
sensitivity analysis and scenario analysis.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, the lifetime total costs were lower for CSII 
group at ¥630,871 per patient compared with ¥672,672 for MDI group. The 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained were 11.612 and 11.197 for patients 
treated with CSII group and MDI group, respectively. The CSII group was 
cost-saving compared to MDI group. The feasibility of CSII group being 
cost-effective was 100% under the threshold of 3 times per capita GDP of China 
in 2019 (¥212,676) which was indicated from the probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis. Regarding scenario analysis, the ICER of the CSII group compared to 
MDI was between -151,583 and 153,366 RMB/QALYs, which is cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: This economic evaluation compared CSII therapy versus MDI therapy 
for T1D children and adolescent patients in China and findings indicate that 
CSII should be considered a preferred treatment modality to MDI.

DOI: 10.1080/00325481.2022.2088938
PMID: 35695267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2022 Jun 22;14(24):27703-27719. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.2c06679. Epub 2022 Jun 13.

Titanium Nanosurface with a Biomimetic Physical Microenvironment to Induce 
Endogenous Regeneration of the Periodontium.

Yamada M(1), Kimura T(2), Nakamura N(3), Watanabe J(1), Kartikasari N(1), He 
X(1), Tiskratok W(1), Yoshioka H(4), Shinno H(4), Egusa H(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular and Regenerative Prosthodontics, Tohoku University 
Graduate School of Dentistry, Sendai, Miyagi 980-8575, Japan.
(2)Institute of Biomaterials and Bioengineering, Tokyo Medical and Dental 
University, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0062, Japan.
(3)Department of Bioscience and Engineering, College of Systems Engineering and 
Science, Shibaura Institute of Technology, Saitama, Saitama 337-8570, Japan.
(4)Laboratory for Future Interdisciplinary Research of Science and Technology, 
Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama, Kanagawa 152-8550, Japan.
(5)Center for Advanced Stem Cell and Regenerative Research, Tohoku University 
Graduate School of Dentistry, Sendai, Miyagi 980-8575, Japan.

The periodontium supports the teeth by dentoalveolar fibrous joints that serve 
unique oral functions. Endogenous regeneration of the periodontium around 
artificial teeth (dental implants) provides a cost-effective solution for the 
extension of healthy life expectancy but remains a challenge in regenerative 
medicine. Biomimetics can create smart biomaterials that tune endogenous cells 
at a tissue-material interface. Here, we created a smart titanium nanosurface 
mimicking the surface nanotopography and micromechanical properties of the tooth 
root cementum (TRC), which is essential for the induction of dentoalveolar 
fibrous joints to regenerate the periodontium. After transplantation into the 
rat renal capsule, only the titanium artificial tooth with the TRC-mimetic 
nanosurface formed a complex dentoalveolar fibrous joint structure, with bone 
tissue, periodontal ligament (PDL), and TRC, in the decellularized jawbone 
matrix. TRC-mimetic titanium implants induce the formation of functional 
periodontium, even in a jawbone implantation model, which generally causes 
osseointegration (ankyloses). In human PDL cells, TRC analogousness in the 
surface mechanical microenvironment regulates matrix mineralization through bone 
sialoprotein expression and phosphorus metabolism, which are critical for 
cementogenesis. Therefore, the titanium nanosurfaces with nanotopographical and 
mechanical microenvironments mimicking the TRC surface induce dentoalveolar 
fibrous joints for periodontal regeneration by interfacial tuning of endogenous 
cells.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.2c06679
PMCID: PMC9231364
PMID: 35695310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


657. Pharmacoeconomics. 2022 Aug;40(8):777-790. doi: 10.1007/s40273-022-01145-7.
Epub  2022 Jun 13.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Venetoclax in Combination with Azacitidine Versus 
Azacitidine Monotherapy in Patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia Who are 
Ineligible for Intensive Chemotherapy: From a US Third Party Payer Perspective.

Pratz KW(1), Chai X(2), Xie J(3), Yin L(3), Nie X(3), Montez M(4), Iantuono 
E(4), Downs L(4), Ma E(4).

Author information:
(1)Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 3400 Spruce St, Philadelphia, PA, 
19104, USA. Keith.Pratz@pennmedicine.upenn.edu.
(2)Analysis Group, Inc., Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Analysis Group, Inc., Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(4)Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, CA, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Using individual patient-level data from the phase 3 VIALE-A trial, 
this study assessed the cost-effectiveness of venetoclax in combination with 
azacitidine compared with azacitidine monotherapy for patients newly diagnosed 
with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who are ineligible for intensive chemotherapy, 
from a United States (US) third-party payer perspective.
METHODS: A partitioned survival model with a 28-day cycle and three health 
states (event-free survival (EFS), progressive/relapsed disease, and death) was 
developed to estimate costs and effectiveness of venetoclax + azacitidine versus 
azacitidine over a lifetime (25-year) horizon. Efficacy inputs (overall survival 
(OS), EFS, and complete remission (CR)/CR with incomplete marrow recovery (CRi) 
rate) were estimated using VIALE-A data. Best-fit parametric models per Akaike 
Information Criterion were used to extrapolate OS until reaching EFS and 
extrapolate EFS until Year 5. Within EFS, the time spent in CR/CRi was estimated 
by applying the CR/CRi rate to the EFS curve. Past Year 5, patients still in EFS 
were considered cured and to have the same mortality as the US general 
population. Mean time on treatment (ToT) for both regimens was based on the time 
observed in VIALE-A. Costs of drug acquisition, drug administration (initial and 
subsequent treatments), subsequent stem cell transplant procedures, adverse 
events (AEs), and healthcare resource utilization (HRU) associated with health 
states were obtained from the literature/public data and inflated to 2021 US 
dollars. Health state utilities were estimated using EuroQol-5 dimension-5 level 
data from VIALE-A; AE disutilities were obtained from the literature. 
Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) per life-year (LY) and 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained were estimated. Deterministic 
sensitivity analyses (DSA), scenario analyses, and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses (PSA) were also performed.
RESULTS: Over a lifetime horizon, venetoclax + azacitidine versus azacitidine 
led to gains of 1.89 LYs (2.99 vs. 1.10, respectively) and 1.45 QALYs (2.30 vs. 
0.84, respectively). Patients receiving venetoclax + azacitidine incurred higher 
total lifetime costs ($250,486 vs. $110,034 (azacitidine)). The ICERs for 
venetoclax + azacitidine versus azacitidine were estimated at $74,141 per LY and 
$96,579 per QALY gained. Results from the DSA and scenario analyses supported 
the base-case findings, with ICERs ranging from $60,718 to $138,554 per QALY 
gained. The results were most sensitive to varying the parameters for the 
venetoclax + azacitidine base-case EFS parametric function (Gompertz), followed 
by alternative approaches for ToT estimation, treatment costs of venetoclax + 
azacitidine, standard mortality rate value and ToT estimation, alternative 
sources to inform HRU, different cure modeling assumptions, and the parameters 
for the venetoclax + azacitidine base-case OS parametric function (log-normal). 
Results from the PSA showed that, compared with azacitidine, venetoclax + 
azacitidine was cost-effective in 99.9% of cases at a willingness-to-pay 
threshold of $150,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis suggests that venetoclax + azacitidine offers a 
cost-effective strategy in the treatment of patients with newly diagnosed AML 
who are ineligible for intensive chemotherapy from a US third-party payer 
perspective.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02993523. Date of registration: 15 
December 2016.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-022-01145-7
PMCID: PMC9300490
PMID: 35696071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Keith W. Pratz is an associate professor of 
medicine at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Keith W. Pratz has 
received honoraria or consultancy fees from AbbVie, Astellas, Boston BioMedical, 
Jazz Pharmaceuticals, STI Pharmaceuticals, and Celgene; and institutional 
research funding from AbbVie, Astellas, Agios, and Millennium. Xinglei Chai, 
Jipan Xie, Lei Yin, and Xiaoyu Nie are employees of Analysis Group, Inc., which 
has received consulting fees from Genentech, Inc. Melissa Montez, Erica 
Iantuono, Lisa Downs, and Esprit Ma are employees of Genentech, Inc. and hold 
stock/options.


658. Eur J Haematol. 2022 Oct;109(4):336-342. doi: 10.1111/ejh.13813. Epub 2022
Jun  24.

Survival and risk of vascular complications in myelofibrosis-A population-based 
study from the Swedish MPN group.

Lindgren M(1)(2), Andréasson B(3), Samuelsson J(4), Pettersson H(3), 
Enblom-Larsson A(5), Ravn-Landtblom A(6), Scheding S(7)(8), Bentham C(9), 
Ahlstrand E(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Kalmar County Hospital, Kalmar, Sweden.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, NU Hospital Group, Uddevalla, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Hematology, University Hospital Linköping, Linköping, Sweden.
(5)Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Luleå Research Unit, Umeå 
University, Umeå, Sweden.
(6)Department of Medicine, Karolinska Institute and Department of Medicine, 
Division of Hematology, Stockholm South Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Division of Molecular Hematology, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Lund 
Stem Cell Center, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(8)Department of Hematology, Skåne University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.
(9)Department of Medicine, Varberg Hospital, Varberg, Sweden.
(10)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health, Örebro University, 
Örebro, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To gain knowledge of underlying risk factors for vascular 
complications and their impact on life expectancy in myelofibrosis.
METHODS: From a cohort of 392 myelofibrosis patients registered in the Swedish 
MPN registry 58 patients with vascular complications during follow-up were 
identified. Patients with vascular complications were compared with both 1:1 
matched controls and the entire myelofibrosis cohort to explore potential risk 
factors for vascular complications and their impact on survival.
RESULTS: Incidence of vascular complications was 2.8 events per 100 
patient-years and the majority of complications were thrombotic. Patients with 
complications were significantly older and had lower hemoglobin when compared to 
the entire cohort. In the case-control analysis, no significant risk factor 
differences were observed. The major cause of death was vascular complications 
and median survival was significantly impaired in patients with vascular 
complications (48 months) compared to controls (92 months). Inferior survival in 
patients with vascular complications was found to be dependent on IPSS risk 
category in a Cox regression model.
CONCLUSION: Vascular complications have a considerable impact on survival in MF. 
At diagnosis, risk assessment by IPSS does not only predict survival but is also 
associated with the risk of vascular complications.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejh.13813
PMID: 35696444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. J Vasc Surg. 2022 Nov;76(5):1364-1373.e3. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2022.05.007.
Epub  2022 Jun 11.

Outcomes of patients with aortic vascular graft and endograft infections 
initially contra-indicated for complete graft explantation.

Caradu C(1), Puges M(2), Cazanave C(3), Martin G(4), Ducasse E(2), Bérard X(2), 
Bicknell C(4); Imperial Vascular Unit and the University Hospital of Bordeaux 
Vascular Unit.

Author information:
(1)Vascular and General Surgery Unit, Bordeaux University Hospital, Bordeaux, 
France. Electronic address: caroline.caradu@chu-bordeaux.fr.
(2)Vascular and General Surgery Unit, Bordeaux University Hospital, Bordeaux, 
France.
(3)Infectious Disease Unit, Bordeaux University Hospital, Bordeaux, France.
(4)Imperial Vascular Unit, Imperial College, London, United Kingdom and 
Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial College London, London, United 
Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: Complete excision in patients with aortic vascular graft and 
endograft infections (VGEIs) is a significant undertaking, and many patients 
never undergo definitive treatment. Knowing their fate is important to be able 
to assess the risks of graft excision vs alternative strategies. This study 
analyzed their life expectancy and sepsis-free survival.
METHODS: VGEIs were diagnosed according to the Aortic Graft Infection (MAGIC) 
criteria, and patients turned down for graft removal from November 2006 to 
December 2020 were included. Primary endpoints were aortic-related and 
sepsis-free survival estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. A Cox proportional 
hazards regression analysis was used to compute the hazard ratio (HR) and 95% 
confidence interval (CI) as estimates of survival without sepsis.
RESULTS: Seventy-four patients were included, with a median age of 71 years 
(range, 63-79 years). The index aortic repair was either open (n = 33; 44.6%), 
endovascular (n = 19; 25.7%), or hybrid (n = 22; 29.7%). Causative organisms 
were identified in 56 patients (75.7%). At presentation, 26 patients (35.1%) 
required salvage surgery, open (n = 22; 29.7%) or endovascular (n = 8; 10.8%), 
and 17 radiological drainage (23.0%). During follow-up, eight required drainage 
and 11 (14.9%) graft removal (five complete). Infectious complications included 
pseudoaneurysms (n = 14; 18.9%), rupture (n = 9; 12.2%), gastro-intestinal 
bleeding (n = 13; 17.6%), septic embolisms (n = 4; 5.4%), and thrombosis (n = 
12; 16.2%). In-hospital mortality was 20.3% (n = 15), freedom from 
aortic-related death and overall survival was 77.1% (95% CI, 65.2%-85.3%) and 
70.4% (95% CI, 58.3%-79.7%) at 1 year, and 61.7% (95% CI, 46.1%-74.0%) and 43.1% 
(95% CI, 29.2%-56.3%) at 5 years. Sepsis recurrence occurred in 37 patients 
(50.0%). Seven (16.3%) developed acquired antimicrobial resistance. Malnutrition 
(HR, 3.3; 95% CI, 1.4-7.6; P = .005), hemorrhagic shock at presentation (HR, 
2.9; 95% CI, 1.0-8.2; P = .048), aorto-enteric fistulae (HR, 3.3; 95% CI, 
1.3-8.4; P = .011), fungal coinfection (HR, 3.5; 95% CI, 1.2-11.5; P = .030), 
and infection with resistant micro-organisms (HR, 3.1; 95% CI, 1.1-8.3; P = 
.023) were significantly associated with worse survival without sepsis.
CONCLUSIONS: In-hospital and aortic-related mortality were significant, but with 
salvage surgery and antibiotic therapy, the median survival was 3 years. Sepsis 
recurrence remained frequent, and further procedures were needed. These outcomes 
should be considered when graft excision is proposed. Known predictors of 
adverse outcomes should become important points for discussion in 
multidisciplinary team meetings.

Copyright © 2022 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2022.05.007
PMID: 35697306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. J Prosthet Dent. 2022 Jun 10:S0022-3913(21)00407-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.prosdent.2021.07.014. Online ahead of print.

Oral health-related quality of life of conventional removable partial dentures, 
unilateral nonmetal clasp dentures, and shortened dental arch with 2- or 3-tooth 
unilateral distal extension tooth loss in the mandible: A randomized, crossover, 
clinical trial.

Nakai N(1), Kurogi T(2), Murata H(3).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Professor, Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, Graduate School of 
Biomedical Sciences, Nagasaki University, Nagasaki, Japan; Private practice, 
Kyoto, Japan. Electronic address: nakai@ndo-kyoto.jp.
(2)Assistant Professor, Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, Graduate School of 
Biomedical Sciences, Nagasaki University, Nagasaki, Japan.
(3)Professor, Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, Graduate School of Biomedical 
Sciences, Nagasaki University, Nagasaki, Japan.

STATEMENT OF PROBLEM: Conventional removable partial dentures with metal clasps 
are still a common option for patients with distal-extension tooth loss. 
However, unilateral nonmetal clasp dentures fabricated by using a thermoplastic 
denture base resin are increasingly being used. Furthermore, the shortened 
dental arch concept remains controversial, in spite of being advocated for many 
years. Nevertheless, these treatment options remain controversial, particularly 
in patients with the loss of a few distal teeth unilaterally.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this randomized, crossover, clinical trial was to 
investigate the oral health-related quality of life of participants who 
requested a new dental prosthesis (unilateral nonmetal clasp dentures or 
conventional removable partial dentures) at a private practice.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A 3-period, randomized, crossover design was used in a 
within-subject, controlled, clinical trial. Twenty-four participants (mean age 
59.0 years [7 men: 62.6 {45-85} years; 17 women: 57.5 {24-75} years]) were 
enrolled. All experimental procedures were approved by the Ethics Committee of 
Nagasaki University Hospital (#15022313) and registered in the International 
Standard Randomized Controlled Trial Number registry (ISRCTN49105064). All 
participants were fully dentate in the maxilla and had unilateral 
distal-extension loss of 2 or 3 teeth in the mandible. Participants were 
allocated to 1 of 6 groups and treated with prescribed options in accordance 
with their allocated sequences and used a dental prosthesis or nothing for 
2-week periods. At the end of each intervention, the participants were asked to 
answer the Oral Health Impact Profile questionnaire. Differences in Oral Health 
Impact Profile scores among groups were estimated with a mixed-effects model 
(α=.05).
RESULTS: Total Oral Health Impact Profile scores were higher for unilateral 
nonmetal clasp dentures (P=.002) and shortened dental arch (P=.049) than for 
conventional removable partial dentures, with medium and small effects. The 
unilateral nonmetal clasp dentures had a similar effect compared with shortened 
dental arch (P>.05). unilateral nonmetal clasp dentures (P=.011) and shortened 
dental arch (P=.005) demonstrated medium effects in the oral function dimension 
compared with conventional removable partial dentures. Unilateral nonmetal clasp 
dentures exhibited large and medium effects in the orofacial appearance 
dimension compared with conventional removable partial dentures (P=.001) and 
shortened dental arch (P=.006). In the orofacial pain dimension, shortened 
dental arch showed effects similar to those of conventional removable partial 
dentures and unilateral nonmetal clasp dentures (P>.05), and no significant 
differences were observed in the psychosocial impact dimension (P>.05), but the 
unilateral nonmetal clasp denture score was lower than the conventional 
removable partial denture score, with a small effect. Men had significantly 
lower total Oral Health Impact Profile scores for shortened dental arch than 
women (P=.033).
CONCLUSIONS: Unilateral nonmetal clasp dentures and shortened dental arch were 
better than conventional removable partial dentures for the oral health-related 
quality of life of individuals with unilateral distal-extension tooth loss in 
the mandible, and sex had a significant effect on removable prosthetic planning.

Copyright © 2021 Editorial Council for the Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prosdent.2021.07.014
PMID: 35697550661. Rev Endocr Metab Disord. 2022 Dec;23(6):1285-1304. doi: 
10.1007/s11154-022-09737-6. Epub 2022 Jun 14.

Mortality and morbidity in ageing men: Biology, Lifestyle and Environment.

Zhao E(1), Crimmins EM(2).

Author information:
(1)Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, 90089-0191, 
Los Angeles, CA, United States.
(2)Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, 90089-0191, 
Los Angeles, CA, United States. crimmin@usc.edu.

Males live shorter lives than women in all countries. The universality of 
shorter male life expectancy is a 21st Century phenomena. It occurs with the 
decline in infectious diseases and the rise in cardiovascular diseases 
accounting for mortality. Male/female differences in morbidity are not as 
succinctly characterized. Men have a higher prevalence of lethal diseases, which 
is linked to their lower life expectancy. Women have more non-lethal conditions 
such as depression and arthritis; which may also be linked in part to longer 
survival. Men have better physical functioning and less disability which is 
