Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None reported.


472. Telemed J E Health. 2023 Jan;29(1):23-37. doi: 10.1089/tmj.2022.0016. Epub
2022  May 30.

A Telehealth and Telepsychiatry Economic Cost Analysis Framework: Scoping 
Review.

Hilty DM(1)(2), Serhal E(3), Crawford A(3).

Author information:
(1)Northern California Veterans Administration Health Care System, Mather, 
California, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, UC Davis, Sacramento, 
California, USA.
(3)ECHO Ontario Mental Health and ECHO Ontario Centre for Addiction and Mental 
Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Introduction: Despite a good evidence base for telepsychiatry (TP), economic 
cost analyses are infrequent and vary in quality. Methods: A scoping review was 
conducted based on the research question, "From the perspective of an economic 
cost analysis for telehealth and telepsychiatry, what are the most meaningful 
ways to ensure a study/intervention improved clinical care, provided value to 
participants, had population level impact, and is sustainable?" The search in 
seven databases focused on keywords in four concept areas: (1) economic cost 
analysis, (2) evaluation, (3) telehealth and telepsychiatry, and (4) 
quantifiable health status outcomes. The authors reviewed the full-text articles 
based on the inclusion (Medical Subject Headings [MeSH] of the keywords) and 
exclusion criteria. Results: Of a total of 2,585 potential references, a total 
of 99 articles met the inclusion criteria. The evaluation of telehealth and TP 
has focused on access, quality, patient outcomes, feasibility, effectiveness, 
outcomes, and cost. Cost-effectiveness, cost-benefit, and other analytic models 
are more common with telehealth than TP studies, and these studies show 
favorable clinical, quality of life, and economic impact. A standard framework 
for economic cost analysis should include: an economist for planning, 
implementation, and evaluation; a tool kit or guideline; comprehensive analysis 
(e.g., cost-effectiveness or cost-benefit) with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio; measures for health, quality of life, and utility 
outcomes for populations; methods to convert outcomes into economic benefits 
(e.g., monetary, quality of adjusted life year); broad perspective (e.g., 
societal perspective); sensitivity analysis for uncertainty in modeling; and 
adjustments for differential timing (e.g., discounting and future costs). 
Conclusions: Technology assessment and economic cost analysis-such as 
effectiveness and implementation science approaches-contribute to clinical, 
training, research, and other organizational missions. More research is needed 
with a framework that enables comparisons across studies and meta-analyses.

DOI: 10.1089/tmj.2022.0016
PMID: 35639444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. PLoS Med. 2022 May 31;19(5):e1003999. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1003999. 
eCollection 2022 May.

High-dose versus standard-dose vitamin D supplementation in older adults with 
COVID-19 (COVIT-TRIAL): A multicenter, open-label, randomized controlled 
superiority trial.

Annweiler C(1), Beaudenon M(1), Gautier J(1), Gonsard J(2), Boucher S(3), 
Chapelet G(4), Darsonval A(5), Fougère B(6), Guérin O(7), Houvet M(8), Ménager 
P(9), Roubaud-Baudron C(10), Tchalla A(11), Souberbielle JC(12), Riou J(2), 
Parot-Schinkel E(2), Célarier T(13); COVIT-TRIAL study group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine and Memory Clinic, Research Centre on 
Autonomy and Longevity, University Hospital, Angers, France; UNIV Angers, UPRES 
EA 4638, University of Angers, Angers, France.
(2)Delegation for Clinical Research and Innovation, Angers University Hospital, 
Angers, France.
(3)Department of ENT Head and Neck Surgery, University Hospital, Angers, France; 
MitoLab Team Mitochondrial Medecine Research Centre, MitoVasc Intitute, UNIV 
Angers, CNRS UMR6015, INSERM U1083, University of Angers, Angers, France.
(4)Department of Geriatric Medicine and Memory Clinic, Research Centre, 
University Hospital, Nantes, France; Inserm UMR1235, Nantes Université, Nantes, 
France.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, Angers University Hospital, Angers, France.
(6)Division of Geriatric Medicine, Tours University Hospital, Tours, France; 
Education, Ethics, Health (EA 7505), Tours University, Tours, France.
(7)Université Côte d'Azur, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Nice, Service de 
Médecine Gériatrique et Thérapeutique, Nice, France; Université Côte d'Azur, 
CNRS UMR 7284/INSERM U108, Institute for Research on Cancer and Aging Nice 
(IRCAN), Faculté de Médecine, Nice, France.
(8)Department of Geriatric Medicine, General Hospital, Saumur, France.
(9)Department of Geriatric Medicine, General Hospital, Le Mans, France.
(10)Pôle de Gérontologie Clinique, CHU Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; INSERM 1053, 
Univ. Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(11)Unité de Recherche Clinique et d'Innovation (URCI) de Gérontologie, Pôle HU 
Gérontologie Clinique, CHU de Limoges, France; Université de Limoges, IFR GEIST, 
Laboratoire UR Vie-Santé (Aging and Digital health Lab) Faculté de Medicine de 
Limoges, Limoges, France.
(12)Service des Explorations Fonctionnelles, Hôpital Necker-Enfants Malades, 
AP-HP, Paris, France.
(13)Department of Clinical Gerontology, University Hospital of Saint-Etienne, 
Saint-Etienne, France; Chaire Santé des Ainés, University of Jean Monnet, 
Saint-Etienne, France.

BACKGROUND: Vitamin D supplementation has been proposed as a treatment for 
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) based on experimental data and data from 
small and uncontrolled observational studies. The COvid19 and VITamin d TRIAL 
(COVIT-TRIAL) study was conducted to test whether a single oral high dose of 
cholecalciferol (vitamin D3) administered within 72 hours after the diagnosis of 
COVID-19 improves, compared to standard-dose cholecalciferol, the 14-day overall 
survival among at-risk older adults infected with Severe Acute Respiratory 
Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).
METHODS AND FINDINGS: This multicenter, randomized, controlled, open-label, 
superiority trial involved collaboration of 9 medical centers in France. 
Patients admitted to the hospital units or living in nursing homes adjacent to 
the investigator centers were eligible if they were ≥65 years, had SARS-CoV-2 
infection of less than 3 days, and at least 1 COVID-19 worsening risk factor 
(among age ≥75 years, SpO2 ≤94%, or PaO2/FiO2 ≤300 mm Hg). Main noninclusion 
criteria were organ failure requiring ICU, SpO2 ≤92% despite 5 L/min oxygen, 
life expectancy <3 months, vitamin D supplementation >800 IU/day during the 
preceding month, and contraindications to vitamin D supplements. Eligible and 
consenting patients were randomly allocated to either a single oral high-dose 
(400,000 IU) or standard-dose (50,000 IU) cholecalciferol administered under 
medical supervision within 72 hours after the diagnosis of COVID-19. 
Participants and local study staff were not masked to the allocated treatment, 
but the Steering Committee and the Data and Safety Monitoring Board were masked 
to the randomization group and outcome data during the trial. The primary 
outcome was 14-day overall mortality. Between April 15 and December 17, 2020, of 
1,207 patients who were assessed for eligibility in the COVIT-TRIAL study, 254 
met eligibility criteria and formed the intention-to-treat population. The 
median age was 88 (IQR, 82 to 92) years, and 148 patients (58%) were women. 
Overall, 8 (6%) of 127 patients allocated to high-dose cholecalciferol, and 14 
(11%) of 127 patients allocated to standard-dose cholecalciferol died within 14 
days (adjusted hazard ratio = 0.39 [95% confidence interval [CI], 0.16 to 0.99], 
P = 0.049, after controlling for randomization strata [i.e., age, oxygen 
requirement, hospitalization, use of antibiotics, anti-infective drugs, and/or 
corticosteroids] and baseline imbalances in important prognostic factors [i.e., 
sex, ongoing cancers, profuse diarrhea, and delirium at baseline]). The number 
needed to treat for one person to benefit (NNTB) was 21 [NNTB 9 to ∞ to number 
needed to treat for one person to harm (NNTH) 46]. Apparent benefits were also 
found on 14-day mortality due to COVID-19 (7 (6%) deaths in high-dose group and 
14 (11%) deaths in standard-dose group; adjusted hazard ratio = 0.33 [95% CI, 
0.12 to 0.86], P = 0.02). The protective effect of the single oral high-dose 
administration was not sustained at 28 days (19 (15%) deaths in high-dose group 
and 21 (17%) deaths in standard-dose group; adjusted hazard ratio = 0.70 [95% 
CI, 0.36 to 1.36], P = 0.29). High-dose cholecalciferol did not result in more 
frequent adverse effects compared to the standard dose. The open-label design 
and limited study power are the main limitations of the study.
CONCLUSIONS: In this randomized controlled trial (RCT), we observed that the 
early administration of high-dose versus standard-dose vitamin D3 to at-risk 
older patients with COVID-19 improved overall mortality at day 14. The effect 
was no longer observed after 28 days.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT04344041.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1003999
PMCID: PMC9154122
PMID: 35639792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal’s policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: CA occasionally 
serves as a consultant for Mylan company. The Mylan company supplied the vitamin 
D3 supplement used in the study. All other authors declare they do not have any 
financial and personal conflicts of interest with this manuscript (MB, JGa, JGo, 
SB, GC, AD, BF, OG, MH, PM, CRB, AT, JCS, JR, EPS, TC).


474. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2022 Oct 6;77(10):1931-1938. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glac119.

Functional Transcriptomic Analysis of Centenarians' Offspring Reveals a Specific 
Genetic Footprint That May Explain That They Are Less Frail Than Age-Matched 
Noncentenarians' Offspring.

Inglés M(1), Belenguer-Varea A(2)(3), Serna E(4), Mas-Bargues C(4), 
Tarazona-Santabalbina FJ(2)(3), Borrás C(4), Vina J(4).

Author information:
(1)Freshage Research Group, Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of 
Physiotherapy, University of Valencia, CIBERFES-ISCIII, INCLIVA , Valencia, 
Spain.
(2)Division of Geriatrics, Hospital Universitario de La Ribera, Alzira, 
Valencia, Spain.
(3)School of Doctorate, Universidad Católica de Valencia, San Vicente Martir, 
Valencia, Spain.
(4)Freshage Research Group, Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Valencia, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Fragilidad y 
Envejecimiento Saludable-Instituto de Salud Carlos III (CIBERFES-ISCIII), 
INCLIVA, Valencia, Spain.

Centenarians exhibit extreme longevity and compression of morbidity and display 
a unique genetic signature. Centenarians' offspring seem to inherit 
centenarians' compression of morbidity, as measured by lower rates of 
age-related pathologies. We aimed to ascertain whether centenarians' offspring 
are less frail and whether they are endowed with a "centenarian genetic 
footprint" in a case-control study, matched 1:1 for gender, age ±5 years, and 
place of birth and residence. Cases must have a living parent aged 97 years or 
older, aged 65-80 years, community dwelling, not suffering from a terminal 
illness, or less than 6 months of life expectancy. Controls had to meet the same 
criteria as cases except for the age of death of their parents (not older than 
89 years). Centenarians were individuals 97 years or older. Frailty phenotype 
was determined by Fried's criteria. We collected plasma and peripheral blood 
mononuclear cells from 63 centenarians, 88 centenarians' offspring, and 88 
noncentenarians' offspring. miRNA expression and mRNA profiles were performed by 
the GeneChip miRNA 4.0 Array and GeneChip Clariom S Human Array, respectively. 
We found a lower incidence of frailty among centenarians' offspring when 
compared with their contemporaries' noncentenarians' offspring (p < .01). Both 
miRNA and mRNA expression patterns in centenarians' offspring were more like 
those of centenarians than those of noncentenarians' offspring (p < .01). In 
conclusion, centenarians' offspring are less frail than age-matched 
noncentenarians' offspring, and this may be explained by their unique genetic 
endowment.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glac119
PMID: 35640160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Stomatologiia (Mosk). 2022;101(3):70-76. doi: 10.17116/stomat202210103170.

[Quantitative objective and subjective assessment of the quality of treatment of 
patients with distal occlusion].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Losev FF(1), Popova NV(1), Arsenina OI(1), Vagner VD(1), Gavrilova MV(1).

Author information:
(1)Central Research Institute of Dentistry and Maxillofacial Surgery, Moscow, 
Russia.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study is to evaluation of the quality of orthodontic 
treatment by comparing the severity of signs of distal occlusion before the 
start of orthodontic treatment and after its completion.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Quantitative assessment of the severity of distal 
occlusion in 83 patients aged 17 to 30 years before and after orthodontic 
treatment. Depending on the chosen treatment algorithms, the patients were 
divided into 3 groups. The first group - 34 people - treatment included the use 
of a functional non-removable orthodontic device (FNT). The second group - 21 
people - the treatment was accompanied by the removal of individual teeth of the 
upper jaw and the retraction of a group of front teeth of the upper jaw. 
Patients of the 3rd group - 28 people - underwent combined orthodonto-surgical 
treatment. The severity of distal occlusion was assessed using 3D cephalometric 
analysis data. To obtain a subjective assessment of the quality of orthodontic 
treatment, patients were asked to fill out questionnaires before and after 
orthodontic treatment.
RESULTS: The severity of distal occlusion decreased as much as possible as a 
result of treatment of the first group in 23.07% of patients and the third group 
(16.63%), which is interpreted by the formulation «significant improvement» of 
the dental anomaly. Patients of the first and third groups had a high degree of 
satisfaction with the result of treatment, according to the quantitative 
assessment of the questionnaire. The severity of distal occlusion in the second 
group was reduced to a lesser extent (55.5%), compared with the first and third 
groups, which is interpreted as «moderately improved». Patients noted an average 
degree of satisfaction with the result of treatment, as the implemented 
treatment plan did not meet their expectations in the aesthetic aspect.
CONCLUSION: The use of FNT for the extension and normalization of the position 
of the lower jaw is justified in the case of refusal of patients from combined 
orthodonto-surgical treatment, as it allows to fully solve the functional, 
aesthetic and psychological problems of patients, which contributes to improving 
their quality of life.

Publisher: ЦЕЛЬ ИССЛЕДОВАНИЯ: Оценка качества ортодонтического лечения путем 
сравнения степени выраженности признаков дистальной окклюзии до его начала и 
после завершения.
МАТЕРИАЛ И МЕТОДЫ: Количественная оценка степени выраженности дистальной 
окклюзии у 83 пациентов в возрасте от 17 до 30 лет до и после ортодонтического 
лечения. В зависимости от выбранных алгоритмов лечения пациенты были 
распределены на три группы: 1-я группа (n=34) — лечение включало использование 
функционального несъемного ортодонтического аппарата (ФНТА), 2-я группа (n=21) — 
лечение сопровождалось удалением отдельных зубов верхней челюсти и ретракцией 
группы передних зубов верхней челюсти, пациентам 3-й группы (n=28) проводили 
комбинированное ортодонто-хирургическое лечение. Оценку степени выраженности 
дистальной окклюзии осуществляли с использованием данных 3D-цефалометрического 
анализа. Для получения субъективной оценки качества ортодонтического лечения 
пациентам предлагалось заполнить анкеты до и после него.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: Степень выраженности показателей дистальной окклюзии максимально 
уменьшилась в результате лечения в 1-й группе у 23,07% пациентов и в 3-й группе 
у 16,63%, что интерпретируется формулировкой «существенное улучшение» 
зубочелюстной аномалии. У пациентов 1-й и 3-й групп отмечалась высокая степень 
удовлетворенности результатом лечения согласно количественной оценке 
анкетирования. Степень выраженности дистальной окклюзии у пациентов 2-й группы 
была снижена в меньшей степени (55,5%) по сравнению с 1-й и 3-й группами, что 
интерпретируется как «умеренно улучшено». Пациенты отмечали среднюю степень 
удовлетворения результатом лечения, так как реализованный план лечения не 
оправдал их ожиданий в эстетическом аспекте.
ЗАКЛЮЧЕНИЕ: Применение ФНТА для выдвижения и нормализации положения нижней 
челюсти оправдано в случае отказа пациентов от комбинированного 
ортодонто-хирургического лечения, так как позволяет в полной мере решить 
функциональные, эстетические и психологические проблемы пациентов, что 
способствует повышению качества их жизни.

DOI: 10.17116/stomat202210103170
PMID: 35640182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. J Public Health (Oxf). 2022 Aug 25;44(3):e353-e358. doi:
10.1093/pubmed/fdac057.

Years of life lost associated with COVID-19 deaths in the USA during the first 2 
years of the pandemic.

Quast T(1), Andel R(2)(3)(4), Gregory S(5), Storch EA(5).

Author information:
(1)University of South Florida, College of Public Health, Tampa, FL 33612, USA.
(2)University of South Florida, College of Behavioral and Community Sciences, 
School of Aging Studies, Tampa, FL 33620, USA.
(3)Charles University and Motol University Hospital, Department of Neurology, 
Prague, Czechia.
(4)International Clinical Research Center, St. Anne's University Hospital, Brno, 
Czechia.
(5)Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA.

BACKGROUND: Prior estimates of the years of life lost (YLLs) in the USA 
associated with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) were 1.2 million through 11 
July 2020 and 3.9 million through 31 January 2021 (which roughly coincides with 
the first full year of the pandemic). The aim of this study is to update YLL 
estimates through the first 2 years of the pandemic.
METHODS: We employed data regarding COVID-19 deaths through 5 February 2022 by 
jurisdiction, gender and age group. We used actuarial life expectancy tables by 
gender and age to estimate YLLs.
RESULTS: We estimated roughly 9.7 million YLLs due to COVID-19 deaths. The 
number of YLLs per 10 000 capita was 297.5, with the highest rate in Mississippi 
(482.7) and the lowest in Vermont (61.4). There was substantial interstate 
variation in the timing of YLLs and differences in YLLs by gender. YLLs per 
death increased from 9.2 in the first year of the pandemic to 10.8 through the 
first 2 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings improve our understanding of how the mortality effects 
of COVID-19 have evolved. This insight can be valuable to public health 
officials as the disease moves to an endemic phase.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Faculty 
of Public Health. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdac057
PMCID: PMC9213874
PMID: 35640260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Nucleic Acids Res. 2022 Jun 10;50(10):5672-5687. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkac447.

RNF4 controls the extent of replication fork reversal to preserve genome 
stability.

Ding L(1), Luo Y(1), Tian T(2), Chen X(1), Yang Y(1), Bu M(1), Han J(1), Yang 
B(1), Yan H(3), Liu T(4), Wu M(5), Zhang G(6), Xu Y(7), Zhu S(7), Huen MSY(8), 
Mao G(9), Huang J(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)The MOE Key Laboratory of Biosystems Homeostasis & Protection and Innovation 
Center for Cell Signaling Network, Life Sciences Institute, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, China.
(2)The Eighth Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-Sen University, Shenzhen 518033, 
Guangdong, China.
(3)School of Medicine, Zhejiang University City of College, Hangzhou 310015, 
Zhejiang, China.
(4)Department of Cell Biology, and Department of General Surgery of Sir Run Run 
Shaw Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310058, 
Zhejiang, China.
(5)The Affiliated Hospital of Stomatology, School of Stomatology, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine and Key laboratory of Oral Biomedical Research of 
Zhejiang Province, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, China.
(6)Department of Thoracic Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, China.
(7)Department of Urology, Cancer Hospital of the University of Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Zhejiang Cancer Hospital, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, China.
(8)Department of Anatomy, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(9)Zhejiang Provincial Key Lab of Geriatrics and Geriatrics Institute of 
Zhejiang Province, Department of Geriatrics, Zhejiang Hospital, Hangzhou 310030, 
Zhejiang, China.
(10)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Cancer Molecular Cell Biology, Life 
Sciences Institute, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, China.

Replication fork reversal occurs via a two-step process that entails reversal 
initiation and reversal extension. DNA topoisomerase IIalpha (TOP2A) facilitates 
extensive fork reversal, on one hand through resolving the topological stress 
generated by the initial reversal, on the other hand via its role in recruiting 
the SUMO-targeted DNA translocase PICH to stalled forks in a manner that is 
dependent on its SUMOylation by the SUMO E3 ligase ZATT. However, how TOP2A 
activities at stalled forks are precisely regulated remains poorly understood. 
Here we show that, upon replication stress, the SUMO-targeted ubiquitin E3 
ligase RNF4 accumulates at stalled forks and targets SUMOylated TOP2A for 
ubiquitination and degradation. Downregulation of RNF4 resulted in aberrant 
activation of the ZATT-TOP2A-PICH complex at stalled forks, which in turn led to 
excessive reversal and elevated frequencies of fork collapse. These results 
uncover a previously unidentified regulatory mechanism that regulates TOP2A 
activities at stalled forks and thus the extent of fork reversal.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic 
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkac447
PMCID: PMC9177969
PMID: 35640614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Eur J Med Genet. 2022 Jul;65(7):104533. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2022.104533.
Epub  2022 May 28.

Catch them if you are aware: PTEN postzygotic mosaicism in clinically suspicious 
patients with PTEN Hamartoma Tumour Syndrome and literature review.

Hendricks LAJ(1), Schuurs-Hoeijmakers J(2), Spier I(3), Haadsma ML(2), 
Eijkelenboom A(4), Cremer K(5), Mensenkamp AR(2), Aretz S(3), Vos JR(1), 
Hoogerbrugge N(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud university medical center, Nijmegen, 
the Netherlands; Radboud university medical center, Radboud Institute for Health 
Sciences, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud university medical center, Nijmegen, 
the Netherlands.
(3)Institute of Human Genetics, Medical Faculty, University of Bonn, Germany; 
Center for Hereditary Tumor Syndromes, University Hospital Bonn, Germany.
(4)Department of Pathology, Radboud university medical center, Nijmegen, the 
Netherlands.
(5)Institute of Human Genetics, Medical Faculty, University of Bonn, Germany.
(6)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud university medical center, Nijmegen, 
the Netherlands; Radboud university medical center, Radboud Institute for 
Molecular Life Sciences, Nijmegen, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
Nicoline.hoogerbrugge@radboudumc.nl.

PTEN germline variants cause PTEN Hamartoma Tumour Syndrome (PHTS). Of 
individuals fulfilling diagnostic criteria, 41-88% test negative for PTEN 
germline variants, while mosaicism could be an explanation. Here we describe two 
individuals with PTEN mosaicism. First, a 21-year-old female presented with 
macrocephaly and a venous malformation. Next generation sequencing analysis on 
her venous malformation identified the mosaic pathogenic PTEN variant c.493-2A>G 
(23%). This variant was initially missed in blood due to low frequency (<1%), 
but detected in buccal swab (21%). Second, a 13-year-old male presented with 
macrocephaly, language developmental delay, behavioral problems, and an acral 
hyperkeratotic papule. Targeted PTEN analysis identified the mosaic pathogenic 
variant c.284C>T (11%) in blood, which was confirmed via buccal swab. These two 
cases suggest that PTEN mosaicism might be more common than currently reported. 
PTEN mosaicism awareness is important to enable diagnosis, which facilitates 
timely inclusion in cancer surveillance programs improving prognosis and life 
expectancy.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2022.104533
PMID: 35640862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. BMJ. 2022 May 31;377:e068776. doi: 10.1136/bmj-2021-068776.

Extension of cervical screening intervals with primary human papillomavirus 
testing: observational study of English screening pilot data.

Rebolj M(1), Cuschieri K(2), Mathews CS(3), Pesola F(3), Denton K(4), Kitchener 
H(5); HPV pilot steering group.

Collaborators: Appleyard TL, Cruickshank M, Ellis K, Evans C, Frew V, Giles T, 
Gray A, Holbrook M, Hunt K, Levine T, McBride E, Mesher D, Palmer T, Parker J, 
Rimmer E, Pickard HR, Sargent A, Smith D, Smith J, Soldan K, Stubbs R, Tidy J, 
Tyler X, Waller J.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prevention Group, School of Cancer and Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College London, London, UK 
matejka.rebolj@kcl.ac.uk.
(2)Scottish HPV Reference Laboratory, Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, NHS Lothian 
Scotland, Edinburgh, UK.
(3)Cancer Prevention Group, School of Cancer and Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College London, London, UK.
(4)Severn Pathology, Southmead Hospital, North Bristol NHS Trust, Bristol, UK.
(5)Division of Cancer Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2022 May 31;377:o1303.

OBJECTIVES: To provide updated evidence about the risk of cervical 
intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 or higher (CIN3+) and cervical cancer after a 
negative human papillomavirus (HPV) test in primary cervical screening, by age 
group and test assay.
DESIGN: Observational study.
SETTING: Real world data from the English HPV screening pilot's first and second 
rounds (2013-16, follow-up to end of 2019).
PARTICIPANTS: 1 341 584 women.
INTERVENTIONS: Cervical screening with HPV testing or liquid based cytological 
testing (cytology or smear tests). Women screened with cytology were referred to 
colposcopy after high grade cytological abnormalities or after borderline or low 
grade abnormalities combined with a positive HPV triage test. Women screened 
with HPV testing who were positive were referred at baseline if their cytology 
triage test showed at least borderline abnormalities or after a retest (early 
recall) at 12 and 24 months if they had persistent abnormalities.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Detection of CIN3+ and cervical cancer after a negative 
HPV test.
RESULTS: For women younger than 50 years, second round detection of CIN3+ in 
this study was significantly lower after a negative HPV screen in the first 
round than after cytology testing (1.21/1000 v 4.52/1000 women screened, 
adjusted odds ratio 0.26, 95% confidence interval 0.23 to 0.30), as was the risk 
of interval cervical cancer (1.31/100 000 v 2.90/100 000 woman years, adjusted 
hazard ratio 0.44, 0.23 to 0.84). Risk of an incident CIN3+ detected at the 
second screening round in the pilot five years after a negative HPV test was 
even lower in women older than 50 years, than in three years in women younger 
than 50 years (0.57/1000 v 1.21/1000 women screened, adjusted odds ratio 0.46, 
0.27 to 0.79). Women with negative HPV tests at early recall after a positive 
HPV screening test without cytological abnormalities had a higher detection rate 
of CIN3+ at the second routine recall than women who initially tested HPV 
negative (5.39/1000 v 1.21/1000 women screened, adjusted odds ratio 3.27, 95% 
confidence interval 2.21 to 4.84). Detection after a negative result on a 
clinically validated APTIMA mRNA HPV test was similar to that after clinically 
validated cobas and RealTime DNA tests (for CIN3+ at the second round 1.32/1000 
v 1.14/1000 women screened, adjusted odds ratio 1.05, 0.73 to 1.50).
CONCLUSIONS: These data support an extension of the screening intervals, 
regardless of the test assay used: to five years after a negative HPV test in 
women aged 25-49 years, and even longer for women aged 50 years and older. The 
screening interval for HPV positive women who have negative HPV tests at early 
recall should be kept at three years.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2019. Re-use permitted under CC BY. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj-2021-068776
PMCID: PMC9153243
PMID: 35640960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at ww.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf and 
declare: MR was provided Public Health England funding for the epidemiological 
evaluation of the pilot, and an unrelated study; is a member of the Public 
Health England Laboratory Technology Group, HPV Development Group, and HPV 
Self-sampling Operational Steering Group and Project Board; attended meetings 
with various HPV assay manufacturers; declares fee for lecture from Hologic, 
paid to employer. KC declares research funding or consumables to support 
research from Cepheid, Euroimmun, GeneFirst, SelfScreen, Hiantis Seegene, Roche, 
Abbott, and Hologic, paid to employer; is a professional clinical advisor to 
Public Health England; is a member of Public Health England Laboratory 
Technology Group and HPV Self-sampling Operational Steering Group. CM held an 
honorary appointment at Public Health England to process the data for the pilot. 
FP declares no competing interests. KD is an adviser to Public Health England 
(this position is funded by Public Health England as a secondment from her main 
employment); chairs the Public Health England Laboratory Clinical Professional 
Group, the HPV Development Group, and several groups related to the evaluation 
of self-sampling; was a consultant to the Scally Review of cervical screening in 
Ireland and the RCOG review of cervical cancer audit in Ireland, both completed 
in 2019; has provided expert medicolegal reports prepared for claimants and 
defendants including in cases of cervical cancer; received support with travel 
expenses to attend an international meeting in May 2019 from Hologic, a company 
manufacturing equipment and consumables for cytology and HPV testing. HK is 
former chair of the Public Health England Advisory Committee for Cervical 
Screening. We report no other relationships or activities that could appear to 
have influenced the submitted work. The views expressed in this manuscript are 
those of the authors and do not represent the view of Public Health England. 
Patient consent: Women participating in the HPV primary screening pilot were 
invited to make an informed choice on participating in the cervical screening 
programme. A decision is made to accept or decline a screening test based on 
access to accurate and up-to-date information on the condition being screened 
for, the testing process and potential outcomes. Specific information was 
provided at the invitation stage allowing for personalised informed choice. 
Further opportunity was given to reflect on what the test and its results might 
mean when women attended for screening with the clinician taking the sample. 
Regulation 5, Health Service Regulations 2002, Confidentiality Advisory Group 
Reference 15/CAG/0207, was the legal basis to process the data.


480. Osteoporos Int. 2022 Sep;33(9):1909-1923. doi: 10.1007/s00198-022-06444-5.
Epub  2022 May 31.

Cost-effectiveness of Denosumab for the Treatment of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis 
in Malaysia.

Choo YW(1)(2), Mohd Tahir NA(3), Mohamed Said MS(4), Li SC(5), Makmor Bakry 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Jalan Raja Muda Abdul 
Aziz, 50300, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)Pharmacy Department, Kuala Lipis Hospital, Ministry of Health Malaysia, 
27200, Kuala Lipis , Pahang, Malaysia.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Jalan Raja Muda Abdul 
Aziz, 50300, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. nurulainmt@ukm.edu.my.
(4)Department of Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia Medical Centre, Jalan 
Yaacob Latif, Bandar Tun Razak, 56000, Kuala Lumpur, Cheras, Malaysia.
(5)School of Biomedical Sciences and Pharmacy, University of Newcastle, 
Callaghan, NSW, 2308, Australia.

From the perspective of Malaysian health care providers, denosumab was 
cost-effective in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis, with an optimal 
outcome starting at age 60 years. Our results provide important insights into 
the value for money of anti-osteoporotic agents that can serve as a reference 
for other countries with comparable epidemiological data.
INTRODUCTION: The study aimed to compare the cost-effectiveness of denosumab 
with alendronate and no treatment in the management of postmenopausal 
osteoporosis among the Malaysian population.
METHODS: A well-validated Markov model was used to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of denosumab in a hypothetical cohort of postmenopausal 
osteoporotic women between 50 and 80 years old who had no history of fractures. 
A 10-year time horizon from the perspective of Malaysian health care providers 
was used in this analysis. The model parameters, including transition 
probabilities and costs, were based on Malaysian sources. Treatment efficacy 
data were obtained from a network meta-analysis. The study outcomes were 
presented as incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed to ensure the robustness of the results. A 
cost-effectiveness threshold was set at MYR 21,438 (USD 5175) per QALY.
RESULTS: Denosumab was found to be a cost-effective option for postmenopausal 
osteoporotic women aged 60 and older. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) for denosumab versus alendronate ranged from MYR 16,955 (USD 4093) per 
QALY at age 60 to MYR 4380 (USD 1057) per QALY at age 80. The cost-effectiveness 
of denosumab improved monotonically with increasing age. Denosumab was 
72.8-92.7% likely to be cost-effective at the cost-effectiveness threshold. 
Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that the results were robust across all 
parameter variations, with the annual cost of denosumab being the most 
sensitive.
CONCLUSIONS: From the perspective of the Malaysian health care provider, 
denosumab appears to be a cost-effective treatment choice for postmenopausal 
osteoporotic women over 60 years of age.

© 2022. International Osteoporosis Foundation and National Osteoporosis 
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-022-06444-5
PMID: 35641572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Sci Rep. 2022 May 31;12(1):9094. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-12966-z.

The CeCORD-J study on collagenase injection versus aponeurectomy for Dupuytren's 
contracture compared by hand function and cost effectiveness.

Yamamoto M(1), Yasunaga H(2), Kakinoki R(3), Tsubokawa N(4), Morita A(5), Tanaka 
K(6), Sakai A(7), Kurahashi T(8), Hirata H(9); CeCORD J study Group.

Collaborators: Hirata H, Tatebe M, Yamamoto M, Onishi T, Iwatsuki K, Tokutake K, 
Yasunaga H, Kakinoki R, Otani K, Tsubokawa N, Morita A, Tanaka K, Sakai A, 
Menuki K, Yamanaka Y, Urata S, Oguchi T, Kurahashi T, Iwasaki N, Matsui Y, 
Ikegami H, Sakano H, Katsumura T, Nishiwaki M, Tanaka T, Hirase Y, Kanno Y, Kato 
H, Hayashi M, Omokawa S, Hasegawa H, Gotani H, Tanaka Y, Sunagawa T, Shinomiya 
R, Kajiwara R, Nakao E, Nishizuka T, Hattori Y, Shinohara T, Watanabe K, Okui N, 
Koshima H, Tajika T, Ohi H, Kaji Y, Nagayoshi E, Igarashi A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hand Surgery, Nagoya University, 65 Tsurumai-cho, Showa-ku, 
Nagoya, 466-8550, Japan. michi-ya@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Health Economics, Tokyo University, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Kindai University, Osaka Sayama, Japan.
(4)Department of Hand Surgery, Niigata Hand Surgery Foundation, Seiro, Japan.
(5)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Suzuka Kaisei Hospital, Suzuka, Japan.
(6)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Nagasaki University, 
Nagasaki, Japan.
(7)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, the University of Occupational and 
Environmental Health, Kitakyusyu, Japan.
(8)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Anjo Kosei Hospital, Anjo, Japan.
(9)Department of Hand Surgery, Nagoya University, 65 Tsurumai-cho, Showa-ku, 
Nagoya, 466-8550, Japan.

This study compared hand function and the cost-effectiveness of treatment 
between collagenase Clostridium histolyticum (CCH) injection and limited 
fasciectomy for patients with Dupuytren's contracture (DC). The CeCORD-J study 
is a prospective, multicenter, non-randomized controlled, observational study of 
two parallel groups. Participants were DC patients with multiple affected 
fingers, including flexion contracture of the proximal interphalangeal (PIP) 
joint. The primary outcome was the Hand10 score, as a patient-reported outcome 
measure (PROM). We set secondary outcomes of EQ-5D-5L (QOL) score, degree of 
extension deficit, and direct cost. Propensity score adjustment was used to 
balance differences in patient characteristics between groups. Participants 
comprised 52 patients in the Collagenase group and 26 patients in the Surgery 
group. There were no significant differences in the Hand10 and QOL scores 
between the two groups at 26 weeks. Mean direct cost was 248,000 yen higher in 
the Surgery group than in the Collagenase group. Extension deficit angle of the 
PIP joint was significantly larger in the Collagenase group at 26 weeks. 
Although the Collagenase group showed dominance in cost-effectiveness, there was 
no significant difference between the two groups in hand function at 26 weeks.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-022-12966-z
PMCID: PMC9156707
PMID: 35641603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors disclosed receipt of the following 
financial support for the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article. This study was supported by Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation. However, 
research planning, implementation, and analysis were carried out by multiple 
collaborators, and the research results were not manipulated so as to 
arbitrarily lead to favorable results for the company.


482. J Nucl Cardiol. 2023 Aug;30(4):1592-1601. doi: 10.1007/s12350-022-03005-5.
Epub  2022 May 31.

Cardiac amyloidosis in Latin America: Gaps and opportunities to increase 
awareness of the disease. Findings from the AMILO-LATAM research group.

Mut F(1), Carvajal I(2)(3), Camilletti J(4), Erriest J(4), Alexanderson 
E(2)(5)(6), Grossman GB(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Nuclear Medicine Service, Italian Hospital, Montevideo, Uruguay. 
mut.fer@gmail.com.
(2)National Institute of Cardiology "Ignacio Chavez", Juan Badiano 1, colonia 
Belisario Domínguez Secc 16, delegación Tlalpan, 14080, Mexico City, Mexico.
(3)Hospital de Cardiologia Centro Medico Nacional Siglo XXI, Mexico City, 
Mexico.
(4)Nuclear Medicine Service, Italian Hospital, La Plata, Argentina.
(5)PET/CT Unit, Faculty of Medicine, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, 
Mexico City, Mexico.
(6)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Universidad Nacional Autonoma 
de Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico.
(7)Nuclear Medicine Department, Moinhos de Vento Hospital, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(8)Cardionuclear Clinic, Porto Alegre, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Cardiac amyloidosis (CA) is an under-diagnosed disease presenting as 
a restrictive cardiomyopathy with high morbidity and mortality. Wild-type 
transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM) is mostly seen in elderly 
patients, with increasing prevalence as life expectancy is growing. New 
diagnostic imaging techniques and treatments allow for a better prognosis, but 
lack of clinical awareness delays timely diagnosis and appropriate management. 
Our purpose was to investigate the knowledge of clinicians regarding ATTR-CM and 
to assess the availability of imaging resources in the Latin-American region.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Two online surveys were distributed among clinicians and 
nuclear medicine professionals, respectively: one asking about awareness of CA 
in different clinical scenarios, and the other about the availability of 
diagnostic resources and studies performed. 406 responses were received for the 
first survey and 82 for the second, representing 17 and 14 countries, 
respectively. A significant lack of awareness was identified among clinicians, 
although appropriate diagnostic resources are generally available. Survey data 
showed that very few patients are evaluated for ATTR-CM in most Latin-American 
countries.
CONCLUSIONS: The surveys demonstrated the need for educational programs and 
other measures to increase clinical awareness and early detection of CA, so 
patients receive timely treatment and management of the disease.

© 2022. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to American Society of Nuclear 
Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1007/s12350-022-03005-5
PMCID: PMC9154028
PMID: 35641695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


483. Drugs Aging. 2022 Jun;39(6):441-452. doi: 10.1007/s40266-022-00943-0. Epub
2022  Jun 1.

Ulcerative Colitis in Adulthood and in Older Patients: Same Disease, Same 
Outcome, Same Risks?

Fries W(1), Demarzo MG(2)(3), Navarra G(4), Viola A(2).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology and Chronic Bowel Diseases, Department of Clinical and 
Experimental Medicine, University of Messina, Messina, Italy. fwalter@unime.it.
(2)Gastroenterology and Chronic Bowel Diseases, Department of Clinical and 
Experimental Medicine, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(3)Gastroenterology Unit, Department of Internal Medicine, IRCCS Ospedale 
Policlinico San Martino, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy.
(4)Oncologic Surgery, Department of Human Pathology of Adult and Evolutive Age, 
University of Messina, Messina, Italy.

The number of patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) approaching an 
older age, together with the number of over-60-year-old patients newly diagnosed 
with IBD, is steadily increasing, reaching 25% of all patients. The present 
review focuses on late-onset ulcerative colitis (UC) and its initial disease 
course in comparison with that observed in younger adults in terms of extension 
at onset and the risk of proximal disease progression, medical treatment, 
surgery and hospitalization in the first years after diagnosis. We summarize the 
clues pointing to a milder disease course in a population which frequently 
presents major frailty due to comorbidities. With increasing age and thus 
increasing comorbidities, medical and surgical therapies frequently represent a 
challenge for treating physicians. The response, persistence, and risks of 
adverse events of conventional therapies indicated for late onset/older UC 
patients are examined, emphasizing the risks in this particular population, who 
are still being treated with prolonged corticosteroid therapy. Finally, we 
concentrate on data on biotechnological agents for which older patients were 
mostly excluded from pivotal trials. Real-life data from newer agents such as 
vedolizumab and ustekinumab show encouraging efficacy and safety profiles in the 
population of older UC patients.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-022-00943-0
PMCID: PMC9155981
PMID: 35641753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: W.F., M.G.D, G.N., G. B., and A.V. have no 
conflict of interest to declare.


484. J Med Case Rep. 2022 May 31;16(1):230. doi: 10.1186/s13256-022-03399-3.

High-risk twin pregnancy: case report of an adolescent patient with cystic 
fibrosis and systemic lupus erythematosus.

Sanseverino PB(1), Hoffmann A(2), Machado S(3), Farias M(4), Michels MS(5), 
Sanseverino MTV(6), Marostica PJC(2).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul-PPG Saúde da Criança e do 
Adolescente, Ramiro Barcelos 2400 /sala 220, Atanásio Belmonte 515/502, Porto 
Alegre, RS, 90520550, Brazil. paula.sanseverino@gmail.com.
(2)Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Ramiro Barcelos 2350 /sala 1131, Porto 
Alegre, Brazil.
(3)Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Ramiro Barcelos 2350, Porto Alegre, 
Brazil.
(4)Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul-PPG Saúde da Criança e do 
Adolescente, Ramiro Barcelos 2400 /sala 220, Atanásio Belmonte 515/502, Porto 
Alegre, RS, 90520550, Brazil.
(5)Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul-Serviço de Genética HCPA, Ramiro 
Barcelos 2350, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(6)Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre-Serviço de Genetica, Ramiro Barcelos 
2350, Porto Alegre, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: We present the first case to our knowledge of a spontaneous twin 
pregnancy in a 16-year-old Caucasian patient with cystic fibrosis and systemic 
lupus erythematosus. Cystic fibrosis is one of the most common autosomal 
recessive genetic disorders and primarily affects the respiratory and digestive 
systems. Systemic lupus erythematosus is a chronic inflammatory disease of 
unknown cause that affects nearly every organ. Patients with cystic fibrosis or 
systemic lupus erythematosus are progressively having longer life expectancy and 
better quality of life, which has led a greater number of female patients 
reporting the desire to become mothers.
CASE PRESENTATION: We present a case of a Caucasian 16-year-old pregnant with 
twins being treated for both cystic fibrosis and systemic lupus erythematosus. 
She has two CFTR mutations: p.F508del and 1812_1G>A. In the second trimester, 
she was admitted for possible preterm labor, which was successfully stopped. The 
patient's nutritional status worsened, and she had a pulmonary exacerbation as 
well as a flare of systemic lupus erythematosus. At the 28th gestational week, 
she presented with a massive hemoptysis episode. The cesarean delivery had no 
complications, and there were no serious immediate postpartum complications.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: While adolescent pregnancies in and of themselves 
are considered high risk for both the young mothers and their children, they are 
further complicated when the mother has two chronic diseases and a twin 
pregnancy. We achieved positive results using a multidisciplinary approach; 
however, the risks involved were so high that major efforts are to be taken by 
our medical community to prevent unplanned pregnancies in all patients with 
cystic fibrosis, especially when a serious comorbidity like the one in this case 
is present.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13256-022-03399-3
PMCID: PMC9153143
PMID: 35641986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no competing interests.


485. Curr Cardiol Rev. 2023;19(3):e310522205428. doi: 
10.2174/1573403X18666220531094800.

Cardiotoxicity of Biological Therapies in Cancer Patients: An In-depth Review.

Madanat L(1), Gupta R(2), Weber P(3), Kumar N(4), Chandra R(1), Ahaneku H(2), 
Bansal Y(5), Anderson J(2), Bilolikar A(6), Jaiyesimi I(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, William Beaumont Hospital, Royal Oak, 
Michigan, USA.
(2)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, William Beaumont Hospital, 
Royal Oak, Michigan, USA.
(3)College of Osteopathic Medicine, Michigan State University, East Lansing, 
Michigan, USA.
(4)Department of Cardiovascular Disease, St. Joseph Mercy Oakland Hospital, 
Pontiac, Michigan, USA.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Detroit Mercy, Detroit, 
Michigan, USA.
(6)Department of Cardiovascular Disease, William Beaumont Hospital, Royal Oak, 
Michigan, USA.

Cardiotoxicity from chemotherapy regimens has been long reported. However, the 
understanding of cardiac side effects of biological therapies is rapidly 
evolving. With cancer patients achieving higher life expectancy due to the use 
of personalized medicine and novel targeted anticancer agents, the occurrence of 
cardiotoxicity is becoming more significant. Novel biological therapies include 
anti-HER2 antibodies, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, bruton kinase inhibitors, 
antivascular endothelial growth factors, proteasome inhibitors, immunomodulator 
drugs, and immune checkpoint inhibitors. Potential cardiovascular toxicities 
linked to these anticancer agents include hypertension, arrhythmias, QT 
prolongation, myocardial ischemia and infarction, left ventricular dysfunction, 
congestive heart failure, and thromboembolism. Cardiac biomarkers, 
electrocardiography, echocardiography and magnetic resonance imaging are common 
diagnostic modalities used for early detection of these complications and timely 
intervention. This review discusses the various types of cardiotoxicities caused 
by novel anticancer biologic agents, their molecular and pathophysiological 
mechanisms, risk factors, and diagnostic and management strategies that can be 
used to prevent, minimize, and treat them.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1573403X18666220531094800
PMCID: PMC10280990
PMID: 35642110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest, 
financial or otherwise.


486. Pak J Pharm Sci. 2022 Mar;35(2):441-445.

Effect of rock salt aerosol therapy on quality of life of patients with 
pneumoconiosis: A multicenter, randomized, double-blind clinical trial.

Chen C(1), Zhang Q(2), Luo W(1), Liu Z(1), Xu H(1), Wang Y(1), Chen G(3), Guo 
X(4), Ming Y(5), Zhang X(6), Li Y(7).

Author information:
(1)Coal Linyi Warm Spring Sanatorium of Shandong Province, Linyi, Shandong, 
China.
(2)Tai'an Central Hospital of Shandong Province, Tai'an, Shandong, China.
(3)Beidehe Institute of Occupational Disease Prevention and Control of the State 
Safety, Administration, Qinhuangdao, Heibei, China.
(4)Occupational Disease Prevention and Control Institute of China Pingmei Shenma 
Group, Dingdingshan, Henan, China.
(5)The General Hospital of Tongchuan Mining Bureau, Tongchuan, Shanxi, China.
(6)The General Hospital of Furong Company of Sichuan Coal Group, Yibing, 
Sichuan, China.
(7)Occupational Disease Prevention and Control Institute of Hunan Province, 
Changsha, Hunan, China.

This study aimed to explore the impact of rock salt aerosol therapy on the 
quality of life in pneumoconiosis patients. It may provide new treatment method 
for the comprehensive control of pneumoconiosis. A total of 452 subjects from 6 
hospitals were divided based on the multi-level hierarchical random design. The 
patients in the treatment group received conventional comprehensive treatment + 
rock salt aerosol therapy. The baseline data were collected, including gender, 
age, age of dust exposure, stage and COPD combination. Cough, expectoration and 
dyspnea levels were valuated. Both of the two methods exhibited good curative 
effect following time extension. Rock salt aerosol therapy showed more 
significant effect compared with routine method. The clinical symptom tends to 
be stable after two weeks treatment of rock salt aerosol therapy. The curative 
effect increases with the extension of treatment time. 2-4 weeks for one course 
of treatment can improve the curative effect. Rock salt aerosol therapy can 
effectively improve the quality of life of pneumoconiosis patients. It is a good 
treatment and rehabilitation method for the prevention and treatment of 
pneumoconiosis, thus is worthy of clinical application.

PMID: 35642398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. J Med Econ. 2022 Jan-Dec;25(1):808-816. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2022.2085444.

Assessment of face validity of a disease model of nonsense mutation Duchenne 
muscular dystrophy: a multi-national Delphi panel study.

Landfeldt E(1), Zhang R(2), Childs AM(3), Johannsen J(4), O'Rourke D(5), 
Sejersen T(6)(7), Strautmanis J(8), Schara-Schmidt U(9), Tulinius M(10), Walter 
MC(11), Willis T(12), Buesch K(13).

Author information:
(1)IQVIA, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)PTC Therapeutics Sweden AB, Askim, Sweden.
(3)Leeds Teaching Hospitals, Leeds, UK.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Neuropediatrics, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(5)Department of Neurology, Children's Health Ireland at Temple Street, Dublin, 
Ireland.
(6)Department of Women's and Children's Health, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Department of Neuropediatrics, Astrid Lindgren Children´s Hospital, 
Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(8)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Children's Clinical University 
Hospital, Riga, Latvia.
(9)Department of Neuropediatrics, Developmental Neurology and Social Pediatrics, 
Centre for Neuromuscular Disorders in Children and Adolescents, Children´s 
University Clinic Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(10)Department of Pediatrics, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(11)Friedrich-Baur-Institute, Department of Neurology, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(12)Robert Jones and Agnes Hunt Hospital, Oswestry, UK.
(13)PTC Therapeutics Switzerland, Zug, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to assess the face validity of a 
disease model evaluating the cost-effectiveness of ataluren for the treatment of 
nonsense mutation Duchenne muscular dystrophy (nmDMD).
METHODS: This was a Delphi panel study comprising of physicians with first-hand 
experience of ataluren for the treatment of nmDMD. Consensus was sought for 
previously unvalidated model data, including patient health status and quality 
of life measured using the Health Utility Index (HUI), mortality, informal 
caregiving, and the expected benefit of early ataluren treatment across four 
states: (1) ambulatory, (2) non-ambulatory, not yet requiring ventilation 
support, (3) non-ambulatory, night-time ventilation support, and (4) 
non-ambulatory, full-time ventilation support.
RESULTS: Nine experts from five countries participated in the Delphi panel. 
Consensus was obtained for all questions after three panel rounds (except for 
two HUI-questions concerning hand function [dexterity]). Consensus HUI-derived 
utilities for state (1) were 1.0000 for ataluren on top of best supportive care 
(BSC) and 0.7337 for BSC alone. Corresponding estimates for state (2) were 
0.3179 and 0.2672, for state (3) 0.1643 and 0.0913, and for state (4) -0.0732 
and -0.1163. Consensus mortality rates for states (1), (2), and (3) were 4%, 
13%, and 33%, and life expectancy in state (4) was agreed to be 3 years. 
Panelists further agreed that two informal caregivers typically provide 
day-to-day care/support to patients with nmDMD, and that starting treatment with 
ataluren at 2 versus 5 years of age would be expected to delay loss of 
ambulation by an additional 2 years, and initiation of night-time and full-time 
ventilation support by an additional 3 years, respectively.
LIMITATIONS: The main limitation concerns the size of the Delphi panel, govern 
primarily by the rarity of the disease.
CONCLUSION: This study confirms the face validity of key clinical parameters and 
assumptions underlying the ataluren cost-effectiveness model.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2022.2085444
PMID: 35642753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Transplantation. 2022 Aug 1;106(8):e358-e367. doi:
10.1097/TP.0000000000004185.  Epub 2022 May 30.

