больных ХОБЛ были значительно ниже. Вместе с тем, у больных 34–59 лет c ХОБЛ 
уровень нмДНК был снижен более чем в 5 раз по сравнению с величиной 
биохимического показателя у одновозрастных здоровых родственников, но к 60–80 
годам у больных значения биохимического параметра повышались и достоверно не 
различались в обследованных возрастных группах. Редукция нмДНК при ХОБЛ отражала 
сниженную системную апоптозную активность в организме больных. Значимые различия 
концентрации нмДНК у пациентов 34–59 лет с ХОБЛ и ХНБ в состоянии ремиссии могут 
быть использованы для дифференциальной диагностики развития этих патологических 
процессов. До 60–80 лет доживают больные ХОБЛ, у кого уровень нмДНК достигает 
такового у здоровых одновозрастных родственников, что может свидетельствовать об 
участии эпигенетических механизмов в процессе старения.

PMID: 35727935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Artif Life. 2022 Jun 28;28(2):205-223. doi: 10.1162/artl_a_00359.

Self-Replication in Neural Networks.

Gabor T(1), Illium S(2), Zorn M(2), Lenta C(2), Mattausch A(2), Belzner L(3), 
Linnhoff-Popien C(2).

Author information:
(1)LMU Munich. thomas.gabor@ifi.lmu.de.
(2)LMU Munich.
(3)Technische Hochschule Ingolstadt.

A key element of biological structures is self-replication. Neural networks are 
the prime structure used for the emergent construction of complex behavior in 
computers. We analyze how various network types lend themselves to 
self-replication. Backpropagation turns out to be the natural way to navigate 
the space of network weights and allows non-trivial self-replicators to arise 
naturally. We perform an in-depth analysis to show the self-replicators' 
robustness to noise. We then introduce artificial chemistry environments 
consisting of several neural networks and examine their emergent behavior. In 
extension to this work's previous version (Gabor et al., 2019), we provide an 
extensive analysis of the occurrence of fixpoint weight configurations within 
the weight space and an approximation of their respective attractor basins.

© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

DOI: 10.1162/artl_a_00359
PMID: 35727999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Oral Oncol. 2022 Aug;131:105951. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2022.105951.
Epub  2022 Jun 18.

Preoperative prediction model to evaluate salvage surgery in patients with 
recurrent or second primary oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma.

Lu HJ(1), Peng CY(2), Tseng HC(3), Hsin CH(4), Chuang CY(4), Chen CC(5), Huang 
WS(1), Chiu YW(6), Yang SF(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Chung 
Shan Medical University Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan; School of Medicine, Chung 
Shan Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Stomatology, Chung Shan Medical University Hospital, Taichung, 
Taiwan; College of Oral Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung, 
Taiwan.
(3)School of Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan; 
Department of Radiation Oncology, Chung Shan Medical University Hospital, 
Taichung, Taiwan.
(4)School of Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan; 
Department of Otolaryngology, Chung Shan Medical University Hospital, Taichung, 
Taiwan.
(5)School of Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan; Division 
of Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Chung Shan Medical University 
Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Stomatology, Chung Shan Medical University Hospital, Taichung, 
Taiwan; College of Oral Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung, 
Taiwan. Electronic address: dental99@csmu.edu.tw.
(7)Institute of Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan; 
Department of Medical Research, Chung Shan Medical University Hospital, 
Taichung, Taiwan. Electronic address: ysf@csmu.edu.tw.

Comment in
    Oral Oncol. 2023 May;140:106390.

OBJECTIVE: In approximately 50% of patients with oral cavity squamous cell 
carcinoma (OCSCC), the disease progresses after curative surgery. However, the 
role of salvage surgery (SS) is controversial, and life expectancy after SS is 
unknown.
METHODS: In this study, 262 patients with OCSCC with locoregional recurrence and 
second primary OCSCC were retrospectively enrolled and divided into a resectable 
(55.0%, 144/262) and unresectable (45.0%, 118/262) groups. After excluding neck 
recurrence only, SS had been performed 195 times in the resectable group. The 
corresponding preoperative clinicopathologic factors and postsurgery survival 
(PSS) of each SS were pooled for analysis.
RESULTS: Median survival after disease progression was 64.2 and 10.4 months for 
the resectable and unresectable groups, respectively. In the resectable group, 
one-fifth (19.5%, 37/190) of the patients died within 1 year of SS 
(PSS < 1 year), and one-third (32.8%, 64/195) of the patients had undergone SS 
two or more times. The interval from the last surgery ≤ 12 months, depth of 
invasion of the last surgery > 1 cm, and clinical evidence of nodal disease at 
the preoperative evaluation were independent predictors of poor PSS. A scoring 
prediction model was established with 1 point for each factor. The results 
revealed 1-year postsurgery death rates of 10.3% in the low-risk group (score: 
0-1) and 48.6% in the high-risk group (score: 2 or 3) (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, an effective scoring model predicting life 
expectancy after SS for patients with OCSCC was established.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2022.105951
PMID: 35728414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Public Health. 2022 Jul;208:89-97. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2022.04.015. Epub
2022  Jun 18.

Global disease burden of COPD from 1990 to 2019 and prediction of future disease 
burden trend in China.

Hu W(1), Fang L(1), Zhang H(1), Ni R(1), Pan G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Anhui 
Medical University, 81 Meishan Road, Hefei, Anhui, 230032, China.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Anhui 
Medical University, 81 Meishan Road, Hefei, Anhui, 230032, China. Electronic 
address: pgxkd@163.com.

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to assess and predict the disease burden 
attributable to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in a timely, 
comprehensive, and reliable manner, thereby mitigating the health hazards of 
COPD.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Data on the disease burden owing to COPD from 1990 to 
2019 were extracted from the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) Study 2019. Linear 
regression analysis was used to calculate the estimated annual percentage change 
(EAPC) in the age-standardized rates. Non-parametric tests were used for 
subgroup analysis. The Bayesian age-period-cohot (BAPC) model integrated nested 
Laplace approximations to predict the disease burden over the next 25 years. 
Sensitivity analysis was performed using the Norpred APC model.
RESULTS: Globally, the COPD-related age-standardized incidence rate decreased 
from 216.48/100,000 in 1990 to 200.49/100,000 in 2019, with an EAPC of -0.33. 
But the number of new cases increased from 8,722,966 in 1990 to 16, 214, 828 in 
2019. Trends in prevalence, deaths, and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) 
were the same as incidence. There were significant differences in disease burden 
between the genders and all age groups (P < 0.05) in China. The projections 
suggested that the COPD-related number of new cases and deaths in China would 
increase by approximately 1.5 times over the next 25 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The number of incidence, prevalence, deaths, and DALYs had all 
increased in China in the past and would continue to grow over the next 25 
years. Therefore, measures should be taken to target risk factors and high-risk 
groups.

Copyright © 2022 The Royal Society for Public Health. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2022.04.015
PMID: 35728417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Clinics (Sao Paulo). 2022 Jun 18;77:100063. doi:
10.1016/j.clinsp.2022.100063.  eCollection 2022.

Quality of life in patients with malignant pleural effusion treated with an 
indwelling pleural catheter in an emerging country.

Lauricella LL(1), D'Ambrosio PD(2), Costa PBD(3), Augusto MC(3), Pêgo-Fernandes 
PM(3), Terra RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto do Câncer do Estado de São Paulo (ICESP), Hospital das Clínicas, 
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo (HCFMUSP), São Paulo, SP, 
Brazil.
(2)Instituto do Câncer do Estado de São Paulo (ICESP), Hospital das Clínicas, 
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo (HCFMUSP), São Paulo, SP, 
Brazil. Electronic address: paula.dambrosio@hc.fm.usp.br.
(3)Instituto do Coração, Hospital das Clínicas, Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade de São Paulo (HCFMUSP), São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: The use of Indwelling Pleural Catheter (IPC) in the care of patients 
with Malignant Pleural Effusion (MPE) is well established, however studies 
involving public health systems of low and middle-income countries are still 
lacking. This study aimed to determine the effect of IPC on the respiratory 
symptoms and Quality of Life (QoL) of patients with MPE in the setting of a 
Brazilian public health system.
METHODS: From August 2015 to November 2019, patients with MPE underwent IPC 
placement and were prospectively followed. QoL and respiratory symptoms were 
assessed by the EORTC questionnaires (QLQ-30; LC13) and Visual Analogue Scale 
(VAS), respectively, at pre-treatment, 30 , and 60 days after IPC placement.
RESULTS: 56 patients were enrolled with 57 catheters inserted. The mean age 
was 63 (23‒88) years, of which 17 (30%) were men and 39 (70%) were women. Breast 
24 (42%) and lung 21 (37%) were the main primary neoplasms. Cellulitis was the 
most common complication and all patients recovered with appropriate 
antimicrobial therapy. QoL did not change significantly over time, however, the 
VAS showed a significant improvement in dyspnea (+1.2: -0.5; p = 0.001).
CONCLUSION: IPC relieves respiratory symptoms without compromising the QoL, with 
a low complication rate. It represents a suitable option for patients with MPE 
and short LE in an emerging country.

Copyright © 2022 HCFMUSP. Published by Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinsp.2022.100063
PMCID: PMC9214818
PMID: 35728443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


778. Mol Cell. 2022 Aug 18;82(16):3015-3029.e6. doi:
10.1016/j.molcel.2022.05.026.  Epub 2022 Jun 20.

Integration of light and temperature sensing by liquid-liquid phase separation 
of phytochrome B.

Chen D(1), Lyu M(1), Kou X(1), Li J(1), Yang Z(1), Gao L(2), Li Y(1), Fan LM(1), 
Shi H(2), Zhong S(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Protein and Plant Gene Research, School of Life 
Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Capital Normal University, Beijing 100048, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Protein and Plant Gene Research, School of Life 
Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China; Peking University Institute 
of Advanced Agricultural Sciences, Weifang 261325, China. Electronic address: 
shangwei.zhong@pku.edu.cn.

Comment in
    Mol Cell. 2022 Aug 18;82(16):2916-2918.

Light and temperature in plants are perceived by a common receptor, phytochrome 
B (phyB). How phyB distinguishes these signals remains elusive. Here, we report 
that phyB spontaneously undergoes phase separation to assemble liquid-like 
droplets. This capacity is driven by its C terminus through self-association, 
whereas the intrinsically disordered N-terminal extension (NTE) functions as a 
biophysical modulator of phase separation. Light exposure triggers a 
conformational change to subsequently alter phyB condensate assembly, while 
temperature sensation is directly mediated by the NTE to modulate the phase 
behavior of phyB droplets. Multiple signaling components are selectively 
incorporated into phyB droplets to form concentrated microreactors, allowing 
switch-like control of phyB signaling activity through phase transitions. 
Therefore, light and temperature cues are separately read out by phyB via 
allosteric changes and spontaneous phase separation, respectively. We provide a 
conceptual framework showing how the distinct but highly correlated physical 
signals are interpreted and sorted by one receptor.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2022.05.026
PMID: 35728588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


779. J Immunother Cancer. 2022 Jun;10(6):e004336. doi: 10.1136/jitc-2021-004336.

Regression of EGFR positive established solid tumors in mice with the 
conditionally active T cell engager TAK-186.

Dettling DE(1), Kwok E(2), Quach L(2), Datt A(2), Degenhardt JD(2), Panchal 
A(2), Seto P(2), Krakow JL(2), Wall R(2), Hillier BJ(2), Zhu Y(2), Vinogradova 
M(2), DuBridge RB(2), May C(2).

Author information:
(1)Oncology Drug Development Unit, Takeda Development Centers America, Inc 
(TDCA), Lexington, Massachusetts, USA danielle.dettling@alaunusbio.com.
(2)Oncology Drug Development Unit, Takeda Development Centers America, Inc 
(TDCA), Lexington, Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: Despite clinical success with T cell engagers (TCEs) targeting 
hematological malignancies, achieving a safe and efficacious dose in patients 
with solid tumors remains challenging. Due to potency, low levels of target 
antigen expression on normal tissues may not be tolerated. To overcome this, we 
engineered a novel conditionally active TCE design called COBRA (Conditional 
Bispecific Redirected Activation). Administered as prodrugs, COBRAs bind to cell 
surface antigens on both normal and tumor tissues but are preferentially 
activated within the tumor microenvironment.
METHODS: A COBRA was engineered to target EGFR, TAK-186. The potency of 
precleaved TAK-186 relative to a non-cleavable control was assessed in vitro. 
Mice bearing established solid tumors expressing a range of EGFR levels were 
administered a single bolus of human T cells, and concurrently treated with 
TAK-186 and associated controls intravenously. We assessed the plasma and tumor 
exposure of intact and cleaved TAK-186.
RESULTS: TAK-186 shows potent redirected T cell killing of antigen expressing 
tumor cells. In vivo efficacy studies demonstrate regressions of established 
solid tumors, dependent on intratumoral COBRA cleavage. Pharmacokinetic studies 
reveal TAK-186 is stable in circulation, but once activated is rapidly cleared 
due to loss of its albumin-binding half-life extension domain.
CONCLUSIONS: The studies shown support the advancement of TAK-186, and the 
pursuit of additional COBRA TCEs for the treatment of solid tumors.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jitc-2021-004336
PMCID: PMC9214390
PMID: 35728872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors are employees 
of Takeda Pharmaceuticals.


780. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2022 Jun;33(6):1652-1660. doi: 
10.13287/j.1001-9332.202206.016.

[Effects of temperature on growth, survival, and reproduction of Conogethes 
punctiferalis feeding on corn kernels].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Pang YS(1), Li SH(1), Wang RC(1)(2), Chi H(1)(3), Liu XY(1), Wang HY(1), Li 
XD(1), Zheng FQ(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Plant Protection, Shandong Agricultural University, Tai'an 271018, 
Shandong, China.
(2)Agricultural and Rural Bureau of Pingdu, Pingdu 266700, Shandong, China.
(3)Laboratory of Theoretical Ecology, Department of Entomology, National Chung 
Hsing University, Taichung 402, Taiwan, China.

In order to examine the effects of temperature on the growth, survival, and 
reproduction of Conogethes punctiferalis (Lepidoptera: Crambidae) feeding on 
corn kernels, the life table parameters of C. punctiferalis at 21, 24, 27, 30 ℃ 
were calculated based on the age-stage two-sex life table theory, and then 
population dynamics of C. punctiferalis was projected based on these parameters. 
The results showed that the life cycles of the pest could be finished at all the 
four temperature treatments. The developmental duration of each stage shortened 
with increasing temperature, and there were significant differences among 
treatments. The highest fecundity (116.7 eggs per female), preadult survival 
rate (84.7%), and proportion of female (0.46) were observed at 24 ℃. The 
intrinsic rates of increase at 24, 27, 30 ℃ were 0.1059, 0.1101, and 0.1045 d-1, 
respectively. The finite rates of increase were 1.1117, 1.1164, and 1.1102 d-1, 
respectively. There was no significant difference among the three treatments, 
but the r and λ values were significantly higher than those at 21 ℃. The net 
reproductive rates (R0) at 21, 24, 27, 30 ℃ were 17.3, 53.7, 36.9, and 19.8, 
respectively. R0 at 24 ℃ was the highest. It suggested that survival rates, 
fecundities and female proportions of C. punctiferalis population were high at 
24-27 ℃, which was the suitable temperature range for its growth, survival, and 
reproduction.

Publisher: 为了明确不同温度对取食玉米籽粒桃蛀螟生长发育、存活和生殖的影响,本研究依据年龄-龄期两性生命表理论计算了在21、24、27和30 
℃下取食玉米籽粒的桃蛀螟种群的生命表参数,并基于这些参数预测了未来80 d的种群动态。结果表明: 在21、24、27和30 
℃下桃蛀螟均能完成1个世代,随着温度升高,各阶段的发育历期缩短,且温度间差异显著。24 
℃下的平均单雌产卵量最高(116.7粒),成虫前期存活率最高(84.7%),雌虫占比最高(0.46),均显著高于其他温度。24、27、30 
℃下种群的内禀增长率分别为0.1059、0.1101、0.1045 d-1,周限增长率分别为1.1117、1.1164、1.1102 
d-1,处理间差异不显著,但均显著高于21 ℃处理。21、24、27和30 
℃下的净增殖率(R0)分别为17.3、53.7、36.9、19.8个后代个体,其中24 ℃时的R0最高且显著高于其他温度处理。表明桃蛀螟种群在24～27 
℃下的存活率高、繁殖力大、雌性占比较高,是其生长发育、生存和繁殖的适合温度。.

DOI: 10.13287/j.1001-9332.202206.016
PMID: 35729144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Sci Rep. 2022 Jun 21;12(1):10487. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-13951-2.

Multi-task learning to leverage partially annotated data for PPI interface 
prediction.

Capel H(1), Feenstra KA(1), Abeln S(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Bioinformatics Section VU, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 1081HV, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(2)Bioinformatics Section VU, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 1081HV, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands. s.abeln@vu.nl.
(3)Life Science and Health, CWI, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. s.abeln@vu.nl.

Protein protein interactions (PPI) are crucial for protein functioning, 
nevertheless predicting residues in PPI interfaces from the protein sequence 
remains a challenging problem. In addition, structure-based functional 
annotations, such as the PPI interface annotations, are scarce: only for about 
one-third of all protein structures residue-based PPI interface annotations are 
available. If we want to use a deep learning strategy, we have to overcome the 
problem of limited data availability. Here we use a multi-task learning strategy 
that can handle missing data. We start with the multi-task model architecture, 
and adapted it to carefully handle missing data in the cost function. As related 
learning tasks we include prediction of secondary structure, solvent 
accessibility, and buried residue. Our results show that the multi-task learning 
strategy significantly outperforms single task approaches. Moreover, only the 
multi-task strategy is able to effectively learn over a dataset extended with 
structural feature data, without additional PPI annotations. The multi-task 
setup becomes even more important, if the fraction of PPI annotations becomes 
very small: the multi-task learner trained on only one-eighth of the PPI 
annotations-with data extension-reaches the same performances as the single-task 
learner on all PPI annotations. Thus, we show that the multi-task learning 
strategy can be beneficial for a small training dataset where the protein's 
functional properties of interest are only partially annotated.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-022-13951-2
PMCID: PMC9213449
PMID: 35729253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


782. BMC Pulm Med. 2022 Jun 21;22(1):240. doi: 10.1186/s12890-022-02040-9.

Global and national burden and trends of mortality and disability-adjusted life 
years for silicosis, from 1990 to 2019: results from the Global Burden of 
Disease study 2019.

Chen S(1), Liu M(2), Xie F(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Geriatrics, Second Medical Center, Beijing Key Laboratory of 
Aging and Geriatrics, National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Disease, 
Chinese PLA General Hospital, Chinese PLA Medical School, Beijing, China.
(2)Graduate School, Chinese PLA General Hospital, Chinese PLA Medical School, 
Beijing, China. liumiaolmbxb@163.com.
(3)College of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Chinese PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing, China. xiefei301huxi@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Silicosis, as an important type of pneumoconiosis, leads to 
progressive and irreversible conditions from the beginning of inflammation and 
fibrosis. However, the data on the global burden of silicosis and long-term 
trends were limited.
METHODS: Derived from the Global Burden of Disease study 2019 (online publicly 
available: Global Health Data Exchange), data on both crude and age-standardized 
rates (ASR) per 100,00 people of mortality and disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) due to silicosis was collected and analyzed. The burden and trends of 
mortality and DALYs due to silicosis was assessed by 204 countries and 
territories, by 5-year interval of age group and by sex from 1990 to 2019. And 
all the regions were divided into 5 categories according to Sociodemographic 
Index (SDI). Temporal trends in mortality and DALY were evaluated only to ASR by 
the Joinpoint regression model.
RESULTS: More than 12.9 thousand [95% Uncertainty Intervals (UI): 10.9, 16.2] 
death cases occurred due to silicosis worldwide, and 655.7 thousand (95% UI: 
519.3, 828.0) DALYs were attributed to silicosis in 2019. From 1990 to 2019, 
global number of mortality and DALYs in countries with high SDI quintile 
decreased by 0.35% (95% UI: - 0.45, - 0.17) and 0.32% (95% UI: - 0.45, - 0.01), 
respectively. There was a greater burden in low- and middle-income countries 
were estimated in 2019 according to ASRs. The global number of mortality and 
DALYs among males accounted for over 95% of all in 2019. Both age-sex-specific 
mortality and DALY rate were increasing with aging and reached their peak at 
85-89 age group. During the past 30 years, ASR of mortality and DALYs showed a 
decreasing trend with average annual percentage change at -3.0% [95% Confidence 
Intervals (CI): - 3.2, - 2.9] and - 2.0 (95% CI: - 1.7, - 2.2), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Silicosis remains an important health issue and causes a 
potentially serious burden worldwide. Attention should be paid to making 
preventable, affordable and effective measures in lower SDI regions.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12890-022-02040-9
PMCID: PMC9210623
PMID: 35729551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


783. BMC Nurs. 2022 Jun 21;21(1):160. doi: 10.1186/s12912-022-00936-9.

"We are never taught anything about the elderly." Establishing the gap in 
elderly health care competencies in nursing education in Uganda.

Nawagi F(1), Mukisa J(2), Najjuma JN(3), Nabirye RC(4).

Author information:
(1)Makerere University College of Health Sciences (MaKCHS), School of Medicine, 
Kampala, Uganda. fnawagi@gmail.com.
(2)Makerere University College of Health Sciences (MaKCHS), School of Biomedical 
Sciences, Kampala, Uganda.
(3)Mbarara University of Science and Technology (MUST), Faculty of Medicine, 
Kampala, Uganda.
(4)Busitema University, Faculty of Health Sciences, Kampala, Uganda.

BACKGROUND: Nurses contribute the largest portion of Uganda's health workforce 
providing care to individuals of all ages and communities. However, despite the 
growing number of the elderly population in Uganda with improved life 
expectancy, there is hardly any study that has looked at the elderly health care 
competencies in the nursing training programs at various levels. This paper 
provides an overview of the gaps in elderly health care competencies in nursing 
education in Uganda.
METHODS: We conducted a descriptive qualitative cross-sectional study that 
involved document review, Key Informant Interviews (KIIs) with nursing leaders, 
and Focus Group Discussions ( FGDs) with faculty at all levels of nursing 
training and nurses in practice. Data was analyzed using latent and manifest 
content analysis with Open Code software 4.03. Common categories were identified 
and incorporated into a matrix to create themes.
RESULTS: Almost all the curricula and minimum standards for training nurses at 
certificate, diploma, and degree levels lack a module and nursing competencies 
on elderly nursing care. This is aggravated by a lack of faculty trained in 
elderly health care skills, and a lack of specialized wards for nursing elderly 
care clinical training among others.
CONCLUSIONS: There is hardly any elderly health care training module and elderly 
nursing competencies at all levels of nursing training in Uganda.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12912-022-00936-9
PMCID: PMC9210050
PMID: 35729575

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest. The 
authors alone are responsible for the content and writing of the article.


784. Turk Psikiyatri Derg. 2022 Summer;33(2):143-145. doi: 10.5080/u25957.

Letter to the Editor: Depression As The First Symptom Of Frontal Lobe Grade 2 
Malignant Glioma.

[Article in English, Turkish]

Nazlı ŞB, Sevindik M.

Dear Editor, Next to focal neurological symptoms, epileptic seizures and head 
aches, brain tumors can less frequently bring about cognitive changes, slowed 
speech, difficulty sustaining mental functioning and psychiatric symptoms of 
personality changes and. loss of interest in daily activities, these symptoms 
may be evaluated as anxiety or depression. Depression is known to be a 
complication of brain tumours and may sometimes be seen after the presentation 
of neurological symptoms linked to brain tumours, and sometimes after tumor 
treatment (Oğuz et al. 2005, Litofsky et al. 2004, Moise and Madhusoodanan 2006, 
Oreskovic M et al. 2007, Rooney A et al. 2010). The dorsolateral prefrontal, 
orbitofrontal and medial frontal circuits constitute the three subcortical 
neuronal circuits in the frontal cortex. The dorsolateral prefrontal circuit is 
associated with planning and operational functions and lesions on it may give 
rise to apathy, abulia, perseveration, personality changes and planning 
disorder. Lesions involving the orbitofrontal circuit, which is associated with 
response suppression and disinhibition, may involve emotional lability and 
memory problems. Whereas lesions affecting the right orbitofrontal circuit give 
rise to elevated mood, lesions on the left orbitofrontal circuit lead to 
depressed mood. In cases with medial frontal circuit involvement, akinetic 
mutism may result from lesions in the superior medial region and 
anteroretrograde amnesia and confabulation are observed with lesions in the 
inferior medial region (Tosun et al. 2016, Chirchiglia 2018). A diagnosis of 
psychiatric disorder may be given during the first examination of patieants with 
primary brain tumours, especially if localized in the frontal lobe. Thorough 
history taking and physical examination are necessary for early diagnosis. The 
case reported here concerns a 29-year-old university graduate female patient, 
living with her partner and children, who consulted the clinic with complaints 
of tendency to frequent crying, anhedonia, having difficulty with speech 
fluency, forgetfulness and distractedness that had presented suddenly, 2 months 
previously, without any causative stressor. In her mental status examination, 
she appeared having normal self-care with appearance at her actual age. She was 
fully conscious and oriented, not willing to cooperate with the interview, had 
distinct difficulty in maintaining attention and with fluency of speech. Her 
mood was depressive. She described loss of appetite, fatigue and energy loss. 
Her difficulty in paying attention was pronounced. She did not have a history of 
psychotropic medication use or family history of psychiatric disease. She did 
not smoke or use alcohol or substance. After evaluating the clinical interview, 
a preliminary diagnosis of major depressive disorder was considered on the basis 
of the DSM-5 criteria. Routine blood tests were requested. Given the 
continuation of her complaints, the difficulty with fluent speech and the 
increase in tendency to sleep at the first week follow up, cranial MRI was 
planned. The MRI results showed on the right, in the frontal lobe a multilocular 
mass with precallosal extension, undiscernable margins with the right lateral 
aspect of the corpus callosum genu and dispersed cystic-necrotic areas with T2 
signal series. The dimensions of the mass were nearly 5 x 3 cm causing a 1-cm 
right-to-left shift of the midline (Figure 1) DEPRESSION AS THE FIRST SYMPTOM OF 
FRONTAL LOBE GRADE 2 MALIGNANT GLIOMA 2 Türk Psikiyatri Dergisi 2 Turkish 
Journal of Psychiatry Letter to the Editor 143 144 The patient was referred for 
surgery with the preliminary diagnosis of high-grade glial tumour. Pathology 
results identified a grade 2 glioma. It was learned that radiotherapy sessions 
were begun after surgery. The patient did not have any symptoms of 
psychopathology during the 2 monthly psychiatric interviews made after surgery. 
Brain tumours generally indicate their presence with headache, seizures and 
other neurological symptoms and very rarely with depression as seen in the case 
of our patient. It should be kept in mind that atypical psychiatric symptoms may 
have an underlying organic lesion and subtle neurological symptoms should be 
investigated in detail. A recent meta-analysis on 37 observational studies 
determined a 21.7% prevalence of depression in a total of 4518 patients with 
intracranial tumours. Comorbidity of depression with brain tumor was 
demonstrated to worsen the quality of life, increase suicidal risk and lower the 
chance of survival (Huang et al. 2017). The possibility of psychiatric symptoms 
being the clinical clues for brain cancer was noted and the necessity of 
neuroimaging tests in cases of recent-onset psychosis or mood disorder symptoms, 
atypical personality changes and anorexia without body dysmorphic disorder was 
emphasized (Madhusoodanan et al. 2015). Loss of interest, tendency to frequent 
weeping, introversion and anhedonia were the sole complaints in the case 
discussed here. The increase in psychomotor retardation and slowing down of 
movements at the very first weekly control follow up necessitated neuroimaging. 
Despite the reports in the literature on the frequent association of 
unpreventable excessive behavior, disinhibition and irritability with right 
frontal injury and lesions (Okumuş and Hocaoğlu 2018), depression was the 
dominant symptom in the case presented here. There are differences between 
primary major depression and depression presenting with underlying somatic 
diseases which is known to occur at later ages (Rouchell et al. 2002). However, 
our patient was aged 29 years. Also, cases of depression due to somatic disease 
are less associated with family history of depression and suicidal ideation and 
attempts, while cognitive symptoms come to the foreground during mental status 
examination. (Sertöz and Mete 2004, Rouchell et al. 2002). Our patient did not 
have suicidal ideation or attempts, or a family history of depression. In 
apathy, which may be explained as emotional blunting, indifference or detachment 
from the external world, targeted behavior is also reduced next to the lack of 
emotional expression. The individual discussed here was learned not to sit at 
the table or change the television channel unless reminded to do so. When the 
reason was asked, she could not think of one. The reduction in emotional 
expression accompanies reduced insight, abulia and lack of empathy (Sözeri Varma 
et al. 2019). In depression, apathy is defined as 'sorrowless depression'. Our 
patient cried but had very blunted mimics and gestures. She explained that she 
could not help weeping even at times when she did not feel internally 
distressed. The seriousness of apathy, as a symptom difficult to differentiate 
from depression, is still not understood. Neuroimaging Figure 1- Cranial MRI of 
the patient 145 Received: 16.08.2020, Accepted: 04.12.2020, Available Online 
Date: 05.10.2021 1MD., Antalya Kepez State Hospital, Department of Psychiatry, 
Antalya, 2MD., Ordu University Training and Research Hospital, Department of 
Psychiatry, Ordu, Turkey e-mail: bosbora@yahoo.com 
https://doi.org/10.5080/u25957 studies indicate apathy to be a reflect of 
impaired frontal-subcortical circuits and the functional disorder of the 
connections between the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and the basal ganglia 
(Chase 2011). Comparison of 45 individuals with depression due to aging and 43 
healthy individuals showed apathy to be associated with fronto-limbic gray and 
white matter abnormalities which continued after antidepressant treatment. The 
structural anomalies of the posterior subgenual cingulate gyrus and the uncinate 
fasciculus were discussed (Yuen 2014). The case discussed here is presented to 
emphasize the importance of brain imaging methods and detailed investigation of 
atypical symptoms for diagnostic approaches to psychiatric disorders. 
Especially, complaints at young age of depression with psychomotor retardation, 
reduced fluency of speech and sudden onset withdrawal without stressors should 
be a warning of secondary depression. Yours sincerely... Şerif Bora Nazlı1 , 
Muhammet Sevindik2 REFERENCES Chase TN (2011) Apathy in Neuropsychiatric 
Disease: Diagnosis, Pathophysiology, and Treatment. Neurotox Res 19:266-78. 
Chirchiglia D (2018) Pseudodepression as an Anticipatory Symptom of Frontal Lobe 
Brain Tumors. Int J Depress Anxiety 1:007. Huang J, Zeng C, Xiao J et al (2017) 
Association between depression and brain tumor: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis. Oncotarget 8:94932-43. Litofsky NS, Farace E, Anderson F et al 
(2004) Depression in patients with high-grade glioma: Results of the glioma 
outcomes project. Neurosurgery 54:358-67. Madhusoodanan S, Ting MB, Farah T et 
al (2015) Pyschiatric aspects of brain tumors: A review. World J Psychiatry 
5:273-85. Moise D, Madhusoodanan S (2006) Psychiatric symptoms associated with 
brain tumors: a clinical enigma. CNS Spectr 2006;11:28-31. Oğuz N, Ilnem C, 
Yener F (2005) Psychiatric symptoms in brain tumors: Case reports. Bulletin of 
Clinical Psychopharmacology 15:18-21. Hocaoğlu Ç, Okumuş B (2018) Psychiatric 
manifestations and brain tumor: A case report and brief review. The Medical 
Journal of Mustafa Kemal University 9:42-9. Oreskovic NM, Strother CG, Zibners 
LM (2007) An unusual case of a central nervous system tumor presenting as a 
chief complaint of depression. Pediatric Emergency Care 23:486-8. Rooney A, 
Carson A, Grant R (2011) Depression in cerebral glioma patients: a systematic 
review of observational studies. J Natl Cancer Inst103:61-76. Rouchell AM, 
Pounds R, Tierney JG (2002) Depression Textbook of Consultation-Liaison 
Psychiatry, 2nd Edition, Volume 1. MG Wise, JR Rundell (Ed), Washington DC 
American Psychiatric Publishing, Inc, p.307-38. Özen SÖ, Hayriye ME (2004) 
Bedensel Hastalıklarda Depresyon. Klinik Psikiyatri Ek 2:63-9. Sözeri Varma G , 
Bingöl C , Topak O et al (2019) Relationship of apathy with depressive symptom 
severity and cognitive functions in geriatric depression. Arch Neuropsychiatry 
56:133-8. Yuen GS, Gunning FM, Woods E et al (2014) Neuroanatomical correlates 
of apathy in late-life depression and antidepressant treatment response. J 
Affect Disord 166:179-86.

DOI: 10.5080/u25957
PMID: 35730515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. J Am Heart Assoc. 2022 Jul 5;11(13):e025284. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.122.025284.
Epub  2022 Jun 22.

Rheumatic Heart Disease Is a Neglected Disease Relative to Its Burden Worldwide: 
Findings From Global Burden of Disease 2019.

Ghamari SH(1), Abbasi-Kangevari M(1), Saeedi Moghaddam S(1), Aminorroaya 
A(1)(2), Rezaei N(1)(3), Shobeiri P(1), Esfahani Z(1)(4), Malekpour MR(1), 
Rezaei N(1), Ghanbari A(1), Keykhaei M(5), Naderian M(1), Larijani B(3), Majnoon 
MT(6), Farzadfar F(1)(3), Mokdad AH(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Population Sciences Institute Tehran University of Medical Sciences Tehran Iran.
(2)Tehran Heart CenterTehran University of Medical Sciences Tehran Iran.
(3)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Clinical Sciences Institute Tehran University of Medical Sciences Tehran Iran.
(4)Department of Biostatistics University of Social Welfare and Rehabilitation 
Sciences Tehran Iran.
(5)Feinberg Cardiovascular and Renal Research Institute Northwestern University, 
School of Medicine Chicago IL.
(6)Pediatric Group Children Medical Center Faculty of Medicine Tehran University 
of Medical Sciences Tehran Iran.
(7)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation University of Washington Seattle 
WA.
(8)Department of Health Metrics Sciences University of Washington Seattle WA.

Background Rheumatic heart disease (RHD) takes a heavy toll in low- and 
middle-income countries. We aimed to present worldwide estimates for the burden 
of the RHD during 1990 to 2019 using the GBD (Global Burden of Disease) study. 
Methods and Results Sociodemographic index (SDI) and age-period-cohort analysis 
were used to assess inequity. The age-standardized death, disability-adjusted 
life years, incidence, and prevalence rates of RHD were 3.9 (95% uncertainty 
interval, 3.3-4.3), 132.9 (95% uncertainty interval, 115.0-150.3), 37.4 
(28.6-46.7), and 513.7 (405.0-636.3) per 100 000 in 2019, respectively. The 
age-standardized incidence and prevalence rates increased by 14.4% and 13.8%, 
respectively. However, disability-adjusted life years and death rates decreased 
by 53.1% and 56.9%, respectively. South Asia superregion had the highest 
age-standardized disability-adjusted life years and deaths. Sub-Saharan Africa 
had the highest age-standardized incidence and prevalence rates. There was a 
steep decline in RHD burden among higher-SDI countries. However, only 
age-standardized deaths and disability-adjusted life years rates decreased in 
lower-SDI countries. The age-standardized years of life lost and years lived 
with disability rates for RHD significantly declined as countries' SDI 
increased. The coefficients of birth cohort effect on the incidence of RHD 
showed an increasing trend from 1960 to 1964 to 2015 to 2019; however, the birth 
cohort effect on deaths attributable to RHD showed unfailingly decreasing trends 
from 1910 to 1914 to 2015 to 2019. Conclusions There was a divergence in the 
burden of RHD among countries based on SDI levels, which calls for including RHD 
in global assistance and funding. Indeed, many countries are still dealing with 
an unfinished infectious disease agenda, and there is an urgency to act now to 
prevent an increase in future RHD burden.

DOI: 10.1161/JAHA.122.025284
PMCID: PMC9333364
PMID: 35730651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Cien Saude Colet. 2022 Jul;27(7):2843-2854. doi: 
10.1590/1413-81232022277.23252021. Epub 2022 Mar 16.

Years of Life Lost (YLLs) due to drug-related deaths in the Islamic Republic Of 
Iran (2014-2017): a temporal and geographic pattern.

Alipour A(1), Babakhanian M(2), Zarghami M(3), Khosravi A(4), Saberi M(5).

Author information:
(1)Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences. Mazandaran Province Iran.
(2)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Semnan University of Medical 
Sciences. University Education and Research Campus, 5 km of Damghan road, 
JF62+4W5. Semnan Iran. babakhanian.m@gmail.com.
(3)Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences Research Center, Addiction Institute, 
Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences. Mazandaran Province Iran.
(4)Vice Chancellery for Health, Iranian Ministry of Health and Medical 
Education. Tehran Iran.
(5)Legal Medicine Research Center, Legal Medicine Organization, Tehran Iran.

The present study aimed to measure the mortality burden caused by premature 
death due to substance abuse in different geographical regions of Iran from 
2014-17. In this serial cross-sectional study, the data related to individuals 
who had died of drug abuse were first collected from two sources (Iranian 
Ministry of Health and Medical Education and the Iranian Legal Medicine 
Organization). Then, using the capture-recapture method, the number of 
drug-related deaths was estimated. The years of life lost (YLLs) for all 
provinces of Iran was calculated based on age, sex, and year. During these four 
years, the total number of deaths was 12029. The mean age of the individuals was 
37.3±14.1. The mean age of dead people was constant in women and men over this 
period; however, the mean age of dead women due to substance abuse was lower 
than that of men. The mean YLLs per dead person was 70131.3329 years for men and 
9321.1125 years for women. The potential years of life lost (YLLs) showed an 
upward trend, which was stronger in women than men. It is necessary to perform 
more regional overviews for finding differences in the number of YLLs due to 
substance abuse so that specific regional policies can be adopted.

DOI: 10.1590/1413-81232022277.23252021
PMID: 35730851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. JAMA Netw Open. 2022 Jun 1;5(6):e2218189. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2022.18189.

Cost-effectiveness of Pulmonary Rehabilitation Among US Adults With Chronic 
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease.

Mosher CL(1)(2), Nanna MG(2)(3), Jawitz OK(2)(4), Raman V(4), Farrow NE(4), 
Aleem S(2)(5), Casaburi R(6), MacIntyre NR(1), Palmer SM(1)(2), Myers ER(2)(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care Medicine, Duke University 
Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.
(2)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Durham, North Carolina.
(3)Section of Cardiovascular Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut.
(4)Department of Surgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North 
Carolina.
(6)Rehabilitation Clinical Trials Center, Lundquist Institute for Biomedical 
Innovation at Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, Torrance, California.
(7)Division of Women's Community and Population Health, Department of Obstetrics 
and Gynecology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.

Erratum in
    JAMA Netw Open. 2022 Jul 1;5(7):e2225391.

IMPORTANCE: Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) after exacerbation of chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is effective in reducing COPD 
hospitalizations and mortality while improving health-related quality of life, 
yet use of PR remains low. Estimates of the cost-effectiveness of PR in this 
setting could inform policies to improve uptake.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of participation in PR after 
hospitalization for COPD.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This economic evaluation estimated the 
cost-effectiveness of participation in PR compared with no PR after COPD 
hospitalization in the US using a societal perspective analysis. A Markov 
microsimulation model was developed to estimate the cost-effectiveness in the US 
health care system with a lifetime horizon, 1-year cycle length, and a 
discounted rate of 3% per year for both costs and outcomes. Data sources 
included published literature from October 1, 2001, to April 1, 2021, with the 
primary source being an analysis of Medicare beneficiaries living with COPD 
between January 1, 2014, and December 31, 2015. The analysis was designed and 
conducted from October 1, 2019, to December 15, 2021. A base case 
microsimulation, univariate analyses, and a probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
were performed.
INTERVENTIONS: Pulmonary rehabilitation compared with no PR after COPD 
hospitalization.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Net cost in US dollars, quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: Among the hypothetical cohort with a mean age of 76.9 (age range, 
60-92) years and 58.6% women, the base case microsimulation from a societal 
perspective demonstrated that PR resulted in net cost savings per patient of 
$5721 (95% prediction interval, $3307-$8388) and improved quality-adjusted life 
expectancy (QALE) (gain of 0.53 [95% prediction interval, 0.43-0.63] years). The 
findings of net cost savings and improved QALE with PR did not change in 
univariate analyses of patient age, the Global Initiative for Obstructive Lung 
Disease stage, or number of PR sessions. In a probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis, PR resulted in net cost savings and improved QALE in every one of 1000 
samples and was the dominant strategy in 100% of simulations at any 
willingness-to-pay threshold. In a 1-way sensitivity analysis of total cost, 
assuming completion of 36 sessions, a single PR session would remain cost saving 
to $171 per session and had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $884 per 
session for $50 000/QALY and $1597 per session for $100 000/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this economic evaluation, PR after COPD 
hospitalization appeared to result in net cost savings along with improvement in 
QALE. These findings suggest that stakeholders should identify policies to 
increase access and adherence to PR for patients with COPD.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2022.18189
PMCID: PMC9218844
PMID: 35731514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclaimer: The NIH was not involved in the 
research study or in the presentation of these findings.


788. JMIR Res Protoc. 2022 Jun 22;11(6):e36930. doi: 10.2196/36930.

Familiarity in Rural Life: Protocol for a Scoping Review and Concept Analysis.

Swan MA(#)(1), Gietzen LJ(#)(2), Hobbs BB(#)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, College of Allied Health & Nursing, Minnesota State 
University, Mankato, Mankato, MN, United States.
(2)College of Social & Behavioral Sciences, Minnesota State University, Mankato, 
Mankato, MN, United States.
(3)College of Nursing, South Dakota State University, Rapid City, SD, United 
States.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Familiarity is a concept often used in literature but is not well 
defined or understood. As a key concept in rural nursing theory, the conceptual 
understanding of familiarity is currently incomplete. The findings from this 
scoping review will inform a concept analysis using Walker and Avant's method 
and to identify and define the missing key components of familiarity.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this scoping review is to examine and analyze what 
is known in the existing literature about the concept of familiarity.
METHODS: The Joanna Briggs Institute scoping review framework guided the 
identification of literature published from 2016 to 2022 on familiarity. 
Following the PRISMA-ScR (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and 
Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews) reporting standard, the familiarity 
scoping review is registered on Open Science Framework (registration digital 
object identifier: 10.17605/OSF.IO/ZB8VF). A total of 8 databases, including 
PubMed, CINAHL (Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature) Plus 
with full text, APA PsychInfo, Communication Source, EBSCO MegaFILE, Medline, 
Nursing & Allied Health Database, and ScienceDirect, will be searched for 22 
search terms. Covidence software will be used to manage the scoping review with 
each citation independently reviewed by 2 research team members for eligibility. 
Eligibility will be determined using a 2-level process. Each title and abstract 
will be screened for eligibility; for citations deemed eligible, a full-text 
article review will be conducted. The scoping review is expected to locate a 
large body of literature, and eligibility criteria will be refined during the 
title and abstract screening process. In addition, reference list scanning will 
be performed to locate relevant literature.
RESULTS: Familiarity data will be collected beginning October 2021 with 
anticipated completion in March 2022. Dissemination of findings will occur 
through scholarly presentations and in rural-focused and nursing publications in 
2022 or 2023. The findings from this review will further the understanding of 
familiarity and how it affects rural life and nursing practice.
CONCLUSIONS: This review will support a full understanding and add clarity to 
the concept of familiarity as a component of rural life. These new insights will 
advance the understanding of how familiarity influences rural health care 
practice. The concept analysis will provide theoretical support for rural 
nursing theory and promote an understanding of the interrelationships of rural 
concepts.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): PRR1-10.2196/36930.

©Marilyn A Swan, Luke J Gietzen, Barbara B Hobbs. Originally published in JMIR 
Research Protocols (https://www.researchprotocols.org), 22.06.2022.

DOI: 10.2196/36930
PMCID: PMC9260531
PMID: 35731573

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


789. BMJ. 2022 Jun 22;377:e069573. doi: 10.1136/bmj-2021-069573.

Industry sponsorship bias in cost effectiveness analysis: registry based 
analysis.

Xie F(1)(2), Zhou T(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact, Faculty of 
Health Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada fengxie@mcmaster.ca.
(2)Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact, Faculty of 
Health Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(4)Centre for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcome Research, China Pharmaceutical 
University, Nanjing, China.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2022 Jun 22;377:o1452.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the association between industry sponsorship (drug, medical 
device, and biotechnology companies) and cost effectiveness results in cost 
effectiveness analysis (CEA).
DESIGN: Registry based analysis DATA SOURCE: The Tufts Cost-Effectiveness 
Analysis Registry was used to identify all CEAs published in Medline between 
1976 and 2021.
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SELECTING STUDIES: CEAs that reported incremental cost 
effectiveness ratio (ICER) using quality adjusted life year and provided 
sufficient information about the magnitude or location of the ICER.
METHODS: Descriptive analyses were used to describe and compare the 
characteristics of CEAs with and without industry sponsorship. Logistic 
regression was used to identify the association between industry sponsorship and 
the cost effective conclusion using selected threshold values ($50 000 (£40 511; 
€47 405), $100 000, and $150 000). Robust linear regression was used to assess 
the association between industry sponsorship and the magnitude of ICER. All 
regression analyses were adjusted for disease and study design characteristics.
RESULTS: 8192 CEAs were eligible and included in the analysis, with 2437 (29.7%) 
sponsored by industry. Industry sponsored CEAs were more likely to publish ICERs 
below $50 000 (adjusted odds ratio 2.06, 95% confidence interval 1.82 to 2.33), 
$100 000 (2.95, 2.52 to 3.44), and $150 000 (3.34, 2.80 to 3.99) than 
non-industry sponsored studies. Among 5877 CEAs that reported positive 
incremental costs and quality adjusted life years, ICERs from industry sponsored 
studies were 33% lower (95% confidence interval -40 to -26) than those from 
non-industry sponsored studies.
CONCLUSIONS: Sponsorship bias in CEAs is significant, systemic, and present 
across a range of diseases and study designs. Use of CEAs conducted by 
independent bodies could provide payers with more ability to negotiate lower 
prices. This impartiality is especially important for countries that rely on 
published CEAs to inform policy making for insurance coverage because of limited 
capacity for independent economic analysis.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2019. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj-2021-069573
PMCID: PMC9214880
PMID: 35732297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf and 
declare: no support from any organisation for the submitted work; no financial 
relationships with any organisations that might have an interest in the 
submitted work in the previous three years; no other relationships or activities 
that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


790. BMJ Open. 2022 Jun 22;12(6):e052633. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-052633.

Harnessing new mHealth technologies to Strengthen the Management of 
Multidrug-Resistant Tuberculosis in Vietnam (V-SMART trial): a protocol for a 
randomised controlled trial.

Velen K(1), Nguyen VN(2), Nguyen BH(2), Dang T(3), Nguyen HA(4), Vu DH(4), Do 
TT(2), Pham Duc C(3), Nguyen HL(5), Pham HT(6), Marais BJ(7), Johnston J(8), 
Britton W(9)(10), Beardsley J(7), Negin J(11), Wiseman V(12)(13), Marks GB(14), 
Nguyen TA(15), Fox GJ(3)(16).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health and Medicine, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia Kavi.velen@sydney.edu.au.
(2)The National Lung Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(3)Woolcock Institute of Medical Research, Glebe, New South Wales, Australia.
(4)National Drug Information and Adverse Drug Reaction Monitoring Centre, Hanoi, 
Vietnam.
(5)Pham Ngoc Thach Hospital, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(6)Hanoi Lung Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(7)Faculty of Health and Medicine, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(8)BCCDC, University of British Columbia Faculty of Medicine, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(9)Centenary Institute of Cancer Medicine and Cell Biology, The University of 
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(10)Department of Clinical Immunology, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, New 
South Wales, Australia.
(11)School of Public Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(12)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of New South 
Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(13)Health Economics, LSHTM, London, UK.
(14)Woolcock Institute of Medical Research, Camperdown, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(15)Woolcock Institute of Medical Research, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(16)Central Clinical School, The University of Sydney Faculty of Medicine and 
Health, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) remains a major public 
health problem globally. Long, complex treatment regimens coupled with frequent 
adverse events have resulted in poor treatment adherence and patient outcomes. 
Smartphone-based mobile health (mHealth) technologies offer national TB 
programmes an appealing platform to improve patient care and management; 
however, clinical trial evidence to support their use is lacking. This trial 
will test the hypothesis that an mHealth intervention can improve treatment 
success among patients with MDR-TB and is cost-effective compared with standard 
practice.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A community-based, open-label, parallel-group randomised 
controlled trial will be conducted among patients treated for MDR-TB in seven 
provinces of Vietnam. Patients commencing therapy for microbiologically 
confirmed rifampicin-resistant or multidrug-resistant tuberculosis within the 
past 30 days will be recruited to the study. Participants will be individually 
randomised to an intervention arm, comprising use of an mHealth application for 
treatment support, or a 'standard care' arm. In both arms, patients will be 
