Molecular Life Sciences, Goethe University Frankfurt, Frankfurt am Main, 
Germany.
(2)Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(3)Institute of Organic Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Buchmann Institute for 
Molecular Life Sciences, Goethe University Frankfurt, Frankfurt am Main, 
Germany. grininger@chemie.uni-frankfurt.de.
(#)Contributed equally

Modification of polyketides with fluorine offers a promising approach to develop 
new pharmaceuticals. While synthetic chemical methods for site-selective 
incorporation of fluorine in complex molecules have improved in recent years, 
approaches for the biosynthetic incorporation of fluorine in natural compounds 
are still rare. Here, we report a strategy to introduce fluorine into complex 
polyketides during biosynthesis. We exchanged the native acyltransferase domain 
of a polyketide synthase, which acts as the gatekeeper for the selection of 
extender units, with an evolutionarily related but substrate tolerant domain 
from metazoan type I fatty acid synthase. The resulting 
polyketide-synthase/fatty-acid-synthase hybrid can utilize fluoromalonyl 
coenzyme A and fluoromethylmalonyl coenzyme A for polyketide chain extension, 
introducing fluorine or fluoro-methyl units in polyketide scaffolds. We 
demonstrate the feasibility of our approach in the chemoenzymatic synthesis of 
fluorinated 12- and 14-membered macrolactones and fluorinated derivatives of the 
macrolide antibiotics YC-17 and methymycin.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41557-022-00996-z
PMCID: PMC9832397
PMID: 35879443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: A.R. declares a financial 
interest as co-founder of kez.biosolutions GmbH (Potsdam, Germany). All other 
authors declare no competing interests.


247. Handb Exp Pharmacol. 2023;278:235-247. doi: 10.1007/164_2022_604.

The Plant Vacuole as Heterologous System to Characterize the Functional 
Properties of TPC Channels.

Dietrich P(1), Gradogna A(2), Carpaneto A(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Lehrstuhl für Molekulare Pflanzenphysiologie, Department Biologie 
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany.
(2)Institute of Biophysics, Genoa, Italy.
(3)Institute of Biophysics, Genoa, Italy. armando.carpaneto@unige.it.
(4)Department of Earth, Environment and Life Sciences (DISTAV) - University of 
Genoa, Genoa, Italy. armando.carpaneto@unige.it.

Human TPC channels are an emerging family of intracellular proteins fundamental 
for cell physiology and involved in various severe pathologies. Their 
localization in the membranes of endo-lysosomes, intracellular compartments of 
submicrometric dimensions, makes their study difficult with usual 
electrophysiological techniques. In this work, we show how the plant vacuole, a 
versatile organelle that can occupy up to 90% of the volume in mature plant 
cells, can be used as a heterologous system of expression for functional 
characterization. For this purpose, the use of vacuoles isolated from mesophyll 
cells of the Arabidopsis thaliana mutant lacking the endogenous TPC avoids 
unwanted interferences. The patch-clamp technique can be successfully applied to 
plant vacuoles in all different configuration modes; of note, the whole-vacuole 
configuration allows to study channel modulation by cytosolic factors. The 
combination of patch-clamp with fluorescence techniques, for example, by using 
fluorescent probes sensitive to specific ions of interest, represents a useful 
extension to investigate the selectivity properties of the channels. Therefore, 
the plant vacuole, similar to Xenopus oocytes for ion channels and transporters 
localized in the plasma membrane, has the capability to become a model system 
for functional studies on intracellular ion channels and transporters.

© 2022. Springer Nature Switzerland AG.

DOI: 10.1007/164_2022_604
PMID: 35879579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Rev Neurol. 2022 Aug 1;75(3):51-57. doi: 10.33588/rn.7503.2021527.

[Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA): normative data for Rosario metropolitan 
area population, Argentina].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Cervigni M(1), Martino P(1), Alfonso G(2), Politis D(1).

Author information:
(1)Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas de Argentina 
(CONICET), Rosario, Argentina.
(2)Universidad Argentina de la Empresa (UADE), Buenos Aires, Argentina.

INTRODUCTION: Population aging is a global phenomenon linked to increased life 
expectancy. In Argentina, it is expected that by 2025 those over 60 will 
represent 17.3% of the population, while by 2050 it will rise to 25.3%. Among 
the pathologies associated with aging, cognitive impairment and dementias 
represent an important problem for public health and demand effective 
instruments for their early detection.
OBJECTIVE: Obtain normative data for the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) in 
Argentine adults and seniors in the Rosario Metropolitan Area.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: The MoCA-Spanish version was administered according to the 
instructions published in the original version. An ad hoc survey was also 
administered to collect sociodemographic information and medical history. The 
influence of some sociodemographic variables on performance was analyzed. 225 
adult residents of the Rosario Metropolitan Area participated in the final 
sample (age: M = 66.1, standard deviation = 8.7).
RESULTS: Educational level predicted 13% of the variance of the total MoCA 
score, -F (3, 221) = 12.11; p < 0.01-. Other variables considered, such as age 
and sex, were not significant for predicting the score.
CONCLUSION: The normative data obtained suggest a cut-off point of 18 for people 
with primary education and of 22 for people with secondary or higher education. 
It should be noted that they are below those indicated in the pre-existing 
regulatory data. The importance of using norms adjusted to the sociocultural 
context is highlighted.

Publisher: TITLE: Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA): normas para la población 
del área metropolitana de Rosario, Argentina.
Introducción. El envejecimiento poblacional es un fenómeno de alcance global 
ligado al incremento de la expectativa de vida. En Argentina, se prevé que para 
2025 los mayores de 60 años representarán el 17,3% de la población, mientras que 
para 2050 serán el 25,3%. Entre las patologías asociadas al envejecimiento, el 
deterioro cognitivo y las demencias representan un importante problema para la 
salud pública y demandan instrumentos eficaces para su detección temprana. 
Objetivo. Obtener datos normativos para el Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) 
en adultos y mayores argentinos del área metropolitana de Rosario. Sujetos y 
métodos. Se administró el MoCA-versión en español, según las instrucciones 
publicadas en la versión original. Se administró, además, una encuesta ad hoc 
para el relevamiento de información sociodemográfica e historial médico. Se 
analizó la influencia de algunas variables sociodemográficas sobre el desempeño. 
Participaron en la muestra definitiva 225 adultos residentes del área 
metropolitana de Rosario (edad: media = 66,1; desviación estándar = 8,7). 
Resultados. El nivel educativo predijo el 13% de la varianza de la puntuación 
total del MoCA –F (3, 221) = 12,11; p menor de 0,01–. Otras variables 
consideradas, como la edad y el sexo, no resultaron significativas para la 
predicción de la puntuación. Conclusión. Los datos normativos obtenidos sugieren 
un punto de corte de 18 para personas con estudios primarios y de 22 para 
personas con estudios secundarios o superiores. Cabe destacar que éstos se 
encuentran por debajo de los indicados en los datos normativos preexistentes. Se 
resalta la importancia de utilizar normas ajustadas al contexto sociocultural.

DOI: 10.33588/rn.7503.2021527
PMCID: PMC10280772
PMID: 35879880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicto de intereses: Los autores declaran no 
tener ningún conflicto de interés.


249. J Cardiopulm Rehabil Prev. 2023 Jan 1;43(1):22-30. doi: 
10.1097/HCR.0000000000000705. Epub 2022 Jul 25.

A Community-Informed Virtual World-Based Cardiac Rehabilitation Program as an 
Extension of Center-Based Cardiac Rehabilitation: MIXED-METHODS ANALYSIS OF A 
MULTICENTER PILOT STUDY.

Brewer LC(1), Abraham H, Kaihoi B, Leth S, Egginton J, Slusser J, Scott C, 
Penheiter S, Albertie M, Squires R, Thomas R, Scales R, Trejo-Gutierrez J, 
Kopecky S.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Cardiovascular Medicine (Drs Brewer, Squires, Thomas, and 
Kopecky and Ms Leth) and Internal Medicine (Dr Abraham), Mayo Clinic College of 
Medicine, Rochester, Minnesota; Center for Health Equity and Community 
Engagement Research, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota (Drs Brewer, and 
Penheiter); Global Products and Services, Mayo Clinic Center for Innovation, 
Rochester, Minnesota (Mr Kaihoi); Center for the Science of Health Care 
Delivery, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, Minnesota (Mr Egginton); 
Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Division of Clinical Trials and 
Biostatistics, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota (Messrs Slusser and Scott); 
Center for Health Equity and Community Engagement Research, Mayo Clinic, 
Jacksonville, Florida (Ms Albertie); Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Mayo 
Clinic College of Medicine, Scottsdale, Arizona (Dr Scales); and Department of 
Cardiovascular Medicine, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Jacksonville, Florida 
(Dr Trejo-Gutierrez).

PURPOSE: Innovative methods for delivering cardiac rehabilitation (CR) that 
provide strategies to circumvent the mounting barriers to traditional CR have 
the potential to widen access to a well-established secondary prevention 
strategy. Our study assesses the feasibility and acceptability of a novel 
virtual world-based CR (VWCR) program, Destination Rehab , as an extension of a 
conventional center-based CR program.
METHODS: Adult cardiac patients hospitalized at Mayo Clinic hospitals with a 
diagnosis for CR and ≥1 modifiable, lifestyle risk factor target-sedentary 
lifestyle (<3 hr physical activity/wk), unhealthy diet (<5 servings fruits and 
vegetables/d), or current smoking (>1 yr)-were recruited. Patients participated 
in an 8-wk health education program using a virtual world (VW) platform from a 
prior proof-of-concept study and a post-intervention focus group. Primary 
outcome measures included feasibility and acceptability. Secondary outcome 
measures included changes from baseline to post-intervention in cardiovascular 
(CV) health behaviors and biometrics, CV health knowledge, and psychosocial 
factors.
RESULTS: Of the 30 enrolled patients (age 59.1 ± 9.7 yr; 50% women), 93% 
attended ≥1 session and 71% attended ≥75% of sessions. The overall VWCR 
experience received an 8 rating (scale 0-10) and had high acceptability. 
Clinically relevant trends were noted in CV health behaviors and biometrics, 
although not statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: The VWCR program is a feasible, highly acceptable, and innovative 
platform to potentially influence health behaviors and CV risk and may increase 
accessibility to disadvantaged populations with higher CV disease burdens.

Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/HCR.0000000000000705
PMCID: PMC10340723
PMID: 35881503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


250. Genome Biol Evol. 2022 Aug 3;14(8):evac120. doi: 10.1093/gbe/evac120.

Chromosome-Scale Genome Assembly of the Hexaploid Taiwanese Goosefoot "Djulis" 
(Chenopodium formosanum).

Jarvis DE(1), Sproul JS(2), Navarro-Domínguez B(3), Krak K(4), Jaggi K(1), Huang 
YF(5), Huang TY(6), Lin TC(7), Jellen EN(1), Maughan PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant and Wildlife Sciences, Brigham Young University, Provo, 
Utah 84602, USA.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska 68182, 
USA.
(3)Departamento de Genética, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Granada, 
Granada 18071, Spain.
(4)Department of Ecology, Czech University of Life Sciences, Prague 16500, Czech 
Republic.
(5)Department of Agronomy, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Crop Improvement, Taitung District Agricultural Research and 
Extension Station, Taitung City 950244, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Plant Industry, National Pingtung University of Science and 
Technology, Neipu 91201, Taiwan.

Djulis (Chenopodium formosanum Koidz.) is a crop grown since antiquity in 
Taiwan. It is a BCD-genome hexaploid (2n = 6x = 54) domesticated form of 
lambsquarters (C. album L.) and a relative of the allotetraploid (AABB) C. 
quinoa. As with quinoa, djulis seed contains a complete protein profile and many 
nutritionally important vitamins and minerals. While still sold locally in 
Taiwanese markets, its traditional culinary uses are being lost as diets of 
younger generations change. Moreover, indigenous Taiwanese peoples who have long 
safeguarded djulis are losing their traditional farmlands. We used PacBio 
sequencing and Hi-C-based scaffolding to produce a chromosome-scale, 
reference-quality assembly of djulis. The final genome assembly spans 1.63 Gb in 
798 scaffolds, with 97.8% of the sequence contained in 27 scaffolds representing 
the nine haploid chromosomes of each sub-genome of the species. Benchmarking of 
universal, single-copy orthologs indicated that 98.5% of the conserved 
orthologous genes for Viridiplantae are complete within the assembled genome, 
with 92.9% duplicated, as expected for a polyploid. A total of 67.8% of the 
assembly is repetitive, with the most common repeat being Gypsy long terminal 
repeat retrotransposons, which had significantly expanded in the B sub-genome. 
Gene annotation using Iso-Seq data from multiple tissues identified 75,056 
putative gene models. Comparisons to quinoa showed strong patterns of synteny 
which allowed for the identification of homoeologous chromosomes, and 
sub-genome-specific sequences were used to assign homoeologs to each sub-genome. 
These results represent the first hexaploid genome assembly and the first 
assemblies of the C and D genomes of the Chenopodioideae subfamily.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society 
for Molecular Biology and Evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/gbe/evac120
PMCID: PMC9356728
PMID: 35881674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2022;1370:173-184. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-93337-1_17.

Grading of Japanese Diet Intakes by 24-Hour Urine Analysis of Taurine and Soy 
Isoflavones in Relation to Cardiovascular Risks.

Mori M(1), Sagara M(2), Mori H(2), Yamori Y(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Studies, Tokai University, Hiratsuka, Japan.
(2)Institute for World Health Development, Mukogawa Women's University, 
Nishinomiya, Japan.
(3)Institute for World Health Development, Mukogawa Women's University, 
Nishinomiya, Japan. yamori@cardiacstudy.com.

To investigate the association of the Japanese diet with risks for 
lifestyle-related diseases, the biomarkers of seafood and soybean consumption, 
taurine (T) and soy isoflavones (I), and others were analyzed in 24-hour urine 
(24U) samples collected from participants of the Cardiovascular Diseases and 
Alimentary Comparison (CARDIAC) Study coordinated by the World Health 
Organization (WHO). The data of T and I normalized for creatinine content in 24U 
were divided into five quintiles, T1 to T5, and I1 to I5. The total data of the 
collected samples were divided into 25 groups, which were obtained by 5 
(T1-T5) × 5 (I1-I5) according to 24U excretions of T and I corresponding to the 
intake of seafood and soybeans from the least to the highest, respectively. 
Since these two nutrients were often consumed together in the Japanese diet, 
this characteristic was expressed as J1 to J5 based on the amounts of 24U T and 
I excretions. The risks for lifestyle-related diseases, obesity (body mass 
index, BMI), and cholesterolemia became lower during the transition from J1 to 
J5, while HDL cholesterol levels became higher from J1 to J5. On the contrary, 
urinary salt excretion and the sodium (Na)/potassium (K) ratio became higher 
from J1 to J5. Systolic blood measure was significantly lower in J3 than in J5. 
Diastolic blood pressure was also significantly lower in J3 than in J1. In 
conclusion, the higher the J score, which corresponds to Japanese dietary 
habits, the lower the BMI and cholesterol levels, as well as mortality rate from 
coronary heart disease, but the higher the average life expectancy among the 
Japanese. However, these higher J scorings were associated with high-salt intake 
and high Na/K ratios; therefore, they contributed to high blood pressure and 
high mortality rate caused by stroke in Japan. These results indicate that 
low-salt intake should be recommended to the Japanese who are consuming seafood 
and soy regularly in order to maintain lower blood pressure and to extend 
healthy life expectancy with a lower risk of stroke. Moreover, high scorings of 
the Japanese diet correspond to the high intake of magnesium (Mg) which is rich 
in seafood including seaweeds and soy. Therefore, low-salt seafood and soy 
intake is expected to reduce the incidence of the metabolic syndrome, the risk 
of which is inversely related to T and Mg intake.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-93337-1_17
PMID: 35882793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Sci Rep. 2022 Jul 26;12(1):12736. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-17128-9.

National Burden and Trend of Cancer in Ethiopia, 2010-2019: a systemic analysis 
for Global burden of disease study.

Awedew AF(1), Asefa Z(2), Belay WB(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, SoM, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. 
atalel.fentahun@aau.edu.et.
(2)Department of Surgery, SoM, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Clinical Oncology, SoM, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, 
Ethiopia.

Over the last two decades, we have tracked the national burden of cancer and its 
trends in Ethiopia, providing estimates of incidence, death, and disability 
adjusted life years. In Ethiopia, there were an estimated 53,560 (95% UI 
52,480-55,540) new incident cases, 39,480 deaths (95% UI 32,640-46,440), and 
1.42 million (95% UI 1.16-1.68) DALYs of cancer 2019. Cancer incidence, death, 
and DALYs counts increased by 32% (95% UI 11-55%), 29% (95% UI 12-44%), and 19% 
(95% UI - 2 to 44%) between 2010 to 2019, respectively, while age-standardised 
incidence, death, and DALYs rates increased by 5% (95% UI - 7 to 18%), 2% (95% 
UI - 9 to 14%), and - 2% (95% UI - 15 to 12%) respectively. In 2019, the leading 
incidence cases were leukemia, cervical cancer, breast cancer, colon and rectum 
cancer, and stomach cancer, while leukemia, breast cancer, cervical cancer, and 
stomach cancer were the most common killer cancers in Ethiopia. According to the 
findings of this study, tobacco-related cancers such as pancreatic, kidney, and 
lung cancer have increased in Ethiopian females over the last decade, while 
genitourinary cancer has increased in Ethiopian males. Another significant 
finding was that infection-related cancers, such as stomach cancer and Hodgkin 
lymphoma, have been rapidly declining over the last decade.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-022-17128-9
PMCID: PMC9325704
PMID: 35882895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


253. BMC Geriatr. 2022 Jul 26;22(1):622. doi: 10.1186/s12877-022-03309-8.

Rising living alone among the elderly in Iran: prevalence and associated 
factors.

Shams Ghahfarokhi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Sciences, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran. 
m.shams@ltr.ui.ac.ir.

BACKGROUND: This study first examines the pattern and trend of elderly living 
alone during the last five censuses in Iran. Then, after describing the 
characteristics of the elderly who live alone, it determines how social, 
economic, and demographic characteristics relate to the solo living of the 
elderly.
METHODS: The data for people aged 60 and above are from two sources, including 
the aggregate data from five successive Iranian censuses and the individual data 
of 2% of the 2016 Iranian census. To determine the relative importance of 
variables such as sex, age, education, and activity status of the elderly, a set 
of logistic regression models using STATA software has been used for individual 
data analysis of the 2016 census.
RESULTS: The proportion of older people living alone in 1986, 1996, 2006, 2011, 
and 2016 was 9.1, 9.0, 10.9, 14.5, and 14.9%, respectively. City residents are 
less likely to live alone than villagers, and women are more likely to live 
alone than men. The odds of living solo among Illiterate, Primary school, 
Secondary & High school and Holding a high school diploma elderly higher than 
those with university education. Being a student and homemaker increases solo 
living relative to employees, but pensioners reduce solo living relative to 
employees. Moreover, the odds of solo living of the elderly in the early and 
middle stages of old age is less than in late old age. Also, the variables 
included in the analysis explained 16% of the variation in solo living.
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of elderly solo living is increasing. And this 
increase continues due to the fundamental decline in childbearing, changes in 
family structure, and the effects of culture and tradition. Also, due to the 
rise in life expectancy, which increases the number of years of life with the 
disease, and disability, the lack of relief organizations will create more 
difficult conditions for the older people living alone.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-022-03309-8
PMCID: PMC9327280
PMID: 35883051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


254. Cells. 2022 Jul 12;11(14):2178. doi: 10.3390/cells11142178.

Effects of Toxic AGEs (TAGE) on Human Health.

Takeuchi M(1), Sakasai-Sakai A(1), Takata T(2), Takino JI(3), Koriyama Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Advanced Medicine, Medical Research Institute, Kanazawa Medical 
University, 1-1 Daigaku, Uchinada-machi, Kahoku 920-0293, Ishikawa, Japan.
(2)Department of Life Science, Medical Research Institute, Kanazawa Medical 
University, 1-1 Daigaku, Uchinada-machi, Kahoku 920-0293, Ishikawa, Japan.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hiroshima 
International University, 5-1-1 Hirokoshingai, Kure 737-0112, Hiroshima, Japan.
(4)Graduate School and Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Suzuka University of 
Medical Science, 3500-3 Minamitamagaki, Suzuka 513-8670, Mie, Japan.

The habitual and excessive consumption of sugar (i.e., sucrose and high-fructose 
corn syrup, HFCS) is associated with the onset and progression of 
lifestyle-related diseases (LSRD). Advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) have 
recently been the focus of research on the factors contributing to LSRD. 
Approaches that inhibit the effects of AGEs may be used to prevent and/or treat 
LSRD; however, since the structures of AGEs vary depending on the type of 
reducing sugars or carbonyl compounds to which they respond, difficulties are 
associated with verifying that AGEs are an etiological factor. Cytotoxic AGEs 
derived from glyceraldehyde, a triose intermediate in the metabolism of glucose 
and fructose, have been implicated in LSRD and are called toxic AGEs (TAGE). A 
dietary imbalance (the habitual and excessive intake of sucrose, HFCS, or 
dietary AGEs) promotes the generation/accumulation of TAGE in vivo. Elevated 
circulating levels of TAGE have been detected in non-diabetics and diabetics, 
indicating a strong relationship between the generation/accumulation of TAGE in 
vivo and the onset and progression of LSRD. We herein outline current findings 
on "TAGE as a new target" for human health.

DOI: 10.3390/cells11142178
PMCID: PMC9317028
PMID: 35883620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that no conflict of interest 
exist.


255. Antioxidants (Basel). 2022 Jul 20;11(7):1406. doi: 10.3390/antiox11071406.

Oral Feeding of an Antioxidant Cocktail as a Therapeutic Strategy in a Mouse 
Model of Rett Syndrome: Merits and Limitations of Long-Term Treatment.

Baroncelli L(1)(2)(3), Auel S(1), Rinne L(1), Schuster AK(1), Brand V(1), 
Kempkes B(1), Dietrich K(1), Müller M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Neuro- und Sinnesphysiologie, Universitätsmedizin Göttingen, 
Georg-August-Universität Göttingen, Humboldtallee 23, D-37073 Göttingen, 
Germany.
(2)Institute of Neuroscience, National Research Council (CNR), via Giuseppe 
Moruzzi 1, I-56124 Pisa, Italy.
(3)Department of Developmental Neuroscience, IRCCS Stella Maris Foundation, 
Viale del Tirreno 331, I-56128 Pisa, Italy.

Rett syndrome (RTT) is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder that typically 
arises from spontaneous germline mutations in the X-chromosomal methyl-CpG 
binding protein 2 (MECP2) gene. For the first 6-18 months of life, the 
development of the mostly female patients appears normal. Subsequently, 
cognitive impairment, motor disturbances, hand stereotypies, epilepsy, and 
irregular breathing manifest, with previously learned skills being lost. Early 
mitochondrial impairment and a systemic oxidative burden are part of the complex 
pathogenesis, and contribute to disease progression. Accordingly, partial 
therapeutic merits of redox-stabilizing and antioxidant (AO) treatments were 
reported in RTT patients and Mecp2-mutant mice. Pursuing these findings, we 
conducted a full preclinical trial on male and female mice to define the 
therapeutic value of an orally administered AO cocktail composed of vitamin E, 
N-acetylcysteine, and α-lipoic acid. AO treatment ameliorated some of the 
microcephaly-related aspects. Moreover, the reduced growth, lowered blood 
glucose levels, and the hippocampal synaptic plasticity of Mecp2-/y mice 
improved. However, the first-time detected intensified oxidative DNA damage in 
Mecp2-mutant cortex persisted. The behavioral performance, breathing regularity, 
and life expectancy of Mecp2-mutant mice did not improve upon AO treatment. 
Long-term-treated Mecp2+/- mice eventually became obese. In conclusion, the AO 
cocktail ameliorated a subset of symptoms of the complex RTT-related phenotype, 
thereby further confirming the potential merits of AO-based pharmacotherapies. 
Yet, it also became evident that long-term AO treatment may lose efficacy and 
even aggravate the metabolic disturbances in RTT. This emphasizes the importance 
of a constantly well-balanced redox balance for systemic well-being.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox11071406
PMCID: PMC9311910
PMID: 35883897

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


256. Children (Basel). 2022 Jun 29;9(7):972. doi: 10.3390/children9070972.

Effects of Anonymity versus Examinee Name on a Measure of Depressive Symptoms in 
Adolescents.

Merino-Soto C(1), Copez-Lonzoy A(2), Toledano-Toledano F(3)(4), Nabors LA(5), 
Rodrígez-Castro JH(6), Hernández-Salinas G(7), Núñez-Benítez MÁ(8).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Investigación en Psicología, Universidad de San Martin de 
Porres, Av. Tomas Marsano 342, Lima 34, Peru.
(2)Unidad de Investigación en Bibliometría, Universidad San Ignacio de Loyola, 
Av. la Fontana 750, Lima 12, Peru.
(3)Unidad de Investigación en Medicina Basada en Evidencias, Hospital Infantil 
de México Federico Gómez National Institute of Health, Dr. Márquez 162, 
Doctores, Cuauhtémoc, Mexico City 06720, Mexico.
(4)Unidad de Investigación Sociomédica, Instituto Nacional de Rehabilitación 
Luis Guillermo Ibarra Ibarra, Calzada México-Xochimilco 289, Arenal de 
Guadalupe, Tlalpan, Mexico City 14389, Mexico.
(5)School of Human Services, College of Education, Criminal Justice and Human 
Services, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 45221-0068, USA.
(6)Tecnológico Nacional de Mexico, Instituto Tecnológico de Ciudad Victoria, 
División de Estudios de Posgrado e Investigación, Boulevard Emilio Portes Gil 
#1301 Pte. A.P. 175 C.P., Ciudad Victoria 87010, Mexico.
(7)Tecnológico Nacional de México/Instituto Tecnológico Superior de 
Zongolica-Extensión Tezonapa, Km. 4 Carr. a La Compañia S/N, Tepetitlanapa, 
Zongolica 95005, Mexico.
(8)Unidad de Medicina Familiar 31, Ermita Iztapalapa 1771, 8va Amp San Miguel, 
Iztapalapa, Mexico City 09837, Mexico.

There is evidence in the literature that anonymity when investigating individual 
variables could increase the objectivity of the measurement of some psychosocial 
constructs. However, there is a significant gap in the literature on the 
theoretical and methodological usefulness of simultaneously assessing the same 
measurement instrument across two groups, with one group remaining anonymous and 
a second group revealing identities using names. Therefore, the aim of this 
study was to compare the psychometric characteristics of a measure of depressive 
symptoms in two groups of adolescents as a consequence of identification or 
anonymity at the time of answering the measuring instrument. The participants 
were 189 adolescents from Metropolitan Lima; classrooms were randomly assigned 
to the identified group (n = 89; application requesting to write one's own name) 
or to the anonymous group (n = 100; application under usual conditions), who 
responded to the Childhood Depression Inventory, short version (CDI-S). 
Univariate characteristics (mean, dispersion, distribution), dimensionality, 
reliability, and measurement invariance were analyzed. Specific results in each 
of the statistical and psychometric aspects evaluated indicated strong 
psychometric similarity. The practical and ethical implications of the present 
results for professional and research activity are discussed.

DOI: 10.3390/children9070972
PMCID: PMC9315511
PMID: 35883956

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


257. Foods. 2022 Jul 7;11(14):2013. doi: 10.3390/foods11142013.

Lentil-Based Yogurt Alternatives Fermented with Multifunctional Strains of 
Lactic Acid Bacteria-Techno-Functional, Microbiological, and Sensory 
Characteristics.

Boeck T(1), Ispiryan L(1), Hoehnel A(1), Sahin AW(1), Coffey A(2)(3), Zannini 
E(1), Arendt EK(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Food and Nutritional Sciences, University College Cork, T12 K8AF 
Cork, Ireland.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Munster Technological University, T12 P928 
Cork, Ireland.
(3)APC Microbiome Ireland, University College Cork, T12 K8AF Cork, Ireland.

A milk-alternative produced from lentil protein isolate was fermented with three 
multifunctional strains of lactic acid bacteria, Leuconostoc citreum TR116, 
Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides MP070, and Lacticaseibacillus paracasei FST 6.1. 
As a control, a commercial starter culture containing Streptococcus thermophilus 
was used. The metabolic performance of these strains and the techno-functional 
properties of the resulting yogurt alternatives (YA) were studied. Microbial 
growth was evaluated by cell counts, acidification, and carbohydrate 
metabolization. The structure of the YA was investigated by textural and 
rheological analyses and confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). Production 
of antifungal compounds, the influence of fermentation on the content of 
FODMAPs, and typical metabolites were analyzed, and a sensory analysis was 
performed. The results revealed an exponential microbial growth in the lentil 
base substrate supported by typical acidification, which indicates a suitable 
environment for the selected strains. The resulting YA showed a gel-like texture 
typical for non-stirred yogurts, and high water holding capacity. The tested 
strains produced much higher levels of antifungal phenolic compounds than the 
commercial control and are therefore promising candidates as adjunct cultures 
for shelf-life extension. The Leuconostoc strains produced mannitol from 
fructose and could thus be applied in sugar-reduced YA. Preliminary sensory 
analysis showed high acceptance for YA produced with Lacticaseibacillus 
paracasei FST 6.1, and a yogurt-like flavor not statistically different to that 
produced by the control. Overall, each tested strain possessed promising 
functionalities with great potential for application in fermented plant-based 
dairy-alternatives.

DOI: 10.3390/foods11142013
PMCID: PMC9317967
PMID: 35885256

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


258. Foods. 2022 Jul 7;11(14):2017. doi: 10.3390/foods11142017.

Raw and Cooked Quality of Gilthead Seabream Fillets (Sparus aurata, L.) after 
Mild Processing via Osmotic Dehydration for Shelf Life Extension.

Alexi N(1), Sfyra K(1), Basdeki E(2)(3), Athanasopoulou E(2), Spanou A(2), 
Chryssolouris M(3), Tsironi T(2).

Author information:
(1)Food Quality Perception and Society Science Team, iSENSE Lab, Department of 
Food Science, Faculty of Technical Sciences, Aarhus University, Agro Food Park 
48, 8200 Aarhus N, Denmark.
(2)Laboratory of Food Process Engineering, Department of Food Science and Human 
Nutrition, Agricultural University of Athens, Iera Odos 75, 11855 Athens, 
Greece.
(3)SuSea BV, High Tech Campus 1, 5656 AE Eindhoven, The Netherlands.

The current study aimed to explore the effects of mild processing for shelf-life 
extension on the raw an-d cooked quality of gilthead seabream fillets stored at 
2 °C. Control and Treated (via osmotic dehydration) fillets were sampled at the 
beginning (D1), middle (D5) and end (D7) of commercial shelf life. The raw 
quality was evaluated via the quality index method (QIM), microbial measurements 
and for D1 through tetrad discrimination testing. The cooked quality was 
evaluated for the same samples via sensory descriptive analyses with a trained 
panel. The tetrad results indicated similar characteristics between treatments 
for raw fillets on D1 and a 29% shelf-life extension for Treated fillets vs. the 
Control ones, defined by Quality Index Method and microbial measurements. The 
raw quality was reflected in the cooked quality of the tissue, with the Treated 
fillets exhibiting less intense spoilage-related sensory attributes as well as 
enhanced or retained freshness-related attributes throughout storage, when 
compared to the Control ones. A range of treatment induced sensory 
characteristics, partly associated to Maillard reactions, were developed in the 
Treated fillets. Overall, the treatment affected positively both the raw and 
cooked quality of the fillet, showing promising results as a shelf-life 
extension method for fish fillet preservation.

DOI: 10.3390/foods11142017
PMCID: PMC9318255
PMID: 35885260

Conflict of interest statement: Niki Alexi, Konstantina Sfyra, Eugenia Basdeki, 
Evmorfia Athanasopoulou, Aikaterini Spanou and Theofania Tsironi declare no 
conflict of interest. Marios Chryssolouris reports that he is an employee and 
owner of SuSea BV. The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the 
collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the 
manuscript, or in the decision to publish the results. The work reflects only 
the views of the authors and does not reflect the views of the European Union.


259. Healthcare (Basel). 2022 Jul 5;10(7):1253. doi: 10.3390/healthcare10071253.

Implementation and Acceptance of Information and Communication Technology 
Incorporated into Long-Term Care.

Chiang YC(1)(2), Hsieh YC(3), Wu F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Information Management, National Chung-Cheng University, 
Chia-Yi 621301, Taiwan.
(2)Taichung Tzu-Chi Hospital, The Buddhist Tzu Chi Medical Foundation, Taichung 
427213, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Business Administration, National Chung-Cheng University, 
Chia-Yi 621301, Taiwan.

Every country in the world is facing serious demographic aging, since the 
average life expectancy is consistently increasing. Agencies involved in the 
implementation of caregiving through long-term care institutions can develop 
more convenient approaches using information and communication technology to 
enhance overall efficiency. Communication technology has enabled the 
strengthening of physiological instruments, improving the efficiency and quality 
of services, while integrating management systems for optimum efficiency. This 
work conducted empirical studies, collecting responses to questionnaires from 
residents and caregivers in five institutions located in the south of Taiwan. 
The PZB model, proposed by Parasuraman, Zeithaml, and Berry, was used to 
construct the questionnaire to analyze the service quality following the 
incorporation of information and communication technology. The results of the 
empirical study show that 34% and 63% of the relatives of the residents agreed 
and strongly agreed that the system was practical and convenient, respectively. 
As for the caregivers, 77% of them agreed or strongly agreed that the system was 
mobile, practical, and convenient, and they agreed that the system could 
significantly increase working efficiency, reduce waiting time, and improve 
administration for chronic diseases among care-home residents.

DOI: 10.3390/healthcare10071253
PMCID: PMC9361131
PMID: 35885780

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


260. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Jul 6;19(14):8268. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19148268.

Echocardiographic Assessment of Left Ventricular Function 10 Years after the 
Ultra-Endurance Running Event Eco-Trail de Paris(®) 2011.

Jouffroy R(1)(2)(3)(4), Benaceur O(1), Toussaint JF(2)(4)(5), Antero J(2).

Author information:
(1)Intensive Care Unit, Ambroise Paré Hospital, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de 
Paris, 92100 Boulogne-Billancourt, France.
(2)IRMES-Institute for Research in Medicine and Epidemiology of Sport, 
INSEP-National Institute of Sport, Expertise, and Performance, 75012 Paris, 
France.
(3)INSERM U-1018, Centre de Recherche en Epidémiologie et Santé des Populations, 
Paris Saclay University, 94800 Paris, France.
(4)URP 7329, Université de Paris, 75012 Paris, France.
(5)Centre d'Investigations en Médecine du Sport, Hôpital Hôtel-Dieu AP-HP, 75004 
Paris, France.

Background: Regular and moderate physical activity is beneficial for physical 
and mental health, resulting in an increase in life expectancy for both sexes. 
From a cardiovascular point of view, although the benefits of regular moderate 
physical exercise have been established, the long-term effects of repeated 
ultra-endurance running events are still unknown. Hypothesis: The aim of our 
study is to evaluate the 10-year evolution of the parameters of the left 
ventricular systolic and diastolic functions of amateur subjects regularly 
practising ultra-endurance running events using resting echocardiography. Study 
design: Cross-sectional study. Level of evidence: Level 3-non-randomized 
controlled cohort/follow-up study. Methods: The 66 participants who participated 
in the 2011 edition of the Eco-Trail de Paris® were contacted by e-mail. 
Demographic data, sports practice, and the results of an echocardiography scan 
carried out during the year 2021 evaluating left ventricular systolic and 
diastolic function variables were collected. Echographic variables from 2011 and 
2021 were compared using the paired Student's t-test. Results: Forty-six (70%) 
participants responded positively. Twenty (30%) participants could not be 
reached and were not analysed. Of the 46 respondents, 42 (91%) provided data 
from a trans-thoracic cardiac ultrasound performed in 2021. Over the past 10 
years, the participants reported having completed an average of 4 ± 2 
ultra-trails per year. No significant differences were observed between left 
ventricular diastolic and systolic echocardiographic parameters between the 
years 2011 and 2021. Conclusions: Among amateur participants, long-distance 
running is not associated with an alteration in the echocardiographic parameters 
of resting left ventricular systolic and diastolic function after 10 years of 
practice. Clinical relevance: Long-term long-distance running practice is not 
associated with left ventricular cardiac function alteration. These results 
suggest a potential adaptation role of the cardiovascular system to regular and 
moderate long-distance running practice.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19148268
PMCID: PMC9318254
PMID: 35886119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


261. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Jul 16;19(14):8677. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19148677.

Management of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus in Elderly Patients with Frailty and/or 
Sarcopenia.

Sanz-Cánovas J(1)(2), López-Sampalo A(1)(2), Cobos-Palacios L(1)(2), Ricci 
M(1)(2), Hernández-Negrín H(1)(2), Mancebo-Sevilla JJ(1)(2), Álvarez-Recio 
E(1)(2), López-Carmona MD(1)(2), Pérez-Belmonte LM(1)(2), Gómez-Huelgas 
R(1)(2)(3), Bernal-López MR(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Gestión Clínica de Medicina Interna, Hospital Regional 
Universitario de Málaga, Universidad de Málaga (UMA), 29010 Málaga, Spain.
(2)Instituto de Investigación Biomédica de Málaga (IBIMA-Plataforma Bionand), 
29590 Málaga, Spain.
(3)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y 
Nutrición (CIBERobn), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 28029 Madrid, Spain.

The life expectancy of the population is increasing worldwide due to 
improvements in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases. This 
favors a higher prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in the elderly. 
Sarcopenia and frailty are also frequently present in aging. These three 
entities share common mechanisms such as insulin resistance, chronic 
inflammation, and mitochondrial dysfunction. The coexistence of these situations 
worsens the prognosis of elderly patients. In this paper, we review the main 
measures for the prevention and management of sarcopenia and/or frailty in 
elderly patients with T2DM.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19148677
PMCID: PMC9318510
PMID: 35886528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


262. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Jul 19;19(14):8787. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19148787.

Prevalence, Management, and Associated Factors of Obesity, Hypertension, and 
Diabetes in Tibetan Population Compared with China Overall.

Peng W(1)(2), Li K(2), Yan AF(3), Shi Z(4), Zhang J(5), Cheskin LJ(6)(7), 
Hussain A(8)(9), Wang Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Nutrition and Health Promotion Center, Department of Public Health, Medical 
College, Qinghai University, Xining 810016, China.
(2)Global Health Institute, School of Public Health, Xi'an Jiaotong University, 
Xi'an 710049, China.
(3)Division of Research Patient Care Services, Stanford Health Care, Palo Alto, 
CA 94305, USA.
(4)Human Nutrition Department, College of Health Sciences, QU Health, Qatar 
University, Doha 2713, Qatar.
(5)Department of Clinical Nutrition, The Third People's Hospital of Chengdu, 
Chengdu 610014, China.
(6)Department of Nutrition and Food Studies, College of Health and Human 
Services, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA 22030, USA.
(7)Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21218, USA.
(8)International Diabetes Federation (IDF), 1000 Brussels, Belgium.
(9)Faculty of Health Sciences, Belgian and Nord University, 8001 Bodø, Norway.

Tibetans' life expectancy lags behind China's average. Obesity and 
noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) contribute to health disparity, but NCD patterns 
among Tibetans are unknown. To examine the prevalence, management, and 
associated factors for obesity, hypertension, and diabetes among Tibetans, 
compared with China's average, we systematically searched PubMed and China 
National Knowledge Infrastructure databases for studies between January 2010 and 
April 2021. Thirty-nine studies were included for systematic review, among 
thirty-seven that qualified for meta-analysis, with 115,403 participants. Pooled 
prevalence was 47.9% (95% CI 38.0-57.8) for overweight/obesity among adults (BMI 
≥ 24 kg/m2) and 15.4% (13.7-17.2) among children using Chinese criteria, which 
are lower than the national rates of 51.2% and 19.0%, respectively. The estimate 
for hypertension (31.4% [27.1-35.7]) exceeded China's average (27.5%), while 
diabetes (7.5% [5.2-9.8]) was lower than average (11.9%). Men had a higher 
prevalence of the three conditions than women. Residents in urban areas, rural 
areas, and Buddhist institutes had monotonically decreased prevalence in 
hypertension and diabetes. Awareness, treatment, and control rates for 
hypertension and diabetes were lower than China's average. Urban residence and 
high altitude were consistent risk factors for hypertension. Limited studies 
investigated factors for diabetes, yet none exist for obesity. Tibetans have 
high burdens of obesity and hypertension. Representative and longitudinal 
studies are needed for tailored interventions. There are considerable variations 
in study design, study sample selection, and data-analysis methods, as well as 
estimates of reviewed studies.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19148787
PMCID: PMC9316255
PMID: 35886633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as potential conflict of interest.


263. Insects. 2022 Jul 14;13(7):632. doi: 10.3390/insects13070632.

The Effect of Species Soybean Vein Necrosis Orthotospovirus (SVNV) on Life Table 
Parameters of Its Vector, Soybean Thrips (Neohydatothrips variabilis 
Thysanoptera: Thripidae).

Hameed A(1), Rosa C(2), Rajotte EG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, 
State College, PA 16802, USA.
(2)Plant Pathology and Environmental Microbiology, Pennsylvania State 
University, University Park, State College, PA 16802, USA.

Soybean vein necrosis orthotospovirus (SVNV: Tospoviridae: Orthotospovirus), the 
causal agent of soybean vein necrosis disease, is vectored by soybean thrips 
Neohydatothrips variabilis (Beach, 1896), and to a lesser extent by five other 
thrips species. There is increasing incidence of soybean vein necrosis (SVN) 
disease in all soybean growing states in the United States, Canada, Egypt and 
Pakistan, necessitating a study of the system's ecology and management. We 
addressed the effect of SVNV on the life table parameters of the vector. We used 
an 'age-stage two-sex' life table approach, which provided detailed life stage 
durations of each larval instar and adults (both sexes). Our results showed that 
the intrinsic rate of increase (r), finite rate of increase (λ) and mortality 
index (qx) were higher in the infected population, while the net reproduction 
rate (Ro), cumulative probability of survival (lx) and gross reproduction rate 
(GRR) were lower in the uninfected population. Overall, in both infected and 
uninfected populations, the number of eggs producing haploid males via 
arrhenotoky ranged from 9-12 per female. Male to female ratio was female biased 
in the infected population. Overall, our study provided evidence that virus 
infection, by decreasing the population doubling time, could enhance the virus 
and vector populations in soybeans.

DOI: 10.3390/insects13070632
PMCID: PMC9324745
PMID: 35886808

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


264. J Clin Med. 2022 Jul 7;11(14):3961. doi: 10.3390/jcm11143961.

Gray-Scale, Color Doppler, Spectral Doppler, and Contrast-Enhanced Renal Artery 
Ultrasound: Imaging Techniques and Features.

Park BK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul 06351, Korea.

Renal artery stenosis (RAS) is increasingly being detected in elderly patients 
as life expectancy increases. RAS induces hypertension or reduces renal 
function. Computed tomography or magnetic resonance angiography are objective in 
detecting RAS but may cause iodine-induced nephrotoxicity or nephrogenic 
systemic fibrosis in patients with RAS. Ultrasound (US) is, by contrast, a 
noninvasive and real-time imaging modality useful in patients with reduced renal 
function. Renal US is not as sensitive for detecting RAS because this technique 
indirectly assesses the renal artery by analyzing intrarenal hemodynamic 
changes. Although, ideally, US would be used to directly evaluate the renal 
artery, its current utility for RAS detection remains unclear. The purpose of 
this review is to introduce how to assess renal artery with US, to describe 
imaging features of renal artery US, to compare renal artery US and renal US, 
and to show how to perform work-up in patients in whom RAS is suspected.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11143961
PMCID: PMC9318477
PMID: 35887726

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


265. J Clin Med. 2022 Jul 13;11(14):4041. doi: 10.3390/jcm11144041.

Auxological and Endocrinological Features in Children and Adolescents with 
Cystic Fibrosis.

Ferrari V(1), Terlizzi V(2), Stagi S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Florence, Anna Meyer Children's 
University Hospital, 50100 Florence, Italy.
(2)Cystic Fibrosis Regional Reference Center, Department of Paediatric Medicine, 
Meyer Children's Hospital, 50139 Florence, Italy.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a multisystem autosomal recessive disease caused by 
mutations that lead to deficient or dysfunctional CF transmembrane conductance 
regulator (CFTR) proteins. Patients typically present malnutrition resulting 
from the malabsorption of fundamental nutrients and recurring lung infections, 
with a progressive worsening of the respiratory function. For these reasons, the 
clinical management of CF requires a multidisciplinary team. From an 
endocrinological point of view, patients often present major complications, such 
as diabetes, bone disease, thyroid disorders, delayed growth and puberty, 
hypogonadism and infertility, which negatively affect their quality of life and, 
in some cases, significantly reduce life expectancy. These complications can 
arise as a direct result of CFTR dysfunction and/or as a consequence of a 
deterioration in the function of the organs affected. The objective of this 
review is to analyze all the possible endocrinological complications that can 
occur in patients with CF by evaluating the most recent papers in the 
literature.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11144041
PMCID: PMC9323690
PMID: 35887806

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


266. Life (Basel). 2022 Jun 24;12(7):949. doi: 10.3390/life12070949.

Onset Timing of Hyoid Muscles Activation during Cervical Flexion Is 
Position-Dependent: An EMG Study.

Sageshima H(1), Pavlů D(1), Dvořáčková D(1), Pánek D(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Physical Education and Sport, Charles University, 162 52 Prague, 
Czech Republic.

Due to the high prevalence of neck pain, considerable attention is paid to the 
function of cervical flexor muscles. Although the deep and superficial cervical 
flexor muscles have been evaluated, the impact of hyoid muscles on cervical 
flexion is still not well known. We, therefore, aimed to investigate the 
activation of hyoid muscles during physiological cervical flexion, and to 
determine the impact of different starting positions on cervical flexion muscle 
activation. The activities of bilateral sternocleidomastoid, scalene, 
suprahyoid, and infrahyoid muscles were evaluated by surface electromyography 
(EMG) in twenty young healthy volunteers. They performed a repetitive cervical 
flexion-extension movement, from neutral position of the head to the maximum 
flexion with the same speed set at eight seconds in a cycle, in three various 
positions (sitting, standing, and supine). In sitting and standing positions, 
the group of suprahyoid muscles was activated in advance of other cervical 
flexor muscles despite only significant differences were found in scalene 
muscles, and the activation of the group of infrahyoid muscles was 
time-synchronous with sternocleidomastoid muscles. On the other hand, in supine 
position, the activation of all measured cervical flexor muscles was 
significantly earlier and longer than in the other two positions. This study 
confirmed the empirical suggestion that hyoid muscles contributed to cervical 
flexion, and it confirmed that muscle activation was position dependent, even if 
the given movement is nearly identical.

DOI: 10.3390/life12070949
PMCID: PMC9316545
PMID: 35888039

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


267. Life (Basel). 2022 Jun 25;12(7):957. doi: 10.3390/life12070957.

Integration of Morphometrics and Machine Learning Enables Accurate Distinction 
between Wild and Farmed Common Carp.

Jafari O(1), Ebrahimi M(2), Hedayati SA(3), Zeinalabedini M(4), Poorbagher H(5), 
Nasrolahpourmoghadam M(5), Fernandes JMO(6).

Author information:
(1)International Sturgeon Research Institute, Iranian Fisheries Science Research 
Institute, Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization, Rasht 
416353464, Iran.
(2)Department of Biology, School of Basic Science, University of Qom, Qom 
3716146611, Iran.
