(3)Department of Fisheries, Faculty of Fisheries and Environmental Sciences, 
Gorgan University of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, Gorgan 
4913815739, Iran.
(4)Department of Genomics, Agricultural Biotechnology Research Institute of Iran 
(ABRII), Karaj 3135933151, Iran.
(5)Department of Fisheries Sciences, Faculty of Natural Resources, University of 
Tehran, Karaj 3158777871, Iran.
(6)Faculty of Biosciences and Aquaculture, Nord University, 8026 Bod√∏, Norway.

Morphology and feature selection are key approaches to address several issues in 
fisheries science and stock management, such as the hypothesis of admixture of 
Caspian common carp (Cyprinus carpio) and farmed carp stocks in Iran. The 
present study was performed to investigate the population classification of 
common carp in the southern Caspian basin using data mining algorithms to find 
the most important characteristic(s) differing between Iranian and farmed common 
carp. A total of 74 individuals were collected from three locations within the 
southern Caspian basin and from one farm between November 2015 and April 2016. A 
dataset of 26 traditional morphometric (TMM) attributes and a dataset of 14 
geometric landmark points were constructed and then subjected to various machine 
learning methods. In general, the machine learning methods had a higher 
prediction rate with TMM datasets. The highest decision tree accuracy of 77% was 
obtained by rule and decision tree parallel algorithms, and "head height on eye 
area" was selected as the best marker to distinguish between wild and farmed 
common carp. Various machine learning algorithms were evaluated, and we found 
that the linear discriminant was the best method, with 81.1% accuracy. The 
results obtained from this novel approach indicate that Darwin's domestication 
syndrome is observed in common carp. Moreover, they pave the way for automated 
detection of farmed fish, which will be most beneficial to detect escapees and 
improve restocking programs.

DOI: 10.3390/life12070957
PMCID: PMC9315565
PMID: 35888047

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interest.


268. Life (Basel). 2022 Jun 30;12(7):981. doi: 10.3390/life12070981.

The Supercapsular Percutaneously Assisted Total Hip (SuperPATH) Approach 
Revisited: Technique Improvements after the Perioperative Experience of 344 
Cases.

Flevas DA(1), Tsakotos GA(1)(2), Benakis LN(1), Sasalos GG(1), Tokis AV(1).

Author information:
(1)Arthroscopy and Orthopaedic Surgery Department, Metropolitan Hospital, Neo 
Faliro, 185 47 Athens, Greece.
(2)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, 157 72 Athens, Greece.

The SuperPATH approach is a direct superior portal-assisted approach for total 
hip arthroplasty (THA) that utilizes the interval between the gluteus minimus 
and the piriformis to access the hip capsule. Patients and Methods: SuperPATH 
arthroplasty was performed by a single surgeon between December of 2016 and 
December of 2021 in 344 cases. The technique described by Chow was performed in 
all cases. The average length of stay was 1.3 days, and all patients were 
discharged for home. All patients were mobilized on the day of the operation. 
Six cases presented complications: four intraoperative femur fractures and two 
peroneal nerve palsies. No infection and no hip dislocation were noticed in any 
case. Modifications: We recommend that the patient be placed as far from the 
surgeon as possible as well as the use of a sterilized standard linen pack to 
elevate the foot and internally rotate the hip. In addition, regarding 
instrumentation, we recommend the use of a 4.5 mm drill for the first guidance 
femur drilling and a standard corkscrew for femoral head removal. Finally, we 
propose a different reduction technique using a hook. The use of the SuperPATH 
approach allows for maximal tissue sparing through preservation of external 
rotators and minimizing stretching of the gluteus medius. There is no range of 
motion restrictions postoperatively and patients can achieve a high level of 
function with a very low dislocation risk and reduced inpatient stay. 
Furthermore, an incision extension is possible if needed in complex cases. For 
surgeons familiar with the standard posterolateral approach, the SuperPATH 
approach is a reliable and safe method with promising results for the patient. 
In order to improve the surgical effect and facilitate some steps in the 
procedure, we share our experience and recommend some modifications.

DOI: 10.3390/life12070981
PMCID: PMC9318286
PMID: 35888071

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


269. Life (Basel). 2022 Jul 14;12(7):1050. doi: 10.3390/life12071050.

Finding Emergent Gait Patterns May Reduce Progression of Knee Osteoarthritis in 
a Clinically Relevant Time Frame.

Gupta D(1), Donnelly CJ(2)(3), Reinbolt JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Mechanical, Aerospace and Biomedical Engineering, The University of 
Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996, USA.
(2)Rehabilitation Research Institute of Singapore, Nanyang Technological 
University, Singapore 308232, Singapore.
(3)School of Human Sciences (Health and Sport Sciences), The University of 
Western Australia, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia.

A high contact force between the medial femoral condyle and the tibial plateau 
is the primary cause of medial compartment knee osteoarthritis (OA). A high 
medial contact force (MCF) during gait has been shown to be correlated to both 
the knee adduction moment (KAM) and knee flexion/extension moment (KFM). In this 
study, we used OpenSim Moco to find gait kinematics that reduced the peaks of 
the KAM, without increasing the peaks of the KFM, which could potentially reduce 
the MCF and, hence, the progression of knee OA. We used gait data from four knee 
OA participants. Our simulations decreased both peaks of the KAM without 
increasing either peak of the KFM. We found that increasing the step width was 
the primary mechanism, followed by simulations of all participants to reduce the 
frontal plane lever arm of the ground reaction force vector about the knee, in 
turn reducing the KAM. Importantly, each participant simulation followed 
different patterns of kinematic changes to achieve this reduction, which 
highlighted the need for participant-specific gait modifications. Moreover, we 
were able to simulate emerging gait patterns within 15 min, enhancing the 
relevance and potential for the application of developed methods in clinical 
settings.

DOI: 10.3390/life12071050
PMCID: PMC9318542
PMID: 35888138

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


270. Life (Basel). 2022 Jul 19;12(7):1078. doi: 10.3390/life12071078.

Transarterial Treatment of Lung Cancer.

Hori A(1), Dejima I(2), Hori S(1), Oka S(1), Nakamura T(1), Ueda S(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Image Guided Therapy, Izumisano 598-0047, Japan.
(2)Department of Radiology, Wakayama Medical University, Wakayama 641-8509, 
Japan.

PURPOSE: The treatment efficacy of the transarterial approach to lung cancer is 
evaluated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 98 patients with advanced lung cancer or 
recurrent lung cancer after the standard therapies were enrolled 
retrospectively. The bronchial arteries and mediastinal branches from the 
subclavian artery were selected by a microcatheter. Immediately after the 
selective arterial infusion of anti-neoplastic agents, embolization with a 
spherical embolic material was carried out. Local tumor effects and overall 
survival were evaluated.
RESULT: The mean reduction rate was 17.9%, with 24.2% for partial remission and 
with 2.1% for progression disease. The rate of stable disease was 72.6%. The 
response rate was 25.3%, and the disease control rate was 97.9%. The median 
survival time (MST) was 11.4 months, the 1-year survival rate was 45.2%, and the 
2-year survival rate was 35.6%. Although it is insignificant, the MST for 51 
adenocarcinomas was higher than that of 29 squamous cell carcinomas (18.6 months 
and 9.4 months, respectively). The local extension of tumors related to a better 
prognosis, though it was not significant. Lymph node metastases and distant 
metastases were poor prognostic factors. No major complications nor 
treatment-related mortalities were found in this study.
CONCLUSION: The transarterial treatment for lung cancer should be considered as 
a treatment option when the other treatments were not indicated both in initial 
cases and in recurrent cases.

DOI: 10.3390/life12071078
PMCID: PMC9317801
PMID: 35888165

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


271. Life (Basel). 2022 Jul 20;12(7):1084. doi: 10.3390/life12071084.

Robust Gaussian and Nonlinear Hybrid Invariant Clustered Features Aided Approach 
for Speeded Brain Tumor Diagnosis.

Almalki YE(1), Ali MU(2), Ahmed W(3), Kallu KD(4), Zafar A(5), Alduraibi SK(6), 
Irfan M(7), Basha MAA(8), Alshamrani HA(9), Alduraibi AK(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Medical College, 
Najran University, Najran 61441, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Unmanned Vehicle Engineering, Sejong University, Seoul 05006, 
Korea.
(3)Secret Minds, Entrepreneurial Organization, Islamabad 44000, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Robotics and Intelligent Machine Engineering (RIME), School of 
Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering (SMME), National University of Sciences 
and Technology (NUST), H-12, Islamabad 44000, Pakistan.
(5)Department of Electrical Engineering, The Ibadat International University, 
Islamabad 54590, Pakistan.
(6)Department of Radiology, College of Medicine, Qassim University, Buraidah 
52571, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Electrical Engineering Department, College of Engineering, Najran University, 
Najran 61441, Saudi Arabia.
(8)Radiology Department, Faculty of Human Medicine, Zagazig University, Zagazig 
44631, Egypt.
(9)Radiological Sciences Department, College of Applied Medical Sciences, Najran 
University, Najran 61441, Saudi Arabia.

Brain tumors reduce life expectancy due to the lack of a cure. Moreover, their 
diagnosis involves complex and costly procedures such as magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) and lengthy, careful examination to determine their severity. 
However, the timely diagnosis of brain tumors in their early stages may save a 
patient's life. Therefore, this work utilizes MRI with a machine learning 
approach to diagnose brain tumor severity (glioma, meningioma, no tumor, and 
pituitary) in a timely manner. MRI Gaussian and nonlinear scale features are 
extracted due to their robustness over rotation, scaling, and noise issues, 
which are common in image processing features such as texture, local binary 
patterns, histograms of oriented gradient, etc. For the features, each MRI is 
broken down into multiple small 8 √ó 8-pixel MR images to capture small details. 
To counter memory issues, the strongest features based on variance are selected 
and segmented into 400 Gaussian and 400 nonlinear scale features, and these 
features are hybridized against each MRI. Finally, classical machine learning 
classifiers are utilized to check the performance of the proposed hybrid feature 
vector. An available online brain MRI image dataset is utilized to validate the 
proposed approach. The results show that the support vector machine-trained 
model has the highest classification accuracy of 95.33%, with a low 
computational time. The results are also compared with the recent literature, 
which shows that the proposed model can be helpful for clinicians/doctors for 
the early diagnosis of brain tumors.

DOI: 10.3390/life12071084
PMCID: PMC9315657
PMID: 35888172

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


272. Materials (Basel). 2022 Jul 21;15(14):5071. doi: 10.3390/ma15145071.

Horizontal Oxidation Diffusion Behavior of MEMS-Based Tungsten-Rhenium Thin Film 
Thermocouples.

Ruan Y(1), Xue M(2), Teng J(2), Wu Y(1), Shi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Precision Instruments, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, 
China.
(2)Department of Materials Physics and Chemistry, University of Science and 
Technology Beijing, Beijing 100083, China.

Tungsten-rhenium thin film thermocouples (TFTCs) are well suited for the surface 
temperature monitoring of hot components due to their small size, rapid response 
and low cost. In this study, a tungsten-rhenium TFTC with SiC protective film on 
all parts except the pads was fabricated by a microelectromechanical system 
(MEMS) process. During the low to medium temperature (-40 ¬∞C to 500 ¬∞C) 
repeatability test phase, the thermal voltage from the TFTC agreed well with 
that of the standard tungsten-rhenium thermocouple. However, during the high 
temperature test phase, the TFTC lost electronic response at around 620 ¬∞C. 
Failure analysis of the TFTC tested at 620 ¬∞C was performed by microscopy, 
scanning electron microscope (SEM), energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS), laser 
scanning confocal microscope (LSCM) and statistics. The results showed that the 
pads were oxidized without the protective layer, the number of oxidized 
protrusions distributed in this TFTC from the pad to the node decreases more and 
more slowly and the size of the oxidized protrusions also becomes smaller and 
smaller. This demonstrates the presence of horizontal oxidation diffusion in 
TFTCs, further illustrating the importance of pad protection and provides a 
direction for the subsequent structural optimization and the extension of the 
service life of TFTCs and other sensors.

DOI: 10.3390/ma15145071
PMCID: PMC9317371
PMID: 35888538

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study, in the collection, analyses or 
interpretation of data, in the writing of the manuscript or in the decision to 
publish the results.


273. Materials (Basel). 2022 Jul 21;15(14):5077. doi: 10.3390/ma15145077.

Life Prediction Method of Dissimilar Lightweight Materials Welded Joints with 
Precrack under Coupled Impact-Fatigue Loading.

Ni Z(1), Xiong T(1), Lei J(1), Wang L(1), Gao T(1), Yu J(2), Mi C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Hunan University of Technology, Zhuzhou 
412007, China.
(2)Department of Mechanical and Vehicle Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha 
410082, China.

This paper aims to explore the fatigue life estimation approach of welded joints 
with precrack under coupled impact and fatigue loading, and the base metal is 
dissimilar 5083H111 and 5754 aluminum alloy. Impact tests are first carried out 
on the dissimilar lightweight materials welded joint with precrack located in 
the middle of the specimen, and a stress and strain field is obtained to 
determine the fatigue damage model parameters by using finite element dynamic 
analysis to simulate the impact process. Based, on the S-N curve of welded 
joints, the predicted life expectancy is found to be inconsistent with the 
experimental results. According to the continuum damage mechanics, the lifetime 
assessment model is presented to calculate both impact and fatigue damage. The 
estimated results agree well with the experimental ones.

DOI: 10.3390/ma15145077
PMCID: PMC9324919
PMID: 35888543

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


274. Nanomaterials (Basel). 2022 Jul 7;12(14):2337. doi: 10.3390/nano12142337.

Inorganic Nanomaterials versus Polymer-Based Nanoparticles for Overcoming 
Neurodegeneration.

Martano S(1), De Matteis V(1), Cascione M(1), Rinaldi R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics and Physics "Ennio De Giorgi", University of 
Salento, Via Arnesano, 73100 Lecce, Italy.

Neurodegenerative disorders (NDs) affect a great number of people worldwide and 
also have a significant socio-economic impact on the aging population. In this 
context, nanomedicine applied to neurological disorders provides several 
biotechnological strategies and nanoformulations that improve life expectancy 
and the quality of life of patients affected by brain disorders. However, 
available treatments are limited by the presence of the blood-brain barrier 
(BBB) and the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier (B-CSFB). In this regard, 
nanotechnological approaches could overcome these obstacles by updating various 
aspects (e.g., enhanced drug-delivery efficiency and bioavailability, BBB 
permeation and targeting the brain parenchyma, minimizing side effects). The aim 
of this review is to carefully explore the key elements of different 
neurological disorders and summarize the available nanomaterials applied for 
neurodegeneration therapy looking at several types of nanocarriers. Moreover, 
nutraceutical-loaded nanoparticles (NPs) and synthesized NPs using green 
approaches are also discussed underling the need to adopt eco-friendly 
procedures with a low environmental impact. The proven antioxidant properties 
related to several natural products provide an interesting starting point for 
developing efficient and green nanotools useful for neuroprotection.

DOI: 10.3390/nano12142337
PMCID: PMC9317100
PMID: 35889562

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


275. Nutrients. 2022 Jul 17;14(14):2924. doi: 10.3390/nu14142924.

Relationship between Dietary Patterns and Subjectively Measured Physical 
Activity in Japanese Individuals 85 Years and Older: A Cross-Sectional Study.

Yu T(1), Oguma Y(1)(2), Asakura K(3), Takayama M(4), Abe Y(5), Arai Y(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Health Management, Keio University, 4411 Endo, Fujisawa 
City 252-0883, Japan.
(2)Sports Medicine Research Center, Keio University, 4-1-1 Hiyoshi, Kohoku-ku, 
Yokohama City 223-8251, Japan.
(3)Department of Environmental and Occupational Health, School of Medicine, Toho 
University, 5-21-16 Omorinishi, Ota-ku, Tokyo 143-8540, Japan.
(4)Center for Preventive Medicine, Keio University, 35 Shinanomachi, 
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.
(5)Center for Supercentenarian Medical Research, Keio University, 35 
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.
(6)Faculty of Nursing and Medical Care, Keio University, 4411 Endo, Fujisawa 
City 252-0883, Japan.

High-quality diets and regular physical activity (PA) are considered healthy 
behaviors (HBs). HBs are associated with many health outcomes and are expected 
to improve quality of life. Although implementing HBs is important, the 
relationship between dietary patterns (DPs) and PA has not been well 
investigated, especially among those aged ‚â• 85. This study used data from the 
Tokyo Oldest Old survey on Total Health study to examine the relationship 
between DPs and PA in a cross-sectional study. The dietary survey used the brief 
self-administered diet history questionnaire to estimate the intake of 58 foods. 
After energy adjustment, principal component analysis was performed to identify 
major DPs. A validated questionnaire was used to evaluate PA, and linear 
regression analysis was used to investigate the association between DPs and PA, 
considering confounders. A total of 519 participants were included. Three major 
DPs ('Various plant foods', 'Fish and mushrooms', 'Cooked rice and miso soup') 
were identified. 'Various plant foods' was similar to DPs previously named 
'Healthy' or 'Prudent', and its trend was positively associated with higher PA. 
This study observed the implementation of HBs even among those aged ‚â• 85, 
suggesting that a trend toward a healthier diet is associated with higher PA.

DOI: 10.3390/nu14142924
PMCID: PMC9323235
PMID: 35889881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


276. Nutrients. 2022 Jul 20;14(14):2977. doi: 10.3390/nu14142977.

Systematic Review on the Potential Effect of Berry Intake in the Cognitive 
Functions of Healthy People.

De Amicis R(1)(2), Mambrini SP(1)(3), Pellizzari M(1), Foppiani A(1), Bertoli 
S(1)(2), Battezzati A(1), Leone A(1).

Author information:
(1)International Center for the Assessment of Nutritional Status (ICANS), 
Department of Food, Environmental and Nutritional Sciences (DeFENS), University 
of Milan, 20133 Milan, Italy.
(2)Laboratory of Nutrition and Obesity Research, Department of Endocrine and 
Metabolic Diseases, IRCCS, Istituto Auxologico Italiano, 20145 Milan, Italy.
(3)Laboratory of Metabolic Research, S. Giuseppe Hospital, IRCCS, Istituto 
Auxologico Italiano, 28824 Piancavallo, Italy.

The increase in life expectancy poses health challenges, such as increasing the 
impairment of cognitive functions. Berries show a neuroprotective effect thanks 
to flavonoids, able to reduce neuroinflammatory and to increase neuronal 
connections. The aim of this systematic review is to explore the impact of 
berries supplementation on cognitive function in healthy adults and the elderly. 
Twelve studies were included for a total of 399 participants, aged 18-81 years 
(mean age: 41.8 ¬± 4.7 years). Six studies involved young adults (23.9 ¬± 3.7 
years), and four studies involved the elderly (60.6 ¬± 6.4 years). Most studies 
investigated effects of a single berry product, but one used a mixture of 4 
berries. Non-significant differences were detected across cognition domains and 
methodologies, but significant and positive effects were found for all cognitive 
domains (attention and concentration, executive functioning, memory, motor 
skills and construction, and processing speed), and in most cases they were 
present in more than one study and detected using different methodologies. 
Although some limitations should be taken into account to explain these results, 
the positive findings across studies and methodologies elicit further studies on 
this topic, to endorse the consumption of berries in healthy populations to 
prevent cognitive decline.

DOI: 10.3390/nu14142977
PMCID: PMC9321916
PMID: 35889934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


277. Pathogens. 2022 Jul 21;11(7):819. doi: 10.3390/pathogens11070819.

The Current Knowledge on Clostridioides difficile Infection in Patients with 
Inflammatory Bowel Diseases.

Boeriu A(1)(2), Roman A(1)(2), Fofiu C(1), Dobru D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Department, University of Medicine Pharmacy, Sciences, and 
Technology "George Emil Palade" Targu Mures, 540142 Targu Mures, Romania.
(2)Gastroenterology Department, Mures County Clinical Hospital, 540103 Targu 
Mures, Romania.

Clostridioides difficile (C. difficile) represents a major health burden with 
substantial economic and clinical impact. Patients with inflammatory bowel 
diseases (IBD) were identified as a risk category for Clostridioides difficile 
infection (CDI). In addition to traditional risk factors for C. difficile 
acquisition, IBD-specific risk factors such as immunosuppression, severity and 
extension of the inflammatory disease were identified. C. difficile virulence 
factors, represented by both toxins A and B, induce the damage of the intestinal 
mucosa and vascular changes, and promote the inflammatory host response. Given 
the potential life-threatening complications, early diagnostic and therapeutic 
interventions are required. The screening for CDI is recommended in IBD 
exacerbations, and the diagnostic algorithm consists of clinical evaluation, 
enzyme immunoassays (EIAs) or nucleic acid amplification tests (NAATs). An 
increased length of hospitalization, increased colectomy rate and mortality are 
the consequences of concurrent CDI in IBD patients. Selection of CD strains of 
higher virulence, antibiotic resistance, and the increasing rate of recurrent 
infections make the management of CDI in IBD more challenging. An individualized 
therapeutic approach is recommended to control CDI as well as IBD flare. Novel 
therapeutic strategies have been developed in recent years in order to manage 
severe, refractory or recurrent CDI. In this article, we aim to review the 
current evidence in the field of CDI in patients with underlying IBD, pointing 
to pathogenic mechanisms, risk factors for infection, diagnostic steps, clinical 
impact and outcomes, and specific management.

DOI: 10.3390/pathogens11070819
PMCID: PMC9323231
PMID: 35890064

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


278. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2022 Jul 10;15(7):847. doi: 10.3390/ph15070847.

Chalcones as Potential Ligands for the Treatment of Parkinson's Disease.

Kr√≥licka E(1), Kieƒá-Kononowicz K(1), ≈Åa≈ºewska D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Technology and Biotechnology of Drugs, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Jagiellonian University Medical College, Medyczna 9, 30-688 Krak√≥w, Poland.

Along with the increase in life expectancy, a significant increase of people 
suffering from neurodegenerative diseases (ND) has been noticed. The second most 
common ND, after Alzheimer's disease, is Parkinson's disease (PD), which 
manifests itself with a number of motor and non-motor symptoms that hinder the 
patient's life. Current therapies can only alleviate those symptoms and slow 
down the progression of the disease, but not effectively cure it. So now, in 
addition to understanding the mechanism and causes of PD, it is also important 
to find a powerful way of treatment. It has been proved that in the etiology and 
course of PD, the essential roles are played by dopamine (DA) (an important 
neurotransmitter), enzymes regulating its level (e.g., COMT, MAO), and oxidative 
stress leading to neuroinflammation. Chalcones, due to their "simple" structure 
and valuable biological properties are considered as promising candidates for 
treatment of ND, also including PD. Here, we provide a comprehensive review of 
chalcones and related structures as potential new therapeutics for cure and 
prevention of PD. For this purpose, three databases (Pubmed, Scopus and Web of 
Science) were searched to collect articles published during the last 5 years 
(January 2018-February 2022). Chalcones have been described as promising enzyme 
inhibitors (MAO B, COMT, AChE), Œ±-synuclein imaging probes, showing 
anti-neuroinflammatory activity (inhibition of iNOS or activation of Nrf2 
signaling), as well as antagonists of adenosine A1 and/or A2A receptors. This 
review focused on the structure-activity relationships of these compounds to 
determine how a particular substituent or its position in the chalcone ring(s) 
(ring A and/or B) affects biological activity.

DOI: 10.3390/ph15070847
PMCID: PMC9317344
PMID: 35890146

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


279. Polymers (Basel). 2022 Jul 21;14(14):2960. doi: 10.3390/polym14142960.

New Opportunities for Organic Semiconducting Polymers in Biomedical 
Applications.

Kim K(1), Yoo H(2), Lee EK(3).

Author information:
(1)Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology (SAIT), Suwon 16678, Korea.
(2)Department of Electronic Engineering, Gachon University, 1342 Seongnam-daero, 
Seongnam 13120, Korea.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, Pukyong National University, Busan 48513, 
Korea.

The life expectancy of humans has been significantly elevated due to 
advancements in medical knowledge and skills over the past few decades. Although 
a lot of knowledge and skills are disseminated to the general public, electronic 
devices that quantitatively diagnose one's own body condition still require 
specialized semiconductor devices which are huge and not portable. In this 
regard, semiconductor materials that are lightweight and have low power 
consumption and high performance should be developed with low cost for mass 
production. Organic semiconductors are one of the promising materials in 
biomedical applications due to their functionalities, solution-processability 
and excellent mechanical properties in terms of flexibility. In this review, we 
discuss organic semiconductor materials that are widely utilized in biomedical 
devices. Some advantageous and unique properties of organic semiconductors 
compared to inorganic semiconductors are reviewed. By critically assessing the 
fabrication process and device structures in organic-based biomedical devices, 
the potential merits and future aspects of the organic biomedical devices are 
pinpointed compared to inorganic devices.

DOI: 10.3390/polym14142960
PMCID: PMC9318588
PMID: 35890734

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


280. Vaccines (Basel). 2022 Jun 30;10(7):1054. doi: 10.3390/vaccines10071054.

Factors Influencing Men's Attitudes toward HPV Vaccination in Males Included in 
the Chinese National Immunization Program.

Tao Y(1), Shao H(2), Zhang T(3), Pu J(1), Tang C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Phase I Clinical Trial Ward, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400016, China.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400016, China.
(3)The First Clinical College, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400016, 
China.

BACKGROUND: Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is the most common sexually 
transmitted disease, and it is associated with anogenital warts and 
oropharyngeal and anogenital cancers. Among female malignant tumors in China, 
the incidence of cervical cancer ranks second, with only breast cancer being 
more prevalent. HPV infection and related diseases affects both women and men. 
HPV vaccination is an optimal prevention strategy in preventing HPV infection 
and related diseases. The inclusion of the HPV vaccine in the national 
immunization program is an effective way to increase immunization coverage, 
reduce the burden of HPV related diseases, and increase national life 
expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to explore the factors influencing the attitudes of 
Chinese men toward the inclusion of the HPV vaccine in males included in the 
national immunization program, thus providing reference for launching the 
national immunization program policy.
METHODS: We invited men aged 20 to 45 to participate in an online survey. The 
participants were requested to complete a questionnaire, including 
sociodemographic characteristics, sexual behavior characteristics, knowledge of 
HPV and the HPV vaccine, and attitudes toward the HPV vaccine. A logistic 
regression model was constructed to analyze the influencing factors of 
attitudes.
RESULTS: A total of 660 males in China participated in this survey, and 80.45% 
supported the inclusion of HPV vaccines in national immunization programs. 
Participants earning CNY 100,000-200,000 (dds ratio (OR): 0.63, 95% confidence 
interval (CI): 0.39-1.00) or ‚â•200,000 (OR: 0.34, 95% CI: 0.17-0.68) were more 
likely to disapprove this strategy. Compared with people without a history of 
HPV infection, those with a history of HPV infection (OR: 1.84, 95% CI: 
1.17-2.90) were more likely to approve. Men who had better knowledge of HPV were 
more likely to approve than men with less knowledge about HPV (OR: 1.44, 95% CI: 
1.17-1.79). Compared with participants who did not know when the HPV vaccine 
should be given, those who knew that the ideal time of vaccination is before an 
individual becomes sexually active (OR: 1.75, 95% CI: 1.04-2.95) were more 
likely to approve.
CONCLUSION: One in five men did not support the inclusion of HPV vaccines in 
national immunization programs, and they are likely to be from higher 
socioeconomic background and have poor knowledge of HPV. In order to implement 
comprehensive immunity, targeted actions need to be taken at national and public 
levels. In addition, when implementing measures, more attention needs to be paid 
to lower income men, men without a history of HPV infection and with poor 
knowledge of HPV, as well as young men.

DOI: 10.3390/vaccines10071054
PMCID: PMC9319647
PMID: 35891217

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


281. Vaccines (Basel). 2022 Jul 19;10(7):1145. doi: 10.3390/vaccines10071145.

Adults with Trisomy 21 Have Differential Antibody Responses to Influenza A.

James S(1), Haight RC(2), Hanna C(2), Furton L(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Regis University, Denver, CO 80221, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacotherapy, College of Pharmacy, University of North Texas 
Health Science Center, Fort Worth, TX 76107, USA.
(3)School of Public Health, Boston University, Boston, MA 02118, USA.

Down syndrome is caused by an extra copy of chromosome 21. In the past two 
decades, the life expectancy of individuals with Down syndrome has significantly 
increased from early 20s to early 60s, creating a population of individuals of 
which little is known about how well they are protected against infectious 
disease. The goal of this work is to better understand if adults with Down 
syndrome are well protected against influenza following vaccination. We obtained 
plasma samples from 18 adults (average age = 31yo) with Down syndrome and 17 
age/gender-matched disomic individuals, all vaccinated against influenza. 
Antibody concentration to influenza A was measured using ELISA and antibody 
titers were measured using a hemagglutinin inhibition assay. Statistical 
analysis was performed using Stata Statistical Software. Adults with Down 
syndrome had a significantly increased concentration of antibodies to a mixture 
of influenza A viral proteins; however, they had a significantly decreased titer 
to the Influenza A/Hong Kong compared to disomic controls. These findings 
suggest that more vigorous studies of B- and T-cell function in adults with Down 
syndrome with respect to influenza vaccination are warranted, and that this 
population may benefit from a high-dose influenza vaccine.

DOI: 10.3390/vaccines10071145
PMCID: PMC9324516
PMID: 35891309

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


282. Viruses. 2022 Jul 5;14(7):1475. doi: 10.3390/v14071475.

Development of a Novel RT-qPCR Detecting Method of Covert Mortality Nodavirus 
(CMNV) for the National Proficiency Test in Molecular Detection.

Wang W(1)(2), Liu S(2), Yao L(1)(2), Xia J(1)(2), Xu T(2), Wang C(2), Li C(2), 
Zhang Q(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Fisheries and Life Science, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai 
201306, China.
(2)Yellow Sea Fisheries Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Fishery Sciences, 
Function Laboratory for Marine Fisheries Science and Food Production Processes, 
Qingdao National Laboratory for Marine Science and Technology, Key Laboratory of 
Maricultural Organism Disease Control, Ministry of Agriculture, Qingdao Key 
Laboratory of Mariculture Epidemiology and Biosecurity, Qingdao 266071, China.

Covert mortality nodavirus (CMNV), the pathogen of viral covert mortality 
disease (VCMD), has caused serious economic losses of shrimp aquaculture in 
Southeast Asian countries and China in the past decade. In view of that the 
rapid and accurate laboratory detection of CMNV plays a major role in the 
effective control of the spread of VCMD. The national proficiency test (NPT) for 
the detection of covert mortality nodavirus (CMNV) started in China from 2021. 
In this study, a novel TaqMan real-time reverse transcription quantitative PCR 
(RT-qPCR) detection method for CMNV with higher sensitivity than previous 
reports was established based on specific primers and probe designing from the 
conserved regions of the CMNV coat protein gene for using molecular detection of 
CMNV in NPT. The optimized RT-qPCR reaction program was determined as reverse 
transcription at 54.9 ¬∞C for 15 min and denaturation at 95 ¬∞C for 1 min, 
followed by 40 cycles including denaturation at 95 ¬∞C for 10 s, and annealing 
and extension at 54.9 ¬∞C for 25 s. The detection limit of the newly developed 
RT-qPCR method was determined to be as low as 2.15 copies of CMNV plasmids 
template per reaction, with the correlation coefficient (R2) at above 0.99. The 
new method showed no cross reaction with the six common aquatic animal pathogens 
and could be finished in one hour, which represents a rapid detection method 
that can save 50% detection time versus the previously reported assay. The CMNV 
TaqMan probe based RT-qPCR method developed in present study supplies a novel 
sensitive and specific tool for both the rapid diagnosing and quantitating of 
CMNV in NPT activities and in the farmed crustaceans, and will help 
practitioners in the aquaculture industry to prevent and control VCMD 
effectively.

DOI: 10.3390/v14071475
PMCID: PMC9319686
PMID: 35891455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest.


283. World Allergy Organ J. 2022 Jul 14;15(7):100665. doi: 
10.1016/j.waojou.2022.100665. eCollection 2022 Jul.

Anaphylaxis in older adult patients: a 10-year retrospective experience.

Yƒ±ldƒ±z E(1), Arslan ≈û(1), √á√∂lkesen F(1), Evcen R(1), Sadi Aykan F(1), Kƒ±lƒ±n√ß 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Immunology and Allergy, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Meram Faculty of Medicine, Necmettin Erbakan University, Konya, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: Despite the worldwide increase in life expectancy and the elderly 
population, very little is known about the characteristics of anaphylaxis in 
older adults.
METHODS: A retrospective scan was made of the files of patients who presented at 
the Allergy Unit of our clinic between October 2011 and October 2021. The study 
included 971 patients aged ‚â•18 years who met the criteria for diagnosis of 
anaphylaxis. The patients were separated into 2 groups of adults (18-64 years) 
and older adults (‚â•65 years).
RESULTS: The adult group included 887 (91.3%) patients and the older adult 
group, 84 (8.7%) patients. Comorbid diseases were seen more frequently in the 
older adults than in the adult group (p¬†<¬†0.001). Drugs were seen to be the most 
common trigger of anaphylaxis in both groups, and this was more common in the 
older adult group (p¬†=¬†0.039). Food was a more common trigger of anaphylaxis in 
the adult group than in the older adult group (p¬†=¬†0.017). In both groups, the 
skin was the organ most affected, and was less affected in the older adults than 
in the adults (p¬†=¬†0.020). Cardiovascular symptoms were seen significantly more 
and respiratory symptoms significantly less in the older adult group (p¬†<¬†0.001, 
p¬†=¬†0.002, respectively). Admission to the hospital and the intensive care unit 
was more frequent in the older adult group and rates of adrenalin administration 
were higher compared to the adult group (p¬†<¬†0.001 for all).
CONCLUSION: Anaphylaxis in the older adults is generally caused by drugs. Older 
adults were found to have more cardiovascular symptoms and more frequent 
adrenalin injections, hospitalizations and intensive care unit admissions.

¬© 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.waojou.2022.100665
PMCID: PMC9293944
PMID: 35891674


284. Cureus. 2022 Jun 22;14(6):e26190. doi: 10.7759/cureus.26190. eCollection
2022  Jun.

Role of Supplemental Teriparatide Therapy to Augment Functional and Radiological 
Outcomes in Osteoporotic Intertrochanteric Hip Fractures in the Elderly 
Population.

Mishra S(1), Satapathy D(1), Samal S(1), Zion N(1), Lodh U(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Institute of Medical Sciences & SUM 
Hospital, Bhubaneswar, IND.

With improved life expectancy and ever-increasing geriatric population with 
concomitant osteoporosis, there is increase in osteoporotic intertrochanteric 
hip fractures. Even the best surgical advances fail to provide satisfactory and 
early results. As a result, researchers' focus has lately shifted to developing 
a more integrated approach that combines the pharmacotherapeutic capabilities of 
teriparatide, a recombinant version of human parathyroid hormone (1-34), a new 
anabolic drug that enhances bone mass and strength by promoting osteoblastic 
activity and hastens fracture union in both human and animals. We attempted to 
evaluate the therapeutic efficiency of teriparatide therapy on outcomes of 
surgically managed Intertrochanteric hip fractures in osteoporotic patients. A 
total of 31 patients with established osteoporosis and Intertrochanteric 
fractures were selected and divided into two groups, managed surgically with 
proximal femur nailing, and then prospectively compared with one group receiving 
teriparatide therapy in addition to standard treatment after taking necessary 
consent and allocation into two groups based on the preference of patients to 
take additional teriparatide or not after understanding the benefits and risks 
involved. We aimed to assess the functional and radiological effects of 
teriparatide on bone mineral density, the time taken for fracture union, and 
other fracture-related postoperative complications such as weight bearing and 
residual bone pain. All patients were followed up at 6, 12, and 24 weeks. Time 
to fracture union was significantly shortened, with considerable improvement in 
bone density and functional outcome in the teriparatide group. Varus collapse, 
the rate of migration of the helical blade, and shortening of the femoral neck 
were also significantly less in the study group. From the assembled data, we can 
safely assume that with early union rates with better functional improvement 
with additional advantage of increased bone mass, we favor supplemental 
teriparatide therapy in the management of osteoporotic patients with femoral 
intertrochanteric fractures to augment healing. Further studies with a larger 
sample size are required to support our observation.

Copyright ¬© 2022, Mishra et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.26190
PMCID: PMC9305672
PMID: 35891832

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


285. Int J Nurs Sci. 2022 Jun 7;9(3):389-396. doi: 10.1016/j.ijnss.2022.06.001. 
eCollection 2022 Jul.

The perceptions on good death of the older adults in the semi-urban community: A 
qualitative study.

Tipwong A(1), Ruamsook T(1), Hongkittiyanon T(2), Kgowsiri K(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing and Health, Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Bangkok, 
Thailand.
(2)Faculty of Nursing, Rambhai Barni Rajabhat University, Chanthaburi, Thailand.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to explore the perceptions of good death of the 
older adults living in Bang Nang Li Sub-District, Amphawa District, Samut 
Songkhram Province, Thailand.
METHOD: The data of the study was collected using in-depth interviews between 
October 2019 to January 2020. The data collected a total of 14 older adults who 
had firsthand experience in caring for terminally ill patients were recruited 
for the study. Content analysis was employed to analyze qualitative data.
RESULTS: The results of this study revealed the perceptions of good death which 
were categorized into three main themes and eight sub-themes, including 1) death 
without suffering (not suffering from life support devices, dying with care); 2) 
natural death (death with the end of life expectancy, death with illness or 
ailments); and 3) death without the worries (preparation for death, spiritual 
and belief practice toward preparation for death, family and property management 
before death, death among family members and at their familiar place).
CONCLUSION: The findings of this research provided the insight to clarify the 
understanding of the perceptions on a good death of older adults. The findings 
can be used to support the practice and management of nursing education and 
health care providers who have to be involved in palliative care for terminally 
ill older adults.

¬© 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijnss.2022.06.001
PMCID: PMC9305014
PMID: 35891908

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared no conflict of 
interest.


286. Brain Sci. 2022 Jul 26;12(8):981. doi: 10.3390/brainsci12080981.

A Validation Study for SHE Score for Acute Subdural Hematoma in the Elderly.

Vychopen M(1), Hamed M(1), Bahna M(1), Racz A(2), Ilic I(1), Salemdawod A(1), 
Schneider M(1), Lehmann F(3), Eichhorn L(3), Bode C(3), Jacobs AH(4), Behning 
C(5), Schuss P(1), G√ºresir E(1), Vatter H(1), Borger V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital Bonn, 53127 Bonn, Germany.
(2)Department of Epileptology, University Hospital Bonn, 53127 Bonn, Germany.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine, University Hospital 
Bonn, 53127 Bonn, Germany.
(4)Department of Geriatric Medicine and Neurology, Johanniter Hospital Bonn, 
53113 Bonn, Germany.
(5)Department of Medical Biometry, Informatics and Epidemiology, University 
Hospital Bonn, 53127 Bonn, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was the verification of the Subdural Hematoma 
in the Elderly (SHE) score proposed by Alford et al. as a mortality predictor in 
patients older than 65 years with nontraumatic/minor trauma acute subdural 
hematoma (aSDH). Additionally, we evaluated further predictors associated with 
poor outcome.
METHODS: Patients were scored according to age (1 point is given if patients 
were older than 80 years), GCS by admission (1 point for GCS 5-12, 2 points for 
GCS 3-4), and SDH volume (1 point for volume 50 mL). The sum of points 
determines the SHE score. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was 
performed to identify additional independent risk factors associated with 30-day 
mortality.
RESULTS: We evaluated 131 patients with aSDH who were treated at our institution 
between 2008 and 2020. We observed the same 30-day mortality rates published by 
Alford et al.: SHE 0: 4.3% vs. 3.2%, p = 1.0; SHE 1: 12.2% vs. 13.1%, p = 1.0; 
SHE 2: 36.6% vs. 32.7%, p = 0.8; SHE 3: 97.1% vs. 95.7%, p = 1.0 and SHE 4: 100% 
vs. 100%, p = 1.0. Additionally, 18 patients who developed status epilepticus 
(SE) had a mortality of 100 percent regardless of the SHE score. The 
distribution of SE among the groups was: 1 for SHE 1, 6 for SHE 2, 9 for SHE 3, 
and 2 for SHE 4. The logistic regression showed the surgical evacuation to be 
the only significant risk factor for developing the seizure. All patients who 
developed SE underwent surgery (p = 0.0065). Furthermore, SHE 3 and 4 showed no 
difference regarding the outcome between surgical and conservative treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: SHE score is a reliable mortality predictor for minor trauma acute 
subdural hematoma in elderly patients. In addition, we identified status 
epilepticus as a strong life-expectancy-limiting factor in patients undergoing 
surgical evacuation.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci12080981
PMCID: PMC9330492
PMID: 35892422

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


287. Biomedicines. 2022 Jul 25;10(8):1786. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines10081786.

Long-Term Persistence of Mitochondrial DNA Instability in HIV-Exposed Uninfected 
Children during and after Exposure to Antiretroviral Drugs and HIV.

Desquiret-Dumas V(1)(2), D'Ottavi M(3), Monnin A(3), Gouden√®ge D(1)(2), M√©da 
N(4), Vizeneux A(3), Kankasa C(5), Tylleskar T(6), Bris C(1)(2), Procaccio 
V(1)(2), Nagot N(3), Van de Perre P(3), Reynier P(1)(2), Mol√®s JP(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Genetics, University Hospital of Angers, 
F-49000 Angers, France.
(2)UMR MITOVASC, CNRS 6015, INSERM U1083, University of Angers, F-49000 Angers, 
France.
(3)Pathogenesis and Control of Chronic and Emerging Infections, INSERM, 
Etablissement Fran√ßais du Sang, University of Montpellier, University of 
Antilles, F-34394 Montpellier, France.
(4)Centre MURAZ, Bobo-Dioulasso 01 B.P. 390, Burkina Faso.
(5)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, University Teaching Hospital, 
Lusaka P.O. Box 50001, Zambia.
(6)Centre for International Health, University of Bergen, N-5020 Bergen, Norway.

HIV-exposed uninfected (HEU) children show impaired health outcomes during 
childhood. A high rate of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) instability was reported in 
the blood of HEU at birth. We aimed to explore the relationship between these 
health outcomes and mtDNA deletions over time in a case series of 24 HEU 
children. MtDNA instability was assessed by deep sequencing and analyzed by 
eKLIPse-v2 algorithm at three time points, namely birth, 1 year, and 6 years of 
age. Association between mtDNA deletion and health outcomes, including growth, 
clinical, and neurodevelopmental parameters, were explored using univariate 
statistical analyses and after stratification with relevant variables. HEU 
children were selected with an equal male:female ratio. An elevated number of 
mtDNA deletions and duplications events was observed at 7 days' post-partum. 
Median heteroplasmy increased at one year of life and then returned to baseline 
by six years of age. The mtDNA instability was acquired and was not transmitted 
by the mother. No risk factors were significantly associated with mtDNA 
instability. In this small case series, we did not detect any association 
between any health outcome at 6 years and mtDNA instability measures. A 
significant effect modification of the association between the duration of 
maternal prophylaxis and child growth was observed after stratification with 
heteroplasmy rate. Genomic instability persists over time among HEU children 
but, despite its extension, stays subclinical at six years.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines10081786
PMCID: PMC9331317
PMID: 35892686

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


288. J Fungi (Basel). 2022 Jul 26;8(8):779. doi: 10.3390/jof8080779.

RNA-Seq Provides Insights into the Mechanisms Underlying Ilyonectria robusta 
Responding to Secondary Metabolites of Bacillus methylotrophicus NJ13.

Li X(1), Li M(2), Liu X(2), Jiang Y(2), Zhao D(3), Gao J(2), Wang Z(4), Jiang 
Y(1), Chen C(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun 130118, 
China.
(2)College of Plant Protection, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun 130118, 
China.
(3)Jilin Provincial Agro-Tech Extension Center, Changchun 130031, China.
(4)College of Agronomy, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun 130118, China.

(1) Background: Ilyonectria robusta can cause ginseng to suffer from rusty root 
rot. Secondary metabolites (SMs) produced by Bacillus methylotrophicus NJ13 can 
inhibit the mycelial growth of I. robusta. However, the molecular mechanism of 
the inhibition and response remains unclear. (2) Methods: Through an in vitro 
trial, the effect of B. methylotrophicus NJ13‚Äôs SMs on the hyphae and conidia of 
I. robusta was determined. The change in the physiological function of I. 
robusta was evaluated in response to NJ13‚Äôs SMs by measuring the electrical 
conductivity, malondialdehyde (MDA) content, and glucose content. The molecular 
interaction mechanism of I. robusta‚Äôs response to NJ13‚Äôs SMs was analyzed by 
using transcriptome sequencing. (3) Results: NJ13‚Äôs SMs exhibited antifungal 
activity against I. robusta: namely, the hyphae swelled and branched abnormally, 
and their inclusions leaked out due to changes in the cell membrane permeability 
and the peroxidation level; the EC50 value was 1.21% (v/v). In transcripts at 4 
dpi and 7 dpi, the number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) (|log2(fold 
change)| > 1, p adj ‚â§ 0.05) was 1960 and 354, respectively. NJ13‚Äôs SMs affected 
the glucose metabolism pathway, and the sugar-transporter-related genes were 
downregulated, which are utilized by I. robusta for energy production. The cell 
wall structure of I. robusta was disrupted, and chitin-synthase-related genes 
were downregulated. (4) Conclusions: A new dataset of functional responses of 
the ginseng pathogenic fungus I. robusta was obtained. The results will benefit 
the development of targeted biological fungicides for I. robusta and the study 
of the molecular mechanisms of interaction between biocontrol bacteria and 
phytopathogenic fungi.

DOI: 10.3390/jof8080779
PMCID: PMC9332032
PMID: 35893148

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


289. Metabolites. 2022 Jul 24;12(8):677. doi: 10.3390/metabo12080677.

Metabolomic Analysis of Severe Osteoarthritis in a Spanish Population of Women 
Compared to Healthy and Osteoporotic Subjects.

Pertusa C(1), Mifsut D(1)(2), Morales JM(1)(3), Tar√≠n JJ(4), Cano A(5), Monle√≥n 
D(1)(3)(6), Garc√≠a-P√©rez M√Å(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Research Unit, INCLIVA Health Research Institute, 46010 Valencia, Spain.
(2)Orthopedic Surgery and Traumatology, Clinic Hospital, INCLIVA Institute of 
Health Research, 46010 Valencia, Spain.
(3)Department of Pathology, University of Valencia, 46010 Valencia, Spain.
(4)Department of Cellular Biology, Functional Biology and Physical Anthropology, 
University of Valencia, 46100 Burjassot, Spain.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Valencia, 
46010 Valencia, Spain.
