© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-059332
PMCID: PMC9297215
PMID: 35851004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


168. CMAJ Open. 2022 Jul 19;10(3):E666-E674. doi: 10.9778/cmajo.20220012. Print
2022  Jul-Sep.

The burden of cancer among people living with HIV in Ontario, Canada, 1997-2020: 
a retrospective population-based cohort study using administrative health data.

Nicolau IA(1), Antoniou T(1), Brooks JD(1), Moineddin R(1), Cooper C(1), 
Cotterchio M(1), Gillis JL(1), Kendall CE(1), Kroch AE(1), Lindsay JD(1), Price 
C(1), Salters K(1), Smieja M(1), Burchell AN(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology Toronto (Nicolau, Brooks, Cotterchio, Gillis, 
Burchell, Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto; ICES 
Central (Antoniou, Moineddin, Kendall, Burchell); Unity Health Toronto 
(Antoniou, Lindsay, Burchell), St Michael's Hospital; Department of Family and 
Community Medicine (Moineddin, Burchell), University of Toronto, Toronto, Ont.; 
Ottawa Hospital Research Institute (Cooper), Ottawa, Ont.; Ontario Health 
(Cancer Care Ontario) (Cotterchio), Toronto, Ont.; Department of Medicine 
(Gillis), School of Population and Public Health, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC; Bruyère Research Institute (Kendall); ICES uOttawa 
(Kendall); Department of Family Medicine (Kendall), University of Ottawa; 
Institut du Savoir Montfort (Kendall); Clinical Epidemiology Program (Kendall), 
Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, Ont.; Ontario HIV Treatment Network 
(Kroch), Toronto, Ont.; CIHR Canadian HIV Trials Network - Chronic Pain and HIV 
Working Group (Price); British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS 
(Salters), Vancouver, BC; Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine 
(Smieja), McMaster University (Smieja), Hamilton, Ont.
(2)Division of Epidemiology Toronto (Nicolau, Brooks, Cotterchio, Gillis, 
Burchell, Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto; ICES 
Central (Antoniou, Moineddin, Kendall, Burchell); Unity Health Toronto 
(Antoniou, Lindsay, Burchell), St Michael's Hospital; Department of Family and 
Community Medicine (Moineddin, Burchell), University of Toronto, Toronto, Ont.; 
Ottawa Hospital Research Institute (Cooper), Ottawa, Ont.; Ontario Health 
(Cancer Care Ontario) (Cotterchio), Toronto, Ont.; Department of Medicine 
(Gillis), School of Population and Public Health, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC; Bruyère Research Institute (Kendall); ICES uOttawa 
(Kendall); Department of Family Medicine (Kendall), University of Ottawa; 
Institut du Savoir Montfort (Kendall); Clinical Epidemiology Program (Kendall), 
Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, Ont.; Ontario HIV Treatment Network 
(Kroch), Toronto, Ont.; CIHR Canadian HIV Trials Network - Chronic Pain and HIV 
Working Group (Price); British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS 
(Salters), Vancouver, BC; Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine 
(Smieja), McMaster University (Smieja), Hamilton, Ont. 
ann.burchell@unityhealth.to.

BACKGROUND: With combination antiretroviral therapy (ART) and increased 
longevity, cancer is a leading cause of morbidity among people with HIV. We 
characterized trends in cancer burden among people with HIV in Ontario, Canada, 
between 1997 and 2020.
METHODS: We conducted a population-based, retrospective cohort study of adults 
with HIV using linked administrative health databases from Jan. 1, 1997, to Nov. 
1, 2020. We grouped cancers as infection-related AIDS-defining cancers (ADCs), 
infection-related non-ADCs (NADCs) and infection-unrelated cancers. We 
calculated age-standardized incidence rates per 100 000 person-years with 95% 
confidence intervals (CIs) using direct standardization, stratified by calendar 
period and sex. We also calculated limited-duration prevalence.
RESULTS: Among 19 403 adults living with HIV (79% males), 1275 incident cancers 
were diagnosed. From 1997-2000 to 2016- 2020, we saw a decrease in the incidence 
of all cancers (1113.9 [95% CI 657.7-1765.6] to 683.5 [95% CI 613.4-759.4] per 
100 000 person-years), ADCs (403.1 [95% CI 194.2-739.0] to 103.8 [95% CI 
79.2-133.6] per 100 000 person-years) and infection-related NADCs (196.6 [95% CI 
37.9-591.9] to 121.9 [95% CI 94.3-154.9] per 100 000 person-years). The 
incidence of infection-unrelated cancers was stable at 451.0 per 100 000 
person-years (95% CI 410.3-494.7). The incidence of cancer among females 
increased over time but was similar to that of males in 2016-2020.
INTERPRETATION: Over a 24-year period, the incidence of cancer decreased 
overall, largely driven by a considerable decrease in the incidence of ADC, 
whereas the incidence of infection-unrelated cancer remained unchanged and 
contributed to the greatest burden of cancer. These findings could reflect 
combination ART-mediated changes in infectious comorbidity and increased life 
expectancy; targeted cancer screening and prevention strategies are needed.

© 2022 CMA Impact Inc. or its licensors.

DOI: 10.9778/cmajo.20220012
PMCID: PMC9312995
PMID: 35853661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Marek Smieja reports 
funding from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Air Canada and the 
Greater Toronto Airports Authority. No other competing interests were declared.


169. J Geriatr Oncol. 2022 Sep;13(7):1038-1042. doi: 10.1016/j.jgo.2022.07.003.
Epub  2022 Jul 16.

Surveillance mammography in older breast cancer survivors: Current practice 
patterns and patient perceptions.

Karam D(1), Vierkant RA(2), Ehlers S(3), Freedman RA(4), Austin J(5), Khanani 
S(6), Larson NL(7), Loprinzi CL(7), Couch F(7), Olson JE(7), Ruddy KJ(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic Health System at 
Austin and Albert Lea, Albert Lea, MN 56007, USA. Electronic address: 
karam.dhauna@mayo.edu.
(2)Division of Clinical Trials and Biostatistics, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 
55905, USA.
(3)Division of Psychiatry and Psychology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
(4)Division of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02215, 
USA.
(5)Division of Epidemiology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, AZ 85259, USA.
(6)Division of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
(7)Division of Medical Oncology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Although the benefits of surveillance mammography for older breast 
cancer survivors have not been quantified prospectively, it is unlikely that 
mammography provides substantial benefit (and possible that mammography is 
harmful) to women with limited life expectancy and a low risk for in-breast 
cancer events.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We identified 1268 women aged 77 and older with a history 
of Stage I-III breast cancer, who did not undergo bilateral mastectomy, were 
diagnosed with cancer at least three years prior to study entry, and who had 
consented to be surveyed as part of the Mayo Clinic Breast Disease Registry. We 
mailed them a one-time survey asking about their experiences with surveillance 
mammography. Women with metastatic disease were excluded. The primary endpoint 
was whether or not women reported at least one mammogram since breast cancer 
surgery.
RESULTS: Eight hundred forty-six of 1268 (67%) returned the survey, 734 of whom 
were eligible for analysis. The median age at the time of survey was 82, and the 
median time since cancer diagnosis was 12 years. Ninety-three percent reported 
having had at least one mammogram since their initial breast cancer surgery. 
Seventy-nine percent reported that they had surveillance mammography annually 
over the prior three years, including 76% of the 491 aged 80+ and 64% of the 189 
aged 85 + .
DISCUSSION: Most older breast cancer survivors who have residual breast tissue 
are undergoing annual mammograms. Additional educational materials may be 
beneficial for patients and clinicians to better individualize plans for 
surveillance mammography in older breast cancer survivors.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgo.2022.07.003
PMID: 35853817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no potential conflicts of interest.


170. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2022 Jul 19;17(1):280. doi: 10.1186/s13023-022-02429-z.

Qualitative analysis of patient interviews on the burden of neuronopathic 
Gaucher disease in Japan.

Koto Y(1), Narita A(2), Noto S(3), Ono M(4), Hamada AL(4), Sakai N(5).

Author information:
(1)Child Healthcare and Genetic Science Laboratory, Division of Health Sciences, 
Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-7 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka, 
565-0871, Japan.
(2)Division of Child Neurology, Institute of Neurological Science, Faculty of 
Medicine, Tottori University, 36-1 Nishi-cho, Yonago, Tottori, 683-8504, Japan.
(3)Department of Rehabilitation, Niigata University of Health and Welfare, 1398 
Shimami-cho, Kita-ku, Niigata, Niigata, 950-3198, Japan.
(4)Japan Medical Office, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, 1-1 
Nihonbashi-Honcho 2-chome Chuo-ku, Tokyo, 103-8668, Japan.
(5)Child Healthcare and Genetic Science Laboratory, Division of Health Sciences, 
Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, 1-7 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka, 
565-0871, Japan. norio@sahs.med.osaka-u.ac.jp.

Erratum in
    Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2023 Mar 24;18(1):67.

BACKGROUND: Gaucher disease (GD) is a rare, autosomal recessive lysosomal 
storage disorder that adversely affects life expectancy and health-related 
quality of life (HRQOL). Although HRQOL questionnaires are available for type 1 
GD, they are not suitable for patients with the neuronopathic types 2 and 3 GD 
who have neurological symptoms that develop during early childhood or 
adolescence. Here we report the development of a language-validated HRQOL 
questionnaire specifically for patients with neuronopathic types 2 and 3 GD in 
Japan, which is the first step toward HRQOL questionnaire provision for all 
types of GD in the future.
METHODS: In February and March 2021, semi-structured interviews were conducted 
by the authors (supported by qualified interviewers) with patients and/or their 
caregivers (for patients < 16 years old) who were recruited from a Japanese 
patient association, the Association of Gaucher Disease Patients in Japan. 
Qualitative analysis of interview transcripts was used to identify major themes 
and key topics within those themes. Hierarchical cluster analysis and 
co-occurrence network analysis were performed to map relationships between 
commonly occurring words. The study is registered at the UMIN Clinical Trials 
Registry ( https://www.umin.ac.jp/ctr/index.htm [UMIN000042872]).
RESULTS: Three main themes emerged from qualitative analysis: treatment status, 
patient burden, and social support systems. Key topics within each theme 
included hearing impairment, visual impairment, difficulty swallowing, 
difficulty speaking, involuntary movement of extremities, epileptic seizures, 
and body aches (treatment status); anxiety about symptoms, difficulty with 
exercise and work, anxiety about continuing treatment, anxiety about going out, 
and tiredness from hospital visit or treatment (patient burden); and 
dissatisfaction about government service, lack of social support, and 
information exchange in the patient association (social support systems). 
Commonly used words and the relationships between words identified through the 
hierarchical cluster and co-occurrence network analyses supported these themes 
and topics.
CONCLUSIONS: The themes and topics identified in this analysis were specific to 
patients with types 2 and 3 GD and will be used to inform the development of a 
HRQOL questionnaire specifically for patients with all GD types.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13023-022-02429-z
PMCID: PMC9295096
PMID: 35854314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: YK, AN, and NS have received research funding 
from Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited (Takeda, hereafter) and have served 
as consultants and on speakers’ bureaus for Takeda. SN has served as a 
consultant for Takeda. MO and ALH are employees of Takeda and MO is a 
stockholder of Takeda.


171. BMC Health Serv Res. 2022 Jul 19;22(1):932. doi: 10.1186/s12913-022-08294-7.

Economic evaluation of an incentive-based program to increase physical activity 
and reduce sedentary behaviour in middle-aged adults.

Maple JL(1)(2), Ananthapavan J(3)(4), Ball K(5), Teychenne M(5), Moodie M(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health and Sport, Victoria University, Footscray, Australia. 
Jaimie-Lee.Maple@vu.edu.au.
(2)Institute for Physical Activity and Nutrition (IPAN), School of Exercise and 
Nutrition Science, Deakin University, Geelong, Australia. 
Jaimie-Lee.Maple@vu.edu.au.
(3)Deakin Health Economics, Faculty of Health, Institute for Health 
Transformation, Deakin University, Geelong, Australia.
(4)Global Obesity Centre (GLOBE), Faculty of Health, Institute of Health 
Transformation, Deakin University, Geelong, Australia.
(5)Institute for Physical Activity and Nutrition (IPAN), School of Exercise and 
Nutrition Science, Deakin University, Geelong, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Incentive-based programs represent a promising approach for health 
insurers to encourage health-promoting behaviours. However, little is known 
about the value for money of such programs. This study aimed to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of the ACHIEVE (Active CHoices IncEntiVE) program designed to 
incentivise increased physical activity and reduced sedentary behaviour in 
middle-aged adults.
METHODS:  A within-trial cost-efficacy analysis was conducted. Benefits were 
assessed by evaluating paired t-tests from participants' pre- and post- trial 
Body Mass Index (BMI) (kg/m2), sitting time (minutes/day) and metabolic 
equivalents (METS) minutes. A health sector perspective was adopted for the 
assessment of costs. Pathway analysis was used to determine the resource use 
associated with the intervention, with costs expressed in Australian dollars 
(A$) for the 2015 reference year. A long-term cost-effectiveness analysis was 
undertaken which extended the analysis time horizon and the trial population to 
the relevant eligible Australian population. Within this analysis, the 16-week 
intervention was modelled for roll-out across Australia over a 1-year time 
horizon targeting people with private health insurance who are insufficiently 
active and highly sedentary. Improved health related quality of life quantified 
in Health-Adjusted Life Years (HALYs) (based on the health impacts of increased 
metabolic equivalent (MET) minutes and reduced body mass index (BMI) and 
cost-offsets (resulting from reductions in obesity and physical 
inactivity-related diseases) were tracked until the cohort reached age 100 years 
or death. A 3% discount rate was used and all outcomes were expressed in 2010 
values. Simulation modelling techniques were used to present 95% uncertainty 
intervals around all outputs.
RESULTS:  The within-trial cost-efficacy analysis indicated that the ACHIEVE 
intervention cost approximately A$77,432. The cost per participant recruited was 
A$944. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for MET increase per 
person per week was A$0.61; minute of sedentary time reduced per participant per 
day was A$5.15 and BMI unit loss per participant was A$763. The long-term cost 
effectiveness analysis indicated that if the intervention was scaled-up to all 
eligible Australians, approximately 265,095 participants would be recruited to 
the program at an intervention cost of A$107.4 million. Health care cost savings 
were A$33.4 million. Total HALYs gained were 2,709. The mean ICER was estimated 
at A$27,297 per HALY gained which is considered cost-effective in the Australian 
setting.
CONCLUSION:  The study findings suggest that financial incentives to promote 
physical activity and reduce sedentary behaviour are likely to be 
cost-effective.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry: 
ACTRN12616000158460 (10/02/2016).

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-022-08294-7
PMCID: PMC9297637
PMID: 35854379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare they have no competing 
interests.


172. J Bone Miner Res. 2022 Oct;37(10):1891-1902. doi: 10.1002/jbmr.4655. Epub
2022  Aug 17.

Palovarotene for Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Progressiva (FOP): Results of a 
Randomized, Placebo-Controlled, Double-Blind Phase 2 Trial.

Pignolo RJ(1), Baujat G(2), Hsiao EC(3), Keen R(4), Wilson A(5), Packman J(5), 
Strahs AL(5), Grogan DR(5), Kaplan FS(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Divisions of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology, 
Hospital Internal Medicine, and Endocrinology, Robert and Arlene Kogod Center on 
Aging, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(2)Departement de Genetique, Institut IMAGINE and Hôpital Necker-Enfants 
Malades, Paris, France.
(3)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, UCSF Metabolic Bone Clinic, 
Institute for Human Genetics, Institute for Regeneration Medicine, and the 
Program for Craniofacial Biology, University of California-San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(4)Consultant Rheumatologist & Honorary Senior Lecturer in Metabolic Bone 
Disease, The Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital, Stanmore, UK.
(5)Ipsen, Newton, MA, USA.
(6)Departments of Orthopaedic Surgery and Medicine, and The Center for Research 
in FOP and Related Disorders, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP) is an ultra-rare genetic disorder 
characterized by progressive heterotopic ossification (HO), often heralded by 
flare-ups, leading to reduced movement and life expectancy. This 
placebo-controlled, double-blind trial (NCT02190747) evaluated palovarotene, an 
orally bioavailable selective retinoic acid receptor gamma agonist, for 
prevention of HO in patients with FOP. Patients experiencing a flare-up were 
enrolled in two cohorts: (1) patients ≥15 years were randomized 3:1 to 
palovarotene 10/5 mg (weeks 1-2/3-6) or placebo; (2) patients ≥6 years were 
randomized 3:3:2 to palovarotene 10/5 mg, palovarotene 5/2.5 mg (weeks 1-2/3-6), 
or placebo. Cohort data were pooled. The primary endpoint was the proportion of 
responders (no/minimal new HO at flare-up body region by plain radiograph) at 
week 6. Change from baseline in HO volume and new HO incidence were assessed by 
computed tomography (CT) at week 12. Tissue edema was assessed by magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) or ultrasound. Forty patients (aged 7-53 years) were 
enrolled (placebo: n = 10; palovarotene 5/2.5 mg: n = 9; palovarotene 10/5 mg: 
n = 21). Disease history was similar between groups. In the per-protocol 
population, the proportion of responders at week 6 by plain radiograph was 100% 
with palovarotene 10/5 mg; 88.9% with palovarotene 5/2.5 mg; 88.9% with placebo 
(Cochran-Armitage trend test: p = 0.17). At week 12, the proportions were 95.0% 
with palovarotene 10/5 mg; 88.9% with palovarotene 5/2.5 mg; 77.8% with placebo 
(Cochran-Armitage trend test: p = 0.15). Week 12 least-squares mean (LSmean) new 
HO volume, assessed by CT, was 3.8 × 103  mm3 with palovarotene 10/5 mg; 
1.3 × 103  mm3 with palovarotene 5/2.5 mg; 18.0 × 103  mm3 with placebo 
(pairwise tests versus placebo: p ≤ 0.12). Palovarotene was well-tolerated. No 
patients discontinued treatment or required dose reduction; one patient had dose 
interruption due to elevated lipase. Although these findings were not 
statistically significant, they support further evaluation of palovarotene for 
prevention of HO in FOP in larger studies. © 2022 The Authors. Journal of Bone 
and Mineral Research published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American 
Society for Bone and Mineral Research (ASBMR).

© 2022 The Authors. Journal of Bone and Mineral Research published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Bone and Mineral Research 
(ASBMR).

DOI: 10.1002/jbmr.4655
PMCID: PMC9804935
PMID: 35854638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: RJP: Research investigator: Clementia/Ipsen, 
Regeneron; Advisory board: International FOP Association (IFOPA) Medical 
Advisory Board; President of the International Clinical Council on FOP. GB: 
Advisory board: Clementia/Ipsen, FOP European Consortium, International Clinical 
Council on FOP; Speaker: Clementia/Ipsen; ECH: Research investigator: 
Clementia/Ipsen; Receives clinical trials support through his institution from 
Clementia/Ipsen; Prior research support from Neurocrine Biosciences and 
Regeneron; Serves in a volunteer capacity on the International Clinical Council 
on FOP, the medical advisory board of the Fibrous Dysplasia Foundation, and the 
medical registry advisory board of the IFOPA. RK: Research investigator: 
Ipsen/Clementia, Kyowa Kirin, Regeneron; Advisory board: IFOPA FOP Registry 
Medical Advisory Board, International Clinical Council on FOP. AW: Employee of 
Clementia at the time the study was conducted. JP: Employee of Clementia at the 
time the study was conducted. ALS: Employee of Ipsen. DRG: Chief Medical Officer 
of Clementia and a shareholder at the time these data were obtained. FSK: 
Research investigator: Clementia/Ipsen, Regeneron; Advisory Board: IFOPA Medical 
Advisory Board; Founder and Past President of the International Clinical Council 
on FOP. In April 2019, Ipsen acquired Clementia Pharmaceuticals.


173. Aging Dis. 2022 Jul 11;13(4):1005-1014. doi: 10.14336/AD.2022.0117.
eCollection  2022 Jul 11.

Extension of the Life Span by Acarbose: Is It Mediated by the Gut Microbiota?

Wu B(1)(2), Yan J(1)(3), Yang J(1)(3), Xia Y(1)(3), Li D(1)(3), Zhang F(1)(3), 
Cao H(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)1Nutritional Department, Affiliated Hospital of Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 
China.
(2)2School of Medicine, Nantong University, Nantong, China.
(3)3Clinical Assessment Center of Functional Food, Affiliated Hospital of 
Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China.
(4)4Department of Endocrinology, Affiliated Hospital of Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi, China.

Acarbose can extend the life span of mice through a process involving the gut 
microbiota. Several factors affect the life span, including mitochondrial 
function, cellular senescence, telomere length, immune function, and expression 
of longevity-related genes. In this review, the effects of acarbose-regulated 
gut microbiota on the life span-influencing factors have been discussed. In 
addition, a novel theoretical basis for improving our understanding of the 
mechanisms by which acarbose extends the life span of mice has been suggested.

copyright: © 2022 Wu et al.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2022.0117
PMCID: PMC9286917
PMID: 35855337

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure Statement The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to declare.


174. Aging Dis. 2022 Jul 11;13(4):970-986. doi: 10.14336/AD.2021.1213.
eCollection  2022 Jul 11.

Metformin's Mechanisms in Attenuating Hallmarks of Aging and Age-Related 
Disease.

Cheng FF(1)(2), Liu YL(1)(2), Du J(2), Lin JT(2).

Author information:
(1)1College of Life Science and Technology, Xinxiang Medical University, 
Xinxiang 453003, China.
(2)2Stem Cell and Biotherapy Engineering Research Center of Henan, Xinxiang 
Medical University, Xinxiang 453003, China.

Aging is a major global challenge, and there is growing demand for new 
strategies to address the burden of aging. The intensive search for antiaging 
agents has led to the discovery of a variety of drugs that promote the extension 
of healthspan and/or life. Metformin is a safe, effective, and globally 
affordable antihyperglycemic agent that has gained much attention in recent 
years as a potential antiaging treatment. Metformin has been shown to 
significantly delay the onset of age-related diseases and increase lifespan in 
several model organisms. In this paper, we reviewed aging hallmarks and the role 
of metformin in countering these hallmarks. We examined the beneficial effects 
of metformin on several age-related diseases and the feasibility of metformin as 
an agent to extend lifespan and healthspan. Finally, we discussed new research 
directions to better understand the translational potential of metformin in 
humans.

copyright: © 2022 Cheng et al.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2021.1213
PMCID: PMC9286921
PMID: 35855344

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The authors disclose no 
potential conflicts of interest.


175. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2022 Jul 10;43(7):1079-1086. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20211227-01020.

[Analysis on liver cancer mortality and cause eliminated life expectancy in key 
areas of 4 provinces, China, 2008-2018].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Wang QT(1), Qi JL(2), Wang N(1), Wan X(3), Wang B(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer and Key Chronic Disease Control and Prevention Laboratory, National 
Center for Chronic and Non-communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Chinese 
Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, China.
(2)Division of Vital Registration and Death Cause Surveillance, National Center 
for Chronic and Non-communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Chinese Center 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, China.
(3)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences/Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of Basic 
Medicine, Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100005, China.

Objective: To explore the changes of liver cancer mortality and the effect of 
liver cancer on life expectancy in key areas of four provinces in China from 
2008 to 2018 and provide the basis for the evaluation of comprehensive 
prevention and control of cancer and promotion of the rational allocation of 
health resources. Methods: Based on the national cause-of-death surveillance in 
key areas of the 4 provinces from 2008 to 2018, we analyzed the mortality of 
liver cancer, cause eliminated life expectancy (CELE) and potential gains in 
life expectancy (PGLEs). Software Joinpoint 4.9.0.0 was used to calculate the 
average annual percentage change (AAPC). Arriaga's decomposition method was used 
to estimate the contribution of the changes of liver cancer mortality in each 
age group to life expectancy. Results: The standardized mortality of liver 
cancer in key areas of the 4 provinces showed a downward trend from 2008 to 2018 
(AAPC=-4.37%, P<0.001). The changes of liver cancer mortality had a positive 
effect on the increase of life expectancy, with a contribution value of 0.240 
years and a contribution degree of 5.62%. The positive effect was greatest in 
age group 45-49 years (0.041 years, 0.96%), and the negative effect was greatest 
in age group 50-54 years (-0.015 years, -0.35%). Compared with 2008, the life 
expectancy increased by 4.27 years (AAPC=0.59%, P<0.001), the liver cancer CELE 
increased by 4.20 years (AAPC=0.58%, P<0.001), the PGLEs decreased by 0.07 years 
(AAPC=-0.62%,P<0.001), and life loss rate decreased by 0.13% (AAPC=-1.18%, 
P=0.001). The liver cancer PGLEs increased in Yongqiao district, Anhui province 
(0.09 years), and decreased in other districts (counties), with the largest 
decline was in Fugou county, Henan province (-0.21 years). Conclusions: From 
2008 to 2018, the standardized mortality rate of liver cancer in key areas of 
the 4 provinces decreased gradually, contributing to the growth of life 
expectancy. The life loss caused by liver cancer decreased gradually, but the 
PGLEs varied with districts (counties).

Publisher: 目的： 
分析2008-2018年中国4省重点地区人群肝癌死亡率变化趋势，探讨肝癌死亡对期望寿命变化的影响程度，为评估该地区综合防控效果、促进卫生资源合理配置提供数据支撑。 
方法： 
基于2008-2018年中国CDC全国死因监测数据库中4省重点地区死因数据，分析该地区肝癌死亡率、去死因期望寿命（CELE）、去死因期望寿命增长年（PGLEs），采用Joinpoint 
4.9.0.0软件计算平均年度变化百分比（AAPC），采用Arriaga分解法估计各年龄组肝癌死亡率变化对期望寿命变化的贡献情况。 结果： 
2008-2018年4省重点地区肝癌标化死亡率整体呈下降趋势（AAPC=-4.37%，P<0.001）。肝癌死亡率变化对期望寿命增长起积极作用，贡献值0.240岁，贡献度5.62%；其中，积极作用最大的是45~49岁年龄组（0.041岁，0.96%），消极作用最大的是50~54岁年龄组（-0.015岁，-0.35%）。与2008年相比，2018年4省重点地区人群期望寿命增长4.27岁（AAPC=0.59%，P<0.001），肝癌CELE增长4.20岁（AAPC=0.58%，P<0.001），PGLEs下降0.07岁（AAPC=-0.62%，P<0.001），寿命损失率下降0.13%（AAPC=-1.18%，P=0.001）。安徽省埇桥区的肝癌PGLEs上升（0.09岁），其余区（县）均下降，河南省扶沟县降幅最大（-0.21岁）。 
结论： 
2008-2018年中国4省重点地区肝癌标化死亡率下降，肝癌死亡率变化对期望寿命增长发挥积极作用，肝癌导致的寿命损失下降，各区（县）之间PGLEs存在差异。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20211227-01020
PMID: 35856203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2022 Jul 10;43(7):1140-1146. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20211221-01005.

[Based on a Markov model, cost-effectiveness analysis of influenza vaccination 
among people aged 60 years and older in Shenzhen].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Wu XL(1), Ye ZJ(1), Xie F(1), Huang DF(1), Kong TJ(1), Feng SX(1), Zhang YW(1), 
Jiang Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Shenzhen Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Shenzhen 518073, China.
(2)School of Public Health, Sun Yat-sen University (Shenzhen), Shenzhen 518107, 
China.

Objective: To assess the cost-effectiveness of influenza vaccination among 
people aged 60 years and older in Shenzhen. Methods: A Markov state transition 
model was constructed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of annual influenza 
vaccination for preventing influenza infection compared with no vaccination 
among the elderly from the social perspective. Allowing seasonal variation of 
influenza activity, the model followed a five-year cohort using weekly cycles. 
We employed once the Chinese gross domestic product (GDP) per capita in 2019 (70 
892 yuan) as the willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold and calculated the net 
monetary benefit (NMB) with costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
discounted at 5% annually. The impact of parameter uncertainty on the results 
was examined using one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses (PSA). 
Results: The base case amounted to approximately 35 yuan of cost-saving and a 
net gain of 0.007 QALYs. Correspondingly, the NMB was 529 yuan per vaccinated 
person. One-way sensitivity analyses showed that the NMB was relatively 
sensitive to changes in the attack rate of influenza and vaccine effectiveness. 
Based on the results of PSA with 1 000 Monte Carlo simulations, influenza 
vaccination had a probability of being cost-effective in 100% of the 
repetitions. Conclusions: The present study provides evidence that influenza 
vaccination is a cost-saving disease prevention strategy for people aged 60 
years and older in Shenzhen.

Publisher: 目的： 评估深圳市≥60岁人群免费接种流感疫苗的成本效果。 方法： 
以深圳市≥60岁常住人群为研究对象，构建马尔科夫状态转换模型，从社会的角度来评估与不接种疫苗相比，每年接种流感疫苗预防流感的成本效果。模型以周为周期，研究时限5年，模拟流感发病的季节性变化。采用5%的年贴现率对模型中的成本和质量调整生命年（QALYs）进行贴现并计算净货币效益（NMB），以2019年中国人均国内生产总值GDP（70 
892元）作为支付意愿阈值进行评价。单因素和概率敏感性分析用于评估参数不确定性对结果的影响。 结果： 
与不接种疫苗相比，人均节约总成本35元并且多获得0.007个QALYs，人均获得的NMB为529元。单因素敏感性分析的结果显示，流感发病率和流感疫苗保护效果是影响基线结果的主要因素。在1 
000次的蒙特卡罗模拟中，接种流感疫苗具有成本效果的概率为100%。 结论： 
与不接种疫苗相比，深圳市≥60岁人群每年接种流感疫苗是一项成本节约的疾病预防策略。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20211221-01005
PMID: 35856212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2022 Aug 16;66(8):e0060922. doi: 
10.1128/aac.00609-22. Epub 2022 Jul 20.

Quantitative Imaging Analysis of the Spatial Relationship between 
Antiretrovirals, Reverse Transcriptase Simian-Human Immunodeficiency Virus RNA, 
and Fibrosis in the Spleens of Nonhuman Primates.

Devanathan AS(1), White NR(1), Desyaterik Y(1), De la Cruz G(2), Nekorchuk M(3), 
Terry M(3), Busman-Sahay K(3), Adamson L(4), Luciw P(4), Fedoriw Y(2), Estes 
JD(3)(5), Rosen EP(1), Kashuba ADM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)UNC Eshelman School of Pharmacy, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(2)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hillgrid.10698.36 School of Medicine, 
Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(3)Vaccine and Gene Therapy Institute, Oregon Health & Science University, 
Beaverton, Oregon, USA.
(4)University of California at Davis, Davis, California, USA.
(5)Division of Pathobiology and Immunology, Oregon National Primate Research 
Center, Oregon Health & Science University, Beaverton, Oregon, USA.

Although current antiretroviral therapy (ART) has increased life expectancy, a 
cure for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) remains elusive due to the 
persistence of the virus in tissue reservoirs. In the present study, we sought 
to elucidate the relationship between antiretrovirals (ARVs) and viral 
expression in the spleen. We performed mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) of 6 
different ARVs, RNAscope in situ hybridization of viral RNA, and 
immunohistochemistry of three different fibrosis markers in the spleens of 8 
uninfected and 10 reverse transcriptase simian-human immunodeficiency virus 
(RT-SHIV)-infected rhesus macaques (infected for 6 weeks) that had been dosed 
for 10 days with combination ART. Using MATLAB, computational quantitative 
imaging analysis was performed to evaluate the spatial and pharmacological 
relationships between the 6 ARVs, viral RNA, and fibrotic deposition. In these 
spleens, >50% of the spleen tissue area was not covered by any detectable ARV 
response (any concentration above the limits of detection for individual ARVs). 
The median spatial ARV coverage across all tissues was driven by maraviroc 
followed by efavirenz. Yet >50% of RNA-positive cells were not exposed to any 
detectable ARV. Quantifiable maraviroc and efavirenz colocalization with 
RNA-positive cells was usually greater than the in vitro concentration 
inhibiting 50% replication (IC50). Fibrosis markers covered more than 50% of the 
spleen tissue area and had negative relationships with cumulative ARV coverages. 
Our findings suggest that a heterogeneous ARV spatial distribution must be 
considered when evaluating viral persistence in lymphoid tissue reservoirs.

DOI: 10.1128/aac.00609-22
PMCID: PMC9380553
PMID: 35856680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


178. Rev Med Chil. 2022 Jan;150(1):93-99. doi: 10.4067/S0034-98872022000100093.

[Immune checkpoint inhibitors. A breakthrough in cancer therapy].

[Article in Spanish]

Cárdenas-Oyarzo AM(1), Bocchieri-Oyarce PA(2), Méndez-Laport CR(3), Zolezzi 
JM(4), Ríos JA(5).

Author information:
(1)Escuela de Obstetricia y Puericultura, Facultad de Ciencias Médicas, 
Universidad Bernardo OHiggins, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Departamento de Anatomía Patológica, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de 
Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(3)Unidad de Radioterapia, Hospital Regional de Valdivia, Valdivia, Chile.
(4)Centro de Excelencia en Biomedicina de Magallanes, Escuela de Medicina, 
Universidad de Magallanes, Punta Arenas, Chile.
(5)Escuela de Medicina, Facultad de Medicina y Ciencia, Universidad San 
Sebastián, Sebastián, Chile.

Professors James P. Allison and Tasuku Honjo were awarded with the 2018 Nobel 
Prize in Medicine for their contributions in cancer immunotherapy. The latter is 
a breakthrough in cancer therapy, aimed to overcome tumor-induced 
immunosuppression, leading to the reactivation of the immune system against 
cancer cells. Under physiological conditions, the CTLA-4 and PD-1 proteins 
expressed on T-cells and discovered by the awarded scientists, lead to immune 
tolerance. Cancer cells exploit these control points to enhance the inhibition 
of T-cells. The expression of PD ligands (PD-L1) in tumor cells and CTLA-4 
ligands in antigen presenting cells, which bind the PD-1 receptor and CTLA-4 
respectively, block anti-tumor immunity. This situation led to a 
biotechnological race focused on the development of effective antibodies able to 
"turn-on" the immune system cheated by the tumor. Anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-1 
antibodies improve life-expectancy in cancer patients. In this review, we 
perform an historical overview of Professors Allison and Honjo contribution, as 
well as the immunological basis of this new and powerful therapeutic strategy, 
highlighting the clinical benefits of such intervention.

DOI: 10.4067/S0034-98872022000100093
PMID: 35856970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Plant Foods Hum Nutr. 2022 Sep;77(3):329-339. doi:
10.1007/s11130-022-00993-0.  Epub 2022 Jul 20.

Bioactive Properties of Bread Formulated with Plant-based Functional Ingredients 
Before Consumption and Possible Links with Health Outcomes After Consumption- A 
Review.

Amoah I(1)(2)(3), Cairncross C(4), Osei EO(5), Yeboah JA(5), Cobbinah JC(5), 
Rush E(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health and Environmental Sciences, Auckland University of 
Technology, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand. isaacamoah@knust.edu.gh.
(2)Riddet Institute, Massey University, Private Bag 11222, Palmerston North, 
4442, New Zealand. isaacamoah@knust.edu.gh.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, Kwame Nkrumah University of 
Science and Technology, Kumasi, Ghana. isaacamoah@knust.edu.gh.
(4)Faculty of Health and Environmental Sciences, Auckland University of 
Technology, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, Kwame Nkrumah University of 
Science and Technology, Kumasi, Ghana.
(6)Faculty of Health and Environmental Sciences, Auckland University of 
Technology, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand. elaine.rush@aut.ac.nz.
(7)Riddet Institute, Massey University, Private Bag 11222, Palmerston North, 
4442, New Zealand. elaine.rush@aut.ac.nz.

Bread is a commonly consumed staple and could be a viable medium to deliver 
plant-based ingredients that demonstrate health effects. This review brings 
together published evidence on the bioactive properties of bread formulated with 
plant-based ingredients. Health effects associated with the consumption of bread 
formulated with plant-based functional ingredients was also reviewed. Bioactive 
properties demonstrated by the functional ingredients fruits and vegetables, 
legumes, nuts and tea incorporated into bread include increased phenolic and 
polyphenolic content, increased antioxidant activity, and extension of bread 
shelf-life by impairment of lipid and protein oxidation. Acute health effects 
reported included appetite suppression, reduced diastolic blood pressure, 
improvements in glycaemia, insulinaemia and satiety effect. These metabolic 
effects are mainly short lived and not enough for a health claim. Longer term 
studies or comparison of those who consume and those who do not are needed. The 
incorporation of plant-based functional ingredients in bread could enhance the 
health-promoting effects of bread.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11130-022-00993-0
PMCID: PMC9463282
PMID: 35857200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared no conflict of 
interest.


180. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2022 Nov 1;47(21):1532-1540. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0000000000004417. Epub 2022 Jun 30.

Spinal Cord Injury: The Global Incidence, Prevalence, and Disability From the 
Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

Ding W(1), Hu S, Wang P, Kang H, Peng R, Dong Y, Li F.

Author information:
(1)Department of orthopedics, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.

STUDY DESIGN: A retrospective cohort study.
OBJECTIVE: The authors aimed to estimate the incidence, prevalence and years 
lived with disability (YLDs) of spinal cord injury (SCI) by location, sex, age, 
injury site and socio-demographic index (SDI) based on the data of the Global 
Burden of Disease Study (GBD) 2019.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: GBD 2019 estimates the burden of 369 diseases and 
injuries worldwide in 2019 and the temporal trends in the past 30 years. SCI is 
estimated as a result of injury from various causes.
METHODS: A Bayesian meta-regression tool, DisMod-MR2.1, was used to produce the 
estimates. Estimated annual percentage change (EAPC) was calculated based on a 
linear regression mode of the age standardized rates and the calendar year to 
represent the temporal trends of the age standardized rates. Spearman rank order 
correlation was used to determine the correlation between SDI and the incidence 
and burden of SCI.
RESULTS: Globally, there were 0.9 [95% uncertainty interval (UI), 0.7 to 1.2] 
million incident cases, 20.6 (95% UI, 18.9-23.6) million prevalent cases and 6.2 
(95% UI, 4.5-8.2) million YLDs of total SCI in 2019. The ASPR increased (EAPC, 
0.1; 95% confidence interval, -0.01 to 0.2), while the age standardized 
incidence rate (ASIR) (EAPC, -0.08; 95% UI, -0.24 to 0.09) and age standardized 
YLD rate (ASYR) (EAPC, -0.08; 95% confidence interval, -0.24 to 0.09) decreased. 
Males had higher ASIR and ASYR, and the rate of incidence, prevalence and YLD 
increased with age. Spinal injuries at neck level caused higher ASYR than 
injuries below neck level. A positive correlation existed between SDI and ASIR 
(ρ=0.1626, P <0.05), while a negative correlation was observed between SDI and 
EAPC of ASYR (ρ=-0.2421, P <0.01).
CONCLUSION: Conclusively, the incidence and burden of SCI has increased over the 
last 30 years. Males and the elderly were affected to a greater degree than 
females and younger individuals.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0000000000004417
PMCID: PMC9554757
PMID: 35857624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.181. Ophthalmic Surg Lasers Imaging Retina. 2022 Jul;53(7):398-402. doi: 
10.3928/23258160-20220613-01. Epub 2022 Jul 1.

Findings on Optical Coherence Tomography in Malignant Infantile Osteopetrosis.

Campagna GA, Chew L, Pettenkofer M, Nicoletti E, Schwartz JD, Choi G, Fernandes 
AO, Terrazas D, Kohn DB, Tsui I.

Malignant infantile osteopetrosis is a rare inherited disorder with neurological 
complications and a shortened life expectancy. Vision loss is typically 
attributed to osseous compression of the optic nerves at the level of the optic 
canal. Fundus imaging is reported, as well as the first optical coherence 
tomography and optical coherence tomography angiography in this rare condition. 
Imaging revealed optic nerve pallor, subfoveal ellipsoid zone disruption, and an 
enlarged foveal avascular zone. These results provide insight regarding other 
potential mechanisms of vision loss in these patients. [Ophthalmic Surg Lasers 
Imaging Retina 2022; 53:398-402.].

DOI: 10.3928/23258160-20220613-01
PMID: 35858232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2022 Jul 26;119(30):e2201067119. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2201067119. Epub 2022 Jul 18.

A long-acting C-natriuretic peptide for achondroplasia.

Schneider EL(1), Carreras CW(1), Reid R(1), Ashley GW(1), Santi DV(1).

Author information:
(1)ProLynx, San Francisco, CA 94158.

The C-natriuretic peptide (CNP) analog vosoritide has recently been approved for 
treatment of achondroplasia in children. However, the regimen requires daily 
subcutaneous injections in pediatric patients over multiple years. The present 
work sought to develop a long-acting CNP that would provide efficacy equal to or 
greater than that of vosoritide but require less frequent injections. We used a 
technology for half-life extension, whereby a drug is attached to 
tetra-polyethylene glycol hydrogels (tetra-PEG) by β-eliminative linkers that 
cleave at predetermined rates. These hydrogels-fabricated as uniform ∼60-μm 
microspheres-are injected subcutaneously, where they serve as a stationary depot 
to slowly release the drug into the systemic circulation. We prepared a highly 
active, stable CNP analog-[Gln6,14]CNP-38-composed of the 38 C-terminal amino 
acids of human CNP-53 containing Asn to Gln substitutions to preclude 
degradative deamidation. Two microsphere [Gln6,14]CNP-38 conjugates were 
prepared, with release rates designed to allow once-weekly and once-monthly 
administration. After subcutaneous injection of the conjugates in mice, 
[Gln6,14]CNP-38 was slowly released into the systemic circulation and showed 
biphasic elimination pharmacokinetics with terminal half-lives of ∼200 and ∼600 
h. Both preparations increased growth of mice comparable to or exceeding that 
produced by daily vosoritide. Simulations of the pharmacokinetics in humans 
indicated that plasma [Gln6,14]CNP-38 levels should be maintained within a 
therapeutic window over weekly, biweekly, and likely, monthly dosing intervals. 
Compared with vosoritide, which requires ∼30 injections per month, microsphere 
[Gln6,14]CNP-38 conjugates-especially the biweekly and monthly dosing-could 
provide an alternative that would be well accepted by physicians, patients, and 
patient caregivers.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2201067119
PMCID: PMC9335275
PMID: 35858423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interest statement: All authors are 
employees and hold options or stock in ProLynx.


183. Stat Med. 2022 Oct 15;41(23):4629-4646. doi: 10.1002/sim.9529. Epub 2022 Jul
20.

Modeling and forecasting of at home activity in older adults using passive 
sensor technology.

Gillam J(1), Killick R(2), Heal J(3), Norwood B(3).

Author information:
(1)STOR-i Doctoral Training Centre, Lancaster University, Lancaster, UK.
(2)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Lancaster University, Lancaster, 
UK.
(3)Howz, Greenheys Business Centre, Manchester, UK.

Life expectancy in the UK has increased since the 19th century. As of 2019, 
there are just under 12 million people in the UK aged 65 or over, with close to 
a quarter living by themselves. Thus, many families and carers are looking for 
new ways to improve the health and care of older people. Passive sensors such as 
infra-red motion and plug sensors have had success as a noninvasive way to help 
the older people. These provide a series of categorical sensor events throughout 
the day. Modeling this categorical dataset can help to understand and predict 
behavior. This article proposes a method to model the probability a sensor will 
trigger throughout the day for a household whilst accounting for the prior data 
and other sensors within the home. We present our results on a dataset from 
Howz, a company helping people to passively identify changes in their behavior 
over time.

© 2022 The Authors. Statistics in Medicine published by John Wiley &amp; Sons 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.9529
PMCID: PMC9796002
PMID: 35858766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Skeletal Radiol. 2023 Oct;52(10):1825-1840. doi: 10.1007/s00256-022-04124-3.
 Epub 2022 Jul 20.

Interlaminar versus transforaminal epidural steroid injections: a review of 
efficacy and safety.

Lee E(1)(2), Lee JW(3)(4), Kang HS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Gumi-dong, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, 13620, Gyeonggi-do, Korea.
(2)Department of Radiology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Gumi-dong, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, 13620, Gyeonggi-do, Korea. 
joonwoo2@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Radiology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea. joonwoo2@gmail.com.

Spine intervention is an important treatment option for the management of spinal 
pain, and the numbers of the most representative epidural steroid injection 
(ESI) procedures performed are expected to increase significantly in the future 
along with increased life expectancy and the increasing prevalence of spinal 
disorders. Therefore, it is important to understand the efficacy of ESIs 
according to each spinal disorder they are administered to treat, and one must 
be familiar with the possible complications. In fact, although numerous 
ESI-related articles have been published, there is still considerable 
controversy regarding the efficacy of ESI procedures. Furthermore, due to the 
rarity of serious complications, most instances have been recorded in the form 
of case reports. In this article, we aimed to review the indications of cervical 
and lumbar ESIs and to compare interlaminar ESI (ILESI) and transforaminal ESI 
(TFESI) techniques in terms of analgesic efficacy, possible complications, and 
safety profiles. This article includes opinions based on the authors' experience 
with ESI indications and efficacy, and presents practical tips for coping with 
specific situations related to each complication. By combining the dedicated 
anatomical understanding of radiologists with image-guided interventions, ESI is 
expected to stand out in the rapidly expanding field of spine intervention.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International Skeletal Society 
(ISS).

DOI: 10.1007/s00256-022-04124-3
PMID: 35859019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Can J Aging. 2022 Sep;41(3):320-326. doi: 10.1017/S0714980821000532. Epub
2022  Jan 3.

Trends in Partial Disability-Free Life Expectancy between the Ages of 45 and 70 
in Canada, 2000-2014.

Lefebvre J(1), Carrière Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(2)Department of Demography, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, Canada.

To better evaluate the benefits of a possible increase in the normal retirement 
age, this article proposes to examine recent trends in the health status of 
Canadians between 45 and 70 years of age. Using the Sullivan method, trends from 
2000 to 2014 in partial disability-free life expectancy (PDFLE) between the ages 
of 45 and 70 years are computed. Disability is estimated using attributes of the 
Health Utility Index correlated with the capacity to work, and is looked at by 
level of severity. Data from the Canadian Community Health Survey were used to 
estimate the prevalence of disability. Results reveal a slight increase in 
partial life expectancy between the ages of 45 and 70, and a larger number of 
those years spent in poor health since the beginning of the 2000s. Hence, this 
study brings no evidence in support of the postponement of the normal retirement 
age if this policy were solely based on gains in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1017/S0714980821000532
PMID: 35859362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Indian J Public Health. 2022 Apr-Jun;66(2):152-158. doi: 
10.4103/ijph.ijph_1705_21.

Analysing the burden of morbidity, associated expenditure, and coping strategies 
among india's elderly population: Evidence from national sample survey 75(th) 
round.

Sujata S(1), Ram B(1), Thakur R(1).

Author information:
(1)PhD. Scholar, School of Humanities and Social Sciences, Indian Institute of 
Technology Mandi, Kamand Campus, Himachal Pradesh, India.

BACKGROUND: An increase in average life expectancy has raised a concern about 
whether these extra added years are characterized by good health and 
independence or health problems and dependency on others for care. The current 
study aimed to analyze the morbidity burden, associated expenditure, and coping 
strategies among India's elderly population.
DATA AND METHODS: The study uses cross-sectional data of the National Sample 
Survey 75th round. Multivariable logistic regression has been used to examine 
morbidity and associated expenditure differentials among the elderly population 
in different socioeconomic variables in India.
RESULTS: Findings show that cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the leading cause 
of morbidity and economic burden among the elderly population in India in the 
case of inpatient care. However, in outpatient care, CVDs are the leading cause 
of morbidity, while cancer is the main cause of economic burden (measured only 
through OOPE). Although CVDs are the leading cause of morbidity and economic 
burden, psychological and neurological, injuries, cancer, and gastrointestinal 
ailments force the elderly population to borrow for inpatient care. Further, it 
is the oldest, minority (Muslims) and richest section of the elderly population 
who are most likely to report health issues. Gender differential is also clear 
from the results as females are more likely to report for ailments in outpatient 
care, whereas the reverse is the incident in inpatients.
CONCLUSION: The study concluded that there is a need to increase government 
spending on social security such as old age pensions like Indira Gandhi National 
Old Age Pension Scheme, keeping in view the changing needs of the elderly 
population.

DOI: 10.4103/ijph.ijph_1705_21
PMID: 35859497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None


187. ACS Med Chem Lett. 2022 Jun 22;13(7):1159-1164. doi: 
10.1021/acsmedchemlett.2c00206. eCollection 2022 Jul 14.

Discovery of Novel Pyrazolopyrimidines as Potent, Selective, and Orally 
Bioavailable Inhibitors of ALK2.

Nguyen MH(1), Atasoylu O(1), Wu L(1), Kapilashrami K(1), Pusey M(1), Gallagher 
K(1), Lai CT(1), Zhao P(1), Barbosa J(1), Liu K(1), He C(1), Zhang C(1), 
Styduhar ED(1), Witten MR(1), Chen Y(1), Lin L(1), Yang YO(1), Covington M(1), 
Diamond S(1), Yeleswaram S(1), Yao W(1).

Author information:
(1)Incyte Research Institute, Incyte Corporation, 1801 Augustine Cut-Off, 
Wilmington, Delaware 19803, United States.

Activin receptor-like kinase 2 (ALK2) is a transmembrane kinase receptor that 
mediates the signaling of the members of the TGF-β superfamily. The aberrant 
activation of ALK2 has been linked to the rare genetic disorder fibrodysplasia 
ossificans progressiva (FOP) and diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG) that 
are associated with severely reduced life expectancy in pediatric patients. ALK2 
has also been shown to play an essential role in iron metabolism by regulating 
hepcidin levels and affecting anemia of chronic disease. Thus, selective 
inhibition of ALK2 has emerged as a promising strategy for the treatment of 
multiple disorders. Herein, we report the discovery of a novel 
pyrazolopyrimidines series as highly potent, selective, and orally bioavailable 
inhibitors of ALK2. Structure-based drug design and systematic 
structure-activity relationship studies were employed to identify potent 
inhibitors displaying high selectivity against other ALK subtypes with good 
pharmacokinetic profiles.
