The results of one-way sensitivity analysis showed that the cost of Nivolumab 
was the most sensitive parameter.
CONCLUSIONS: The ICER of Nivolumab plus ipilimumab is above the theoretical 
willingness-to-pay threshold in the U.S, which suggests that first-line 
nivolumab plus ipilimumab for unresectable MPM may be not a cost-effective 
choice.

Copyright © 2022 Ye, Tang, Xu, Zhou and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.947375
PMCID: PMC9354521
PMID: 35937220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Front Plant Sci. 2022 Jul 22;13:953861. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2022.953861. 
eCollection 2022.

Evaluating the Efficacy of Gum Arabic-Zinc Oxide Nanoparticles Composite Coating 
on Shelf-Life Extension of Mandarins (cv. Kinnow).

Nxumalo KA(1), Fawole OA(1), Oluwafemi OS(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Postharvest Research Laboratory, Department of Botany and Plant 
Biotechnology, University of Johannesburg, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(2)Department of Chemical Sciences (Formerly Applied Chemistry), University of 
Johannesburg, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(3)Centre for Nanomaterials Science Research, University of Johannesburg, 
Johannesburg, South Africa.

Restricted postharvest application of synthetic fungicides in maintaining the 
quality of citrus fruits has led to a search for alternative postharvest 
treatments. This study evaluated the efficacy of gum arabic (GA) enriched with 
green synthesized zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnO-NPs) in maintaining the 
postharvest quality of mandarin (cv. Kinnow). ZnO-NPs were synthesized using 
Bidens pilosa leaf extract and incorporated into GA (2% w/v) at 0, 0.25, 0.5, 
and 1% to form composite coatings: GA, GA + ZnO-NP 0.25%, GA + ZnO-NP 0.5% and 
GA + ZnO-NP 1%, respectively. Fruit were dipped for 3 min in the respective 
coatings, with untreated fruit used as control. Fruit were air-dried, packed in 
commercial cartons, and stored at 5 ± 1°C and 90 ± 5% relative humidity (RH) for 
40 days and observed at 10 days intervals, plus 5 days at 20 ± 5°C and 65 ± 5% 
RH to determine the incidence of physiological disorders. GA + ZnO-NP showed 
promise as an alternative postharvest treatment for controlling postharvest 
physiological disorders associated with 'Kinnow' mandarin. For instance, GA + 
ZnO-NP 0.5% markedly minimized weight loss (9.2%), electrolyte leakage (43.8%) 
and chilling injury incidence (5.4%) compared to control (weight loss; 33.3%, 
electrolyte leakage; 90.3% and chilling injury incidence; 41.5%) at the end of 
the storage. GA + ZnO-NP 1% significantly alleviated rind pitting, with 13.2% 
incidence compared to 45.2% rind pitting incidence in the control fruit. This 
was due to significantly higher phytochemical and antioxidant capacity and 
reduced antioxidant enzyme degradation in coated fruit than in control. In 
conclusion, gum arabic coating enriched with ZnO-NPs at concentrations between 
0.5 and 1% is recommended as a viable option to maintain the quality of 'Kinnow' 
mandarin fruit during cold storage.

Copyright © 2022 Nxumalo, Fawole and Oluwafemi.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2022.953861
PMCID: PMC9354938
PMID: 35937367

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


453. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2022 Jul 22;13:905367. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2022.905367. eCollection 2022.

The Global Burden of Type 2 Diabetes Attributable to Tobacco: A Secondary 
Analysis From the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

Bai J(1), Shi F(1), Ma Y(1), Yang D(1), Yu C(1)(2), Cao J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Wuhan 
University, Wuhan, China.
(2)Global Health Institute, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.

OBJECTIVES: Growing epidemiological studies have reported the relationship 
between tobacco and health loss among patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D). This 
study aimed to explore the secular trend and spatial distribution of the T2D 
burden attributable to tobacco on a global scale to better understand regional 
disparities and judge the gap between current conditions and expectations.
METHODS: As a secondary analysis, we extracted data of tobacco-attributable T2D 
burden from the 2019 Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD). Joinpoint regression 
was adopted to determine the secular trend of age-standardized rates (ASR), with 
average annual percentage change (AAPC). Gaussian process regression (GPR) was 
used to explore the average expected relationship between ASRs and the 
socio-demographic index (SDI). Spatial autocorrelation was used to indicate if 
there is clustering of age-standardized DALY rate (ASDR) with Moran's I value. 
Multi-scale geographically weighted regression (MGWR) was to investigate the 
spatial distribution and scales of influencing factors in ASDR attributable to 
tobacco, with the regression coefficients for each influencing factor among 204 
countries.
RESULTS: Tobacco posed a challenge to global T2D health, particularly for the 
elderly and men from lower SDI regions. For women, mortality attributable to 
secondhand smoke was higher than smoking. A downward trend in age-standardized 
mortality rate (ASMR) of T2D attributable to tobacco was observed (AAPCs= -0.24; 
95% CI -0.30 to -0.18), while the ASDR increased globally since 1990 (AAPCs= 
0.19; 0.11 to 0.27). Oceania, Southern Sub-Saharan Africa, and Southeast Asia 
had the highest ASMRs and ASDRs, exceeding expectations based on the SDI. Also, 
"high-high" clusters were mainly observed in South Africa and Southeast Asian 
countries, which means a high-ASDR country is surrounded by high-ASDR 
neighborhoods in the above areas. According to MGWR model, smoking prevalence 
was the most sensitive influencing factor, with regression coefficients from 
0.15 to 1.80.
CONCLUSION: The tobacco-attributable burden of T2D should be considered as an 
important health issue, especially in low-middle and middle-SDI regions. 
Meanwhile, secondhand smoke posed a greater risk to women. Regional disparities 
existed, with hot spots mainly concentrated in South Africa and Southeast Asian 
countries.

Copyright © 2022 Bai, Shi, Ma, Yang, Yu and Cao.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2022.905367
PMCID: PMC9355706
PMID: 35937829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


454. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2022 Jul 22;13:924451. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2022.924451. eCollection 2022.

Determinants of quality of life among elderly patients with type 2 diabetes in 
northwest of iran: based on problem areas in diabetes.

Moghaddam HR(1), Sobhi E(2), Soola AH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Khalkhal University of Medical Sciences, 
Khalkhal, Iran.
(2)Students Research Committee School of Nursing and Midwifery, Ardabil 
University of Medical Sciences, Ardabil, Iran.
(3)Department of Nursing, School of Nursing and Midwifery, Ardabil University of 
Medical Sciences, Ardabil, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Diabetes is a metabolic disease characterized by chronic 
hyperglycemia, leading to damage to various organs of the patients and a 
reduction of their life expectancy and quality of life (QOL). The aim of this 
study was to explore the determinants of the QOL based on the Problem Areas in 
Diabetes (PAID).
METHODS: This cross-sectional study was carried out in an Iranian diabetic 
clinic in Ardabil. The PAID, the short form health survey (SF-12), and the 
sociodemographic questionnaire were all employed. Using the census sample 
method, 266 elderly people with type 2 diabetes from the lone diabetic clinic at 
Ardabil took part in this study. One-way ANOVA, t-test, one-sample 
Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, and multiple regression were used to analyze the data.
RESULTS: Data analysis showed that there was a statistically negative 
significant relationship between the QOL dimensions and the triple domains of 
PAID (p < 0.01). In the final model of the predictors of the QOL, treatment 
barriers, psychological distress related to diabetes management, the type of 
treatment, age, and the duration of diabetes were statistically significant 
predictors of the QOL dimensions (p>0.05).
CONCLUSION: Individual characteristics and factors connected to health services 
should be prioritized in any intervention program aimed at improving the QOL of 
elderly patients with diabetes. Psychological distress should be considered in 
addition to regular physician visits.

Copyright © 2022 Moghaddam, Sobhi and Soola.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2022.924451
PMCID: PMC9354538
PMID: 35937833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The reviewer HO declared a 
shared affiliation with the author(s) ES, AS to the handling editor at the time 
of review. The reviewer EM declared a shared affiliation with the author(s) HM 
to the handling editor at the time of review.


455. Plant Signal Behav. 2022 Dec 31;17(1):2106410. doi: 
10.1080/15592324.2022.2106410.

ROS and calcium oscillations are required for polarized root hair growth.

Zhang X(1)(2), Bian A(3), Li T(1), Ren L(4), Li L(5), Su Y(6), Zhang Q(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, State Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Germplasm 
Enhancement, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, P.R. China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, Institute of 
Botany, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, P.R. China.
(3)College of Computer Science, Sichuan University, Chengdu, P.R. China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Vegetation and Environmental Change, Institute of 
Botany, The Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, P.R. China.
(5)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for the Research and Utilization of Plant Resources, 
Institute of Botany, Jiangsu Province and Chinese Academy of Sciences (Nanjing 
Botanical Garden Mem. Sun Yat-Sen), Nanjing, P.R. China.
(6)College of Life Science and Technology, Guangxi University, Nanning, P.R. 
China.

Root hairs are filamentous extensions from epidermis of plant roots with growth 
limited to the apical dome. Cell expansion undergoes tightly regulated 
processes, including the coordination between cell wall loosening and cell wall 
crosslinking, to form the final shape and size. Tip-focused gradients and 
oscillations of reactive oxygen species (ROS) together with calcium ions (Ca2+) 
as indispensable regulated mechanisms control rapid and polarized elongation of 
root hair cells. ROS homeostasis mediated by plasma membrane-localized NADPH 
oxidases, known as respiratory burst oxidase homologues (RBOHs), and class III 
cell wall peroxidases (PRXs), modulates cell wall properties during cell 
expansion. The expression levels of RBOHC, an NADPH oxidase that produces ROS, 
and class III PRXs are directly upregulated by ROOT HAIR DEFECTIVE SIX-LIKE 4 
(RSL4), encoding a basic-helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor, to 
modulate root hair elongation. Cyclic nucleotide-gated channels (CNGCs), as 
central regulators of Ca2+ oscillations, also regulate root hair extension. 
Here, we review how the gradients and oscillations of Ca2+ and ROS interact to 
promote the expansion of root hair cells.

DOI: 10.1080/15592324.2022.2106410
PMCID: PMC9359386
PMID: 35938584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).


456. ASN Neuro. 2022 Jan-Dec;14:17590914221118502. doi:
10.1177/17590914221118502.

Multiple Sclerosis and Aging: The Dynamics of Demyelination and Remyelination.

Correale J(1), Ysrraelit MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Neurología, 58782Fleni, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous 
system (CNS) leading to demyelination and neurodegeneration. Life expectancy and 
age of onset in MS patients have been rising over the last decades, and previous 
studies have shown that age affects disease progression. Therefore, age appears 
as one of the most important factors in accumulating disability in MS patients. 
Indeed, the degeneration of oligodendrocytes (OGDs) and OGD precursors (OPCs) 
increases with age, in association with increased inflammatory activity of 
astrocytes and microglia. Similarly, age-related neuronal changes such as 
mitochondrial alterations, an increase in oxidative stress, and disrupted 
paranodal junctions can impact myelin integrity. Conversely, once myelination is 
complete, the long-term integrity of axons depends on OGD supply of energy. 
These alterations determine pathological myelin changes consisting of myelin 
outfolding, splitting, and accumulation of multilamellar fragments. Overall, 
these data demonstrate that old mature OGDs lose their ability to produce and 
maintain healthy myelin over time, to induce de novo myelination, and to remodel 
pre-existing myelinated axons that contribute to neural plasticity in the CNS. 
Furthermore, as observed in other tissues, aging induces a general decline in 
regenerative processes and, not surprisingly, progressively hinders 
remyelination in MS. In this context, this review will provide an overview of 
the current knowledge of age-related changes occurring in cells of the 
oligodendroglial lineage and how they impact myelin synthesis, axonal 
degeneration, and remyelination efficiency.

DOI: 10.1177/17590914221118502
PMCID: PMC9364177
PMID: 35938615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


457. Brain Behav. 2022 Sep;12(9):e2738. doi: 10.1002/brb3.2738. Epub 2022 Aug 8.

Cancer-related stroke: Exploring personalized therapy strategies.

Chen YJ(1), Dong RG(2), Zhang MM(1), Sheng C(1), Guo PF(1), Sun J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Rehabilitation, Xuzhou Central Hospital, Xuzhou 
city, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The Affiliated Hospital of Xuzhou Medical 
University, Xuzhou city, P.R. China.

BACKGROUND: Cancer and ischemic stroke are two common diseases that threaten 
human health and have become the main causes of death in the world. It is 
estimated that one-in-ten patients with ischemic stroke have concomitant cancer, 
and this incidence is expected to increase as improvements in medical technology 
extends the life expectancy of cancer patients.
DISCUSSION: Cancer-related stroke (CRS) refers to unexplained ischemic stroke in 
patients with active cancer that cannot be explained by current stroke 
mechanisms. Available evidence suggests that CRS accounts for 5-10% of embolic 
stroke of undetermined source (ESUS). Although the incidence of CRS is gradually 
increasing, its underlying pathogenesis remains unclear. Also, there is no 
consensus on acute treatment and secondary prevention of stroke.
CONCLUSION: In this review, we retrospectively analyzed the incidence, 
mechanisms of CRS, its potential as a new stroke subtype, options for acute 
treatment, secondary prevention strategies, and disease progression, with the 
aim of attempting to explore personalized therapy strategies.

© 2022 The Authors. Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/brb3.2738
PMCID: PMC9480895
PMID: 35938982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


458. Bull Environ Contam Toxicol. 2022 Dec;109(6):990-995. doi: 
10.1007/s00128-022-03587-3. Epub 2022 Aug 8.

Combined Effects of Warming and Imidacloprid on Survival, Reproduction and 
Population Growth of Brachionus calyciflorus (Rotifera).

Wen Y(1), Cao MM(1), Huang ZY(1), Xi YL(2).

Author information:
(1)Collaborative Innovation Center of Recovery and Reconstruction of Degraded 
Ecosystem in Wanjiang Basin co-funded by Anhui Province and Ministry of 
Education of the People's Republic of China, School of Ecology and Environment, 
Anhui Normal University, 241002, Wuhu, Anhui Province, China.
(2)Collaborative Innovation Center of Recovery and Reconstruction of Degraded 
Ecosystem in Wanjiang Basin co-funded by Anhui Province and Ministry of 
Education of the People's Republic of China, School of Ecology and Environment, 
Anhui Normal University, 241002, Wuhu, Anhui Province, China. ylxi1965@126.com.

Global warming and pesticide contamination are two stressors of high concern, 
but their combined effects on freshwater biota are controversial. This study 
investigated the combined effects of warming and imidacloprid (IMI) on survival 
(measured as life expectancy at hatching), reproduction (net reproductive rate), 
population growth (intrinsic rate of population increase) and sexual 
reproduction (proportion of sexual offspring) of Brachionus calyciflorus using a 
life table experiment. The results showed that compared with controls, 
treatments with IMI at 50-100 mg/L significantly decreased survival, 
reproduction and population growth of the rotifers at 20℃. The inhibiting effect 
at higher IMI concentrations on survival increased with increasing temperatures, 
but those on reproduction and population growth increased only when the 
temperature increased from 25℃ to 30℃. The proportion of sexual offspring 
decreased with increasing temperatures. When monitoring the ecological effects 
of pollutants, environmental temperature and the possible adaptation of rotifers 
to it should be taken into consideration.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00128-022-03587-3
PMID: 35939072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Recenti Prog Med. 2022 Sep;113(9):555-567. doi: 10.1701/3865.38517.

"No Mr Bond, we expected you to die": a medical and psychotherapeutic analysis 
of trauma depiction in the James Bond films.

Nicolson DJ(1), Johnson G(2), Tamborrini D(3).

Author information:
(1)Healthcare Improvement Scotland, Scottish Intercollegiate Guideline Network, 
Edinburgh; UK.
(2)Emergency Department, University Hospitals of Derby and Burton, NHS 
Foundation Trust, Derby, UK - School of Medicine, University of Nottingham, UK.
(3)Psychological Therapies, Edinburgh, UK.

The death of James Bond in No Time to Die draws attention to his constant 
exposure to life-threatening danger, and raises the question: should he have 
died earlier in the franchise? To answer this, we examined Bond's exposure to 
physical and psychological trauma in the 25 official Bond films, noting if 
portrayal was realistic, and if there were temporal trends in depiction of 
injuries. The frequency of trauma has increased over time with Craig's Bond 
suffering the most trauma, both physical and psychological. Environmental 
factors and falls were the most common cause of trauma; psychological distress 
tended to involve death, either of someone close, or at his own hands. He evaded 
death a mean of five times per film. Our analysis highlights a misrepresentation 
of trauma across the Bond films from 1962 to present date. The more recent Bond 
films, especially those of Craig, have revealed the physical and psychological 
vulnerability of Bond. James Bond has been exposed to an overwhelming level of 
physical trauma and psychological distress, yet improbably suffered few 
significant injuries, despite enduring repeated brushes with death. This 
contradicts Bond's own acknowledgement in Casino Royale that Double 0's have a 
very short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1701/3865.38517
PMID: 35939847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2023 Feb;21(2):507-519. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2022.07.028. Epub 2022 Aug 5.

Cost-Effectiveness of Earlier or More Intensive Colorectal Cancer Screening in 
Overweight and Obese Patients.

Yeoh A(1), Mannalithara A(1), Ladabaum U(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California. Electronic address: 
uri.ladabaum@stanford.edu.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Overweight and obese persons have not only elevated rates of 
colorectal cancer (CRC), but also higher competing mortality and healthcare 
spending. We examined the cost-effectiveness of intensified CRC screening in 
overweight and obese persons.
METHODS: We adapted our validated decision analytic model of CRC screening to 
compare screening starting at 45 or 40 years of age instead of at 50 years of 
age, or shortening screening intervals, in women and men with body mass index 
(BMI) ranging from normal to grade III obesity. Strategies included colonoscopy 
every 10 years (Colo10) or every 5 years (Colo5), or annual fecal immunochemical 
test.
RESULTS: Without screening, sex-specific total CRC deaths were similar for 
persons with overweight or obesity I-III, reflecting the counterbalancing of 
higher CRC risk by lower life expectancy as BMI rises. For all BMI and sex 
groups, Colo10 starting at 45 years of age or FIT starting at 40 years of age 
were cost-effective at a threshold of $100,000 per quality-adjusted life year 
gained. Colo10 starting at 40 years of age was cost-effective only for men with 
obesity II-III, at $93,300 and $80,400 per quality-adjusted life year gained, 
respectively. Shifting Colo10 to earlier starting ages was always preferred over 
Colo5 starting at later ages. Results were robust in sensitivity analysis, 
including varying all-cause mortality, complication, and BMI-specific CRC risks.
CONCLUSIONS: CRC screening starting at 45 years of age with colonoscopy, or at 
40 years of age with FIT, appears cost-effective for women and men across the 
range of BMI. In men with obesity II-III, who have the highest CRC but also 
all-cause mortality risks, colonoscopy starting at 40 years of age appears 
cost-effective. It remains to be decided whether BMI should be used as a single 
predictor or incorporated into a multivariable tool to tailor CRC screening.

Copyright © 2023 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2022.07.028
PMID: 35940514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Life Sci Space Res (Amst). 2022 Aug;34:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.lssr.2022.04.003.
 Epub 2022 Apr 18.

Phenotypic and transcriptional changes in Escherichia coli K12 in response to 
simulated microgravity on the EagleStat, a new 2D microgravity analog for 
bacterial studies.

Topolski C(1), Divo E(1), Li X(2), Hicks J(3), Chavez A(3), Castillo H(4).

Author information:
(1)Mechanical Engineering Department, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, 
Daytona Beach, FL, USA.
(2)Virginia Tech Hampton Roads Agriculture Research and Extension Center, 
Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, VA, USA.
(3)Human Factors and Behavioral Neurobiology Department, Embry-Riddle 
Aeronautical University, 1 Aerospace Blvd, COAS 401.03, Deland, Florida, 32724 
USA.
(4)Human Factors and Behavioral Neurobiology Department, Embry-Riddle 
Aeronautical University, 1 Aerospace Blvd, COAS 401.03, Deland, Florida, 32724 
USA. Electronic address: castilh2@erau.edu.

Understanding the impacts of microgravity on bacteria is vital for successful 
long duration space missions. In this environment, bacteria have been shown to 
become more virulent, more resistant to antibiotics and to regulate biofilm 
formation. Since the study of these phenomena under true microgravity is cost- 
and time challenging, the use of ground-based analogs might allow researchers to 
test hypotheses before planning and executing experiments in the space 
environment. We designed and developed a 2D clinostat with capabilities robust 
enough for bacterial studies to allow for multiple simultaneous replicates of 
treatment and control conditions, thus permitting the generation of growth 
curves, in a single run. We used computational fluid dynamics (CFD), biofilm 
growth measurement and differential gene expression analysis on Escherichia coli 
cultures grown to late exponential phase (24 h) to validate the system's ability 
to simulate microgravity conditions. The CFD model with a rotational speed of 
8 rpm projected cells growing homogeneously distributed along the tube, while 
the static condition showed the accumulation of the cells at the bottom of the 
container. These results were empirically validated with cultures on nutrient 
broth. Additionally, crystal violet assays showed that higher biofilm biomass 
grew on the internal walls of the gravity control tubes, compared to the 
simulated microgravity treatment. In contrast, when cells from both treatments 
were grown under standard conditions, those exposed to simulated microgravity 
formed significantly more biofilms than their gravity counterparts. Consistent 
with this result, transcriptome analysis showed the upregulation of several gene 
families related to biofilm formation and development such as cells adhesion, 
aggregation and regulation of cell motility, which provides a potential 
transcriptional explanation for the differential phenotype observed. Our results 
show that when operated under parameters for simulated microgravity, our 2D 
clinostat creates conditions that maintain a proportion of the cells in a 
constant free-falling state, consistent with the effect of microgravity. Also, 
the high-throughput nature of our instrument facilitates, significantly, 
bacterial experiments that require multiple sampling timepoints and small 
working volumes, making this new instrument extremely efficient.

Copyright © 2022 The Committee on Space Research (COSPAR). Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lssr.2022.04.003
PMID: 35940684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Semin Oncol. 2022 Jul 21:S0093-7754(22)00057-4. doi: 
10.1053/j.seminoncol.2022.07.003. Online ahead of print.

Comorbidity and life expectancy in shared decision making for lung cancer 
screening.

Bade B(1), Gwin M(2), Triplette M(3), Wiener RS(4), Crothers K(5).

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs (VA) Connecticut Healthcare System, Section of Pulmonary, 
Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine, West Haven, CT, United States of America 
(USA); Yale University School of Medicine, Section of Pulmonary, Critical Care, 
and Sleep Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA. Electronic address: brett.bade@yale.edu.
(2)University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)University of Washington School of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Critical 
Care and Sleep Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA; Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center, 
Clinical Research Division, Seattle, WA, USA.
(4)Center for Healthcare Organization & Implementation Research and Medical 
Service, VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA, USA; The Pulmonary Center, 
Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)University of Washington School of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Critical 
Care and Sleep Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA; VA Puget Sound Health Care System, 
Section of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA.

Shared decision making (SDM) is an important part of lung cancer screening (LCS) 
that includes discussing the risks and benefits of screening, potential 
outcomes, patient eligibility and willingness to participate, tobacco cessation, 
and tailoring a strategy to an individual patient. More than other cancer 
screening tests, eligibility for LCS is nuanced, incorporating the patient's age 
as well as tobacco use history and overall health status. Since comorbidities 
and multimorbidity (ie, 2 or more comorbidities) impact the risks and benefits 
of LCS, these topics are a fundamental part of decision-making. However, there 
is currently little evidence available to guide clinicians in addressing 
comorbidities and an individual's "appropriateness" for LCS during SDM visits. 
Therefore, this literature review investigates the impact of comorbidities and 
multimorbidity among patients undergoing LCS. Based on available evidence and 
guideline recommendations, we identify comorbidities that should be considered 
during SDM conversations and review best practices for navigating SDM 
conversations in the context of LCS. Three conditions are highlighted since they 
concomitantly portend higher risk of developing lung cancer, potentially 
increase risk of screening-related evaluation and treatment complications and 
can be associated with limited life expectancy: chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, and human immunodeficiency virus 
infection.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2022.07.003
PMID: 35940959


463. Spec Care Dentist. 2023 Mar;43(2):199-220. doi: 10.1111/scd.12762. Epub 2022
Aug  8.

Panoramic radiographs and dental patients with Down syndrome: A scoping review.

Scott AM(1), Reed WM(2), Ajwani S(3)(4), Parmenter TR(1).

Author information:
(1)Sydney Medical School, Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of 
Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(2)Medical Image Perception and Optimisation Group (MIOPeG), Discipline of 
Medical Imaging Science, Sydney School of Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine 
and Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(3)Oral Health Promotion & Oral Health Research, Sydney Dental Hospital and Oral 
Health Services, SLHD, Sydney, Australia.
(4)Sydney Dental School, Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of 
Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Life expectancy for people with Down syndrome (DS) has increased 
to 60 years, although poor oral health affects their quality of life. Panoramic 
radiographs (PRs) are usually well-tolerated by people with DS and can provide 
valuable diagnostic data for treatment planning and research. Methods A scoping 
review of peer-reviewed articles published between 1971and 2021 was conducted in 
accordance with the PRISMA extension for scoping reviews to determine the scope 
of use of PRs for people with DS.
RESULTS: 937 papers were screened, and 52 papers were included and charted into 
seven categories in this review. A high prevalence of tooth agenesis (TA) and 
other anomalies were reported in 45% of papers. Severe periodontal disease was 
considered characteristic of DS in the 1970s-80s and the benefit of 
time-consuming treatment was questioned. Since 2000 case reports illustrate that 
improved oral care, orthodontic treatment, and dental implants under local or 
general anaesthetic can improve the quality of life for people with DS.
CONCLUSION: PRs play an important role in the diagnosis of anomalies, 
periodontal disease, and implant planning for patients with DS. This review 
highlights the gaps in research of caries, pathology, TMJ, systemic disease 
indicators, and guidelines for dentists. Systematic PR viewing, with a knowledge 
of characteristic features of DS, will assist diagnosis of pathology and improve 
comprehensive dental care treatment planning for children and adults with DS.

© 2022 The Authors. Special Care in Dentistry published by Special Care 
Dentistry Association and Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/scd.12762
PMID: 35941085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Nat Ecol Evol. 2022 Oct;6(10):1423-1437. doi: 10.1038/s41559-022-01831-x.
Epub  2022 Aug 8.

Co-limitation towards lower latitudes shapes global forest diversity gradients.

Liang J(1), Gamarra JGP(2), Picard N(3), Zhou M(4), Pijanowski B(5), Jacobs 
DF(5), Reich PB(6)(7)(8), Crowther TW(9), Nabuurs GJ(10)(11), de-Miguel 
S(12)(13), Fang J(14), Woodall CW(15), Svenning JC(16)(17), Jucker T(18), Bastin 
JF(19), Wiser SK(20), Slik F(21), Hérault B(22)(23), Alberti G(24)(25)(26), 
Keppel G(27), Hengeveld GM(28)(29), Ibisch PL(30), Silva CA(31), Ter Steege 
H(32), Peri PL(33), Coomes DA(34), Searle EB(35), von Gadow K(36)(37)(38), 
Jaroszewicz B(39), Abbasi AO(4), Abegg M(40), Yao YCA(41), Aguirre-Gutiérrez 
J(42)(43), Zambrano AMA(44), Altman J(45)(46), Alvarez-Dávila E(47), 
Álvarez-González JG(48), Alves LF(49), Amani BHK(50), Amani CA(51), Ammer C(52), 
Ilondea BA(53), Antón-Fernández C(54), Avitabile V(55), Aymard GA(56), Azihou 
AF(57), Baard JA(58), Baker TR(59), Balazy R(60), Bastian ML(61)(62), Batumike 
R(63), Bauters M(64)(65), Beeckman H(66), Benu NMH(67), Bitariho R(68), Boeckx 
P(65), Bogaert J(69), Bongers F(11), Bouriaud O(70), Brancalion PHS(71), Brandl 
S(72), Brearley FQ(73), Briseno-Reyes J(74), Broadbent EN(31), Bruelheide 
H(75)(76), Bulte E(77), Catlin AC(78), Cazzolla Gatti R(79), César RG(71), Chen 
HYH(35), Chisholm C(80), Cienciala E(81)(82), Colletta GD(83), Corral-Rivas 
JJ(74), Cuchietti A(84), Cuni-Sanchez A(85)(86), Dar JA(87)(88)(89), Dayanandan 
S(90), de Haulleville T(66)(69), Decuyper M(11), Delabye S(91)(92), Derroire 
G(93), DeVries B(94), Diisi J(95), Do TV(96), Dolezal J(45)(97), Dourdain A(93), 
Durrheim GP(58), Obiang NLE(98), Ewango CEN(99), Eyre TJ(100), Fayle 
TM(92)(101), Feunang LFN(102), Finér L(103), Fischer M(104), Fridman J(105), 
Frizzera L(106), de Gasper AL(107), Gianelle D(106), Glick HB(108), 
Gonzalez-Elizondo MS(109), Gorenstein L(78), Habonayo R(110), Hardy OJ(111), 
Harris DJ(112), Hector A(113), Hemp A(114), Herold M(115), Hillers A(116)(117), 
Hubau W(66)(118), Ibanez T(119), Imai N(120), Imani G(121), Jagodzinski 
AM(122)(123), Janecek S(91), Johannsen VK(124), Joly CA(125), Jumbam 
B(126)(127), Kabelong BLPR(102), Kahsay GA(128), Karminov V(129), Kartawinata 
K(130), Kassi JN(131), Kearsley E(132), Kennard DK(133), Kepfer-Rojas S(124), 
Khan ML(134), Kigomo JN(135), Kim HS(136)(137)(138)(139), Klauberg C(31), 
Klomberg Y(91), Korjus H(140), Kothandaraman S(88)(89), Kraxner F(141), Kumar 
A(142), Kuswandi R(67), Lang M(140)(143), Lawes MJ(144), Leite RV(145), Lentner 
G(78), Lewis SL(59)(146), Libalah MB(102)(147), Lisingo J(148), López-Serrano 
PM(149), Lu H(150), Lukina NV(151), Lykke AM(152), Maicher V(91)(92)(153), 
Maitner BS(154), Marcon E(93)(155), Marshall AR(156)(157)(158), Martin EH(159), 
Martynenko O(129), Mbayu FM(99), Mbuvi MTE(160), Meave JA(161), Merow C(162), 
Miscicki S(163), Moreno VS(71), Morera A(13), Mukul SA(164), Müller 
JC(165)(166), Murdjoko A(167), Nava-Miranda MG(149), Ndive LE(168), Neldner 
VJ(100), Nevenic RV(169), Nforbelie LN(102), Ngoh ML(170)(171), N'Guessan 
AE(41), Ngugi MR(100), Ngute ASK(164)(172), Njila ENN(102), Nyako MC(102), 
Ochuodho TO(173), Oleksyn J(122), Paquette A(174), Parfenova EI(175), Park M(5), 
Parren M(11), Parthasarathy N(89), Pfautsch S(176), Phillips OL(59), Piedade 
MTF(177), Piotto D(178), Pollastrini M(179), Poorter L(11), Poulsen JR(153), 
Poulsen AD(112), Pretzsch H(180), Rodeghiero M(106)(181), Rolim SG(178), Rovero 
F(182)(183), Rutishauser E(184), Sagheb-Talebi K(185), Saikia P(186), Sainge 
MN(170)(187), Salas-Eljatib C(188)(189)(190), Salis A(2), Schall P(52), 
Schepaschenko D(141)(175)(191), Scherer-Lorenzen M(192), Schmid B(193), 
Schöngart J(177), Šebeň V(194), Sellan G(73)(195), Selvi F(179), Serra-Diaz 
JM(196), Sheil D(11)(197), Shvidenko AZ(141), Sist P(198), Souza AF(199), 
Stereńczak KJ(60), Sullivan MJP(73), Sundarapandian S(89), Svoboda M(46), Swaine 
MD(200), Targhetta N(177), Tchebakova N(175), Trethowan LA(201), Tropek 
R(91)(92), Mukendi JT(202), Umunay PM(203), Usoltsev VA(204), Vaglio Laurin 
G(205), Valentini R(205), Valladares F(206), van der Plas F(207), Vega-Nieva 
DJ(74), Verbeeck H(132), Viana H(208)(209), Vibrans AC(210), Vieira SA(211), 
Vleminckx J(212), Waite CE(213), Wang HF(214), Wasingya EK(99), Wekesa C(215), 
Westerlund B(105), Wittmann F(216), Wortel V(217), Zawiła-Niedźwiecki T(218), 
Zhang C(219), Zhao X(219), Zhu J(220), Zhu X(78), Zhu ZX(214), Zo-Bi IC(221), 
Hui C(222)(223).

Author information:
(1)Forest Advanced Computing and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (FACAI), 
Department of Forestry and Natural Resources, Purdue University, West Lafayette, 
IN, USA. albeca.liang@gmail.com.
(2)Forestry Division, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 
Rome, Italy.
(3)GIP ECOFOR, Paris, France.
(4)Forest Advanced Computing and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (FACAI), 
Department of Forestry and Natural Resources, Purdue University, West Lafayette, 
IN, USA.
(5)Department of Forestry and Natural Resources, Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, IN, USA.
(6)Institute for Global Change Biology, School for Environment and 
Sustainability, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(7)Department of Forest Resources, University of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN, USA.
(8)Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment, Western Sydney University, Penrith, 
New South Wales, Australia.
(9)Crowther Lab, Department of Environmental Systems Science, Institute of 
Integrative Biology, ETH Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland.
(10)Wageningen Environmental Research, Wageningen University and Research, 
Wageningen, Netherlands.
(11)Forest Ecology and Forest Management Group, Wageningen University and 
Research, Wageningen, Netherlands.
(12)Department of Crop and Forest Sciences, University of Lleida, Lleida, Spain.
(13)Joint Research Unit CTFC-Agrotecnio-CERCA, Solsona, Spain.
(14)Institute of Ecology and Key Laboratory for Earth Surface Processes of the 
Ministry of Education, College of Urban and Evironmental Sciences, Peking 
University, Beijing, China.
(15)Northern Research Station, USDA Forest Service, Durham, NH, USA.
(16)Center for Biodiversity Dynamics in a Changing World (BIOCHANGE), Department 
of Biology, Aarhus University, Aarhus C, Denmark.
(17)Section for Ecoinformatics and Biodiversity, Department of Biology, Aarhus 
University, Aarhus C, Denmark.
(18)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(19)TERRA Teaching and Research Centre, Gembloux Agro Bio-Tech, University of 
Liege, Gembloux, Belgium.
(20)Manaaki Whenua Landcare Research, Lincoln, New Zealand.
(21)Environmental and Life Sciences, Faculty of Science, Universiti Brunei 
Darussalam, Gadong, Brunei Darussalam.
(22)Centre de Coopération Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le 
Développement, Montpellier, France.
(23)INP-HB (Institut National Polytechnique Félix Houphouet-Boigny), University 
of Montpellier, Yamoussoukro, Ivory Coast.
(24)Department of Agricultural, Food, Environmental and Animal Sciences, 
University of Udine, Udine, Italy.
(25)Faculty of Science and Technology, Free University of Bolzano, Bolzano, 
Italy.
(26)Institute of Bioeconomy, CNR, Sesto, Italy.
(27)Natural and Built Environments Research Centre, School of Natural and Built 
Environments, University of South Australia, Adelaide, South Australia, 
Australia.
(28)Biometris, Wageningen University and Research, Wageningen, Netherlands.
(29)Wageningen University & Research, Forest and Nature Conservation Policy 
Group, Wageningen, Netherlands.
(30)Centre for Econics and Ecosystem Management, Eberswalde University for 
Sustainable Development, Eberswalde, Germany.
(31)School of Forest, Fisheries, and Geomatics Sciences, Institute of Food & 
Agricultural Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.
(32)Naturalis Biodiversity Center, Leiden, Netherlands.
(33)Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria (INTA), Santa Cruz, Argentina.
(34)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(35)Faculty of Natural Resources Management, Lakehead University, Thunder Bay, 
Ontario, Canada.
(36)University of Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.
(37)Beijing Forestry University, Beijing, China.
(38)University of Stellenbosch, Stellenbosch, South Africa.
(39)Białowieża Geobotanical Station, Faculty of Biology, University of Warsaw, 
Białowieża, Poland.
(40)Swiss National Forest Inventory/Swiss Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and 
Landscape Research WSL, Birmensdorf, Switzerland.
(41)UFR Biosciences, University Félix Houphouët-Boigny, Abidjan, Ivory Coast.
(42)Environmental Change Institute, School of Geography and the Environment, 
University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(43)Biodiversity Dynamics, Naturalis Biodiversity Center, Leiden, Netherlands.
(44)Center for Latin American Studies, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, 
USA.
(45)Institute of Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Trebon, 
Czech Republic.
(46)Faculty of Forestry and Wood Sciences, Czech University of Life Sciences in 
Prague, Praha-Suchdol, Czech Republic.
(47)Escuela ECAPMA, National Open University and Distance (Colombia) | UNAD, 
Bogotá, Colombia.
(48)Departamento de Ingeniería Agroforestal, Universidad de Santiago de 
Compostela, Lugo, Spain.
(49)Center for Tropical Research, Institute of the Environment and 
Sustainability, University of California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(50)Université Jean Lorougnon Guédé, Daloa, Ivory Coast.
(51)Université Officielle de Bukavu, Bukavu, Democratic Republic of Congo.
(52)Silviculture and Forest Ecology of the Temperate Zones, University of 
Göttingen, Goettingen, Germany.
(53)Institut National pour l'Etude et la Recherche Agronomiques, Kinshasa, 
Democratic Republic of Congo.
(54)Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy Research (NIBIO), Division of Forestry and 
Forest Resources, Ås, Norway.
(55)European Commission, Joint Research Centre, Ispra, Italy.
(56)Compensation International Progress S.A., Bogotá, Colombia.
(57)Laboratory of Applied Ecology, University of Abomey-Calavi, Cotonou, Benin.
(58)Scientific Services, South African National Parks, Knysna, South Africa.
(59)School of Geography, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(60)Department of Geomatics, Forest Research Institute, Sekocin Stary, Raszyn, 
Poland.
(61)Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Washington, DC, USA.
(62)Department of Evolutionary Anthropology, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
(63)Department of Environment, Universtité du Cinquantenaire de Lwiro, Bukavu, 
Democratic Republic of Congo.
(64)Department of Environment, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
(65)Department of Green Chemistry and Technology, Ghent University, Ghent, 
Belgium.
(66)Service of Wood Biology, Royal Museum for Central Africa, Tervuren, Belgium.
(67)Balai Penelitian dan Pengembangan Lingkungan Hidup dan Kehutanan, Manokwari, 
Indonesia.
(68)Institute of Tropical Forest Conservation, Mbarara University of Science and 
Technology, Mbarara, Uganda.
(69)Université de Liège, Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech, Gembloux, Belgium.
(70)Integrated Center for Research, Development and Innovation in Advanced 
Materials, Nanotechnologies, and Distributed Systems for Fabrication and Control 
(MANSiD), University Stefan cel Mare of Suceava, Suceava, Romania.
(71)Department of Forestry Sciences, 'Luiz de Queiroz' College of Agriculture, 
University of São Paulo, Piracicaba, Brazil.
(72)Bavarian State Institute of Forestry, Freising, Germany.
(73)Department of Natural Sciences, Manchester Metropolitan University, 
Manchester, UK.
(74)Facultad de Ciencias Forestales, Universidad Juárez del Estado de Durango, 
Durango, Mexico.
(75)Institute of Biology and Botanical Garden, Martin Luther University 
Halle-Wittenberg, Halle (Saale), Germany.
(76)German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv) 
Halle-Jena-Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(77)Development Economics Group, Wageningen University, Wageningen, Netherlands.
(78)Rosen Center for Advanced Computing (RCAC), Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, IN, USA.
(79)Department of Biological, Geological and Environmental Sciences (BiGeA), 
University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(80)Institute of Integrative Biology, ETH Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland.
(81)IFER - Institute of Forest Ecosystem Research, Jilove u Prahy, Czech 
Republic.
(82)Global Change Research Institute of the CAS, Brno, Czech Republic.
(83)Programa de Pós-graduação em Biologia Vegetal, Instituto de Biologia, 
Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Campinas CEP, Biologia, Brazil.
(84)Dirección Nacional de Bosques (DNB), Ministerio de Ambiente y Desarrollo 
Sostenible (MAyDS), Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(85)Department of International Environment and Development Studies (Noragric), 
Faculty of Landscape and Society, Norwegian University of Life Sciences (NMBU), 
Ås, Norway.
(86)Department of Environment and Geography, University of York, York, UK.
(87)Department of Environmental Science, School of Engineering and Sciences, SRM 
University-AP, Guntur, India.
(88)Department of Botany, Dr. Harisingh Gour Vishwavidyalaya (A Central 
University), Madhya Pradesh, India.
(89)Department of Ecology and Environmental Sciences, Pondicherry University, 
Puducherry, India.
(90)Centre for Structural and Functional Genomics & Quebec Centre for 
Biodiversity Science, Biology Department, Concordia University, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.
(91)Department of Ecology, Faculty of Science, Charles University, Prague, Czech 
Republic.
(92)Biology Centre of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Institute of Entomology, 
Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic.
(93)Cirad, UMR EcoFoG (AgroParistech, CNRS, Inrae, Université des Antilles, 
Université de la Guyane), Campus Agronomique, Kourou, French Guiana.
(94)Department of Geography, Environment and Geomatics, University of Guelph, 
Guelph, Ontario, Canada.
(95)National Forest Authority, Kampala, Uganda.
(96)Department of Silviculture Foundation, Silviculture Research Institute, 
Vietnamese Academy of Forest Sciences, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(97)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, University of South Bohemia, 
Bohemia, Czech Republic.
(98)IPHAMETRA, IRET, CENAREST, Libreville, Gabon.
(99)Faculté de Gestion de Ressources Naturelles Renouvelables, Université de 
Kisangani, Kisangani, Democratic Republic of Congo.
(100)Queensland Herbarium, Department of Environment and Science, Toowong, 
Queensland, Australia.
(101)School of Biological and Behavioural Sciences, Queen Mary University of 
London, London, UK.
(102)Department of Plant Biology, Faculty of Science, University of Yaoundé I, 
Yaoundé, Cameroon.
(103)Natural Resources Institute Finland, Joensuu, Finland.
(104)Institute of Plant Sciences, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(105)Department of Forest Resource Management, Swedish University of 
Agricultural Sciences, Umea, Sweden.
(106)Research and Innovation Centre, Fondazione Edmund Mach, San Michele 
all'Adige, Italy.
(107)Herbário Dr. Roberto Miguel Klein, Universidade Regional de Blumenau, 
Blumenau, Brazil.
(108)Glick Designs, LLC, Hadley, MA, USA.
(109)CIIDIR Durango, Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Durango, Mexico.
(110)Département des Sciences et Technologies de l'Environnement, Université du 
Burundi, Bujumbura, Burundi.
(111)Faculté des Sciences, Evolutionary Biology and Ecology Unit, Université 
Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.
(112)Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(113)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(114)Department of Plant Systematics, Bayreuth University, Bayreuth, Germany.
(115)Helmholtz GFZ German Research Centre for Geosciences, Section 1.4 Remote 
Sensing and Geoinformatics, Potsdam, Germany.
(116)Wild Chimpanzee Foundation, Liberia Representation, Monrovia, Liberia.
(117)Centre for Conservation Science, The Royal Society for the Protection of 
Birds, Sandy, UK.
(118)Department of Environment, Laboratory for Wood Technology (UGent-Woodlab), 
Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
(119)AMAP, University of Montpellier, CIRAD, CNRS, INRAE, IRD, Montpellier, 
France.
(120)Department of Forest Science, Tokyo University of Agriculture, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(121)Biology Department, Université Officielle de Bukavu, Bukavu, Democratic 
Republic of Congo.
(122)Institute of Dendrology, Polish Academy of Sciences, Kórnik, Poland.
(123)Poznan University of Life Sciences, Faculty of Forestry and Wood 
Technology, Department of Game Management and Forest Protection, Poznan, Poland.
(124)Department of Geosciences and Natural Resource Management, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(125)Plant Biology Department, Biology Institute, University of Campinas 
(UNICAMP), Campinas, Brazil.
(126)Department of Botany and Plant Pathology, Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, IN, USA.
(127)Institute of Agricultural Research for Development (IRAD), Nkolbisson, 
Ministry of Scientific Research and Innovation, Yaounde, Cameroon.
(128)Department of Food and Resource Economics, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(129)Forestry Faculty, Bauman Moscow State Technical University, Mytischi, 
Russia.
(130)Integrative Research Center, The Field Museum, Chicago, IL, USA.
(131)Labo Botanique, Université Félix Houphouët-Boigny, Abidjan, Ivory Coast.
(132)Computational and Applied Vegetation Ecology Lab, Ghent University, Ghent, 
Belgium.
(133)Department of Physical and Environmental Sciences, Colorado Mesa 
University, Grand Junction, CO, USA.
(134)Department of Botany, Dr. Harisingh Gour Vishwavidalaya (A Central 
University), Sagar, India.
(135)Kenya Forestry Research Institute, Department of Forest Resource 
Assessment, Nairobi, Kenya.
(136)Department of Forest Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic 
of Korea.
(137)Interdisciplinary Program in Agricultural and Forest Meteorology, Seoul 
National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(138)National Center for Agro Meteorology, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(139)Research Institute for Agriculture and Life Sciences, Seoul National 
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(140)Institute of Forestry and Engineering, Estonian University of Life 
Sciences, Tartu, Estonia.
(141)International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Laxenburg, Austria.
(142)Department of Geoinformatics, Central University of Jharkhand, Ranchi, 
India.
(143)Tartu Observatory, University of Tartu, Tõravere, Estonia.
(144)School of Life Sciences, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Pietermaritzburg, 
South Africa.
(145)Department of Forest Engineering, Federal University of Viçosa (UFV), 
Viçosa, Brazil.
(146)Department of Geography, University College London, London, UK.
(147)Plant Systematics and Ecology Laboratory (LaBosystE), Higher Teacher's 
Training College, University of Yaoundé I, Yaoundé, Cameroon.
(148)Laboratoire d'Écologie et Aménagement Forestier, Département d'Ecologie et 
de Gestion des Ressources Végétales, Université de Kisangani, Kisangani, 
Democratic Republic of Congo.
(149)Instituto de Silvicultura e Industria de la Madera, Universidad Juarez del 
Estado de Durango, Durango, Mexico.
(150)Faculty of Forestry, Qingdao Agricultural University, Qingdao, China.
(151)Center for Forest Ecology and Productivity RAS (CEPF RAS), Moscow, Russia.
(152)Department of Ecoscience, Aarhus University, Silkeborg, Denmark.
(153)Nicholas School of the Environment, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
(154)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, 
Tucson, AZ, USA.
(155)AgroParisTech, UMR AMAP, University of Montpellier, CIRAD, CNRS, INRAE, 
IRD, Montpellier, France.
(156)University of the Sunshine Coast, Sippy Downs, Queensland, Australia.
(157)University of York, York, UK.
(158)Flamingo Land Ltd., North Yorkshire, UK.
(159)Department of Wildlife Management, College of African Wildlife Management, 
Mweka, Tanzania.
(160)Kenya Forestry Research Institute, Headquarters, Nairobi, Kenya.
(161)Departamento de Ecología y Recursos Naturales, Facultad de Ciencias, 
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Mexico City, Mexico.
(162)Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT, 
USA.
(163)Department of Forest Management and Forest Economics, Warsaw University of 
Life Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.
(164)Tropical Forests and People Research Centre, University of the Sunshine 
Coast, Maroochydore DC, Queensland, Australia.
(165)Fieldstation Fabrikschleichach, Julius-Maximilians University Würzburg, 
Würzburg, Germany.
(166)Bavarian Forest Nationalpark, Grafenau, Germany.
(167)Fakultas Kehutanan, Universitas Papua, Jalan Gunung Salju Amban, Manokwari 
Papua Barat, Indonesia.
(168)Limbe Botanic Garden, Limbe, Cameroon.
(169)Institute of Forestry, Belgrade, Serbia.
(170)Tropical Plant Exploration Group (TroPEG), Buea, Cameroon.
(171)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Tennessee, 
Knoxville, TN, USA.
(172)Applied Biology and Ecology Research Unit, University of Dschang, Dschang, 
Cameroon.
(173)Department of Forestry and Natural Resources, University of Kentucky, 
Lexington, KY, USA.
(174)UQAM, Centre for Forest Research, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(175)V.N. Sukachev Forest Institute of FRC KSC SB RAS, Krasnoyarsk, Russia.
(176)Urban Management and Planning, School of Social Sciences, Western Sydney 
University, Penrith, New South Wales, Australia.
(177)Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazônia-INPA, Grupo Ecologia. 
Monitoramento e Uso Sustentável de Áreas Úmidas MAUA, Manaus, Brazil.
(178)Centro de Formação em Ciências Agroflorestais, Universidade Federal do Sul 
da Bahia, Ilhéus, Brazil.
(179)Department of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Forestry, University of 
Firenze, Firenze, Italy.
(180)Technical University of Munich, School of Life Sciences Weihenstephan, 
Chair of Forest Growth and Yield Science, Munich, Germany.
(181)Centro Agricoltura, Alimenti, Ambiente, University of Trento, San Michele 
all'Adige, Italy.
(182)Department of Biology, University of Florence, Sesto Fiorentino, Italy.
(183)MUSE-Museo delle Scienze, Trento, Italy.
(184)Infoflora c/o Botanical Garden of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(185)Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), 
Research Institute of Forests and Rangelands (RIFR), Tehran, Iran.
(186)Department of Environmental Sciences, Central University of Jharkhand, 
Ranchi, India.
(187)Institute of International Education Scholar Rescue Fund (IIE-SRF), One 
World Trade Center, New York, NY, USA.
(188)Centro de Modelación y Monitoreo de Ecosistemas, Facultad de Ciencias, 
Universidad Mayor, Santiago, Chile.
(189)Vicerrectoría de Investigación y Postgrado, Universidad de La Frontera, 
Temuco, Chile.
(190)Departamento de Silvicultura y Conservación de la Naturaleza, Universidad 
de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(191)Рeoples Friendship University of Russia (RUDN University), Moscow, Russia.
(192)University of Freiburg, Faculty of Biology, Freiburg, Germany.
(193)Institution with City, Department of Geography, University of Zurich, 
Zurich, Switzerland.
(194)National Forest Centre, Zvolen, Slovak Republic.
(195)CNRS-UMR LEEISA, Campus Agronomique, Kourou, French Guiana.
(196)Universite de Lorraine, AgroParisTech, INRA, Nancy, France.
(197)Center for International Forestry Research (CIFOR), Situ Gede, Bogor Barat, 
Indonesia.
(198)Cirad, University of Montpellier, Montpellier, France.
(199)Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Departamento de Ecologia, 
Natal, Brazil.
(200)School of Biological Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(201)Herbarium Kew, Royal Botanic Gardens Kew, London, UK.
(202)Faculté des Sciences Appliquées, Université de Mbujimayi, Mbujimayi, 
Democratic Republic of Congo.
(203)Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, New Haven, CT, USA.
(204)Ural State Forest Engineering University, Botanical Garden, Ural Branch of 
the Russian Academy of Sciences, Yekaterinburg, Russia.
(205)DIBAF Department, Tuscia University, Viterbo, Italy.
(206)LINCGlobal, MNCN, CSIC, Madrid, Spain.
(207)Plant Ecology and Nature Conservation Group, Wageningen University, AA 
Wageningen, Netherlands.
(208)Agricultural High School, ESAV, Polytechnic Institute of Viseu, IPV, Viseu, 
Portugal.
(209)Centre for the Research and Technology of Agro-Environmental and Biological 
Sciences, CITAB, UTAD, Quinta de Prados, Vila Real, Portugal.
(210)Department of Forest Engineering, Universidade Regional de Blumenau, 
Blumenau, Brazil.
(211)Nucleo de Estudos e Pesquisas Ambientais, Universidade Estadual de 
Campinas, Campinas (UNICAMP), SP, Campinas, Brazil.
(212)International Center for Tropical Botany, Department of Biological 
