Wuhan, 430030, Hubei, China. sxwang@tjh.tjmu.edu.cn.
(10)Key Laboratory of Cancer Invasion and Metastasis, Ministry of Education, 
Wuhan, 430030, Hubei, China. sxwang@tjh.tjmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Ovarian aging is characterized by a progressive decline in ovarian function. 
With the increase in life expectancy worldwide, ovarian aging has gradually 
become a key health problem among women. Over the years, various strategies have 
been developed to preserve fertility in women, while there are currently no 
clinical treatments to delay ovarian aging. Recently, advances in biomaterials 
and technologies, such as three-dimensional (3D) printing and microfluidics for 
the encapsulation of follicles and nanoparticles as delivery systems for drugs, 
have shown potential to be translational strategies for ovarian aging. This 
review introduces the research progress on the mechanisms underlying ovarian 
aging, and summarizes the current state of biomaterials in the evaluation and 
treatment of ovarian aging, including safety, potential applications, future 
directions and difficulties in translation.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12951-022-01566-8
PMCID: PMC9367160
PMID: 35953871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


503. Foods. 2022 Jul 27;11(15):2245. doi: 10.3390/foods11152245.

Active and Intelligent Packaging for Enhancing Modified Atmospheres and 
Monitoring Quality and Shelf Life of Packed Gilthead Seabream Fillets at 
Isothermal and Variable Temperature Conditions.

Katsouli M(1), Semenoglou I(1), Kotsiri M(2), Gogou E(1)(3), Tsironi T(1)(4), 
Taoukis P(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Food Chemistry and Technology, School of Chemical Engineering, 
National Technical University of Athens (NTUA), 15780 Athens, Greece.
(2)Institute of Marine Biology, Biotechnology and Aquaculture, Hellenic Centre 
for Marine Research, 46.7 Athens-Sounio Ave, 19013 Attiki, Greece.
(3)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, University of Thessaly, End N. 
Temponera, 43100 Karditsa, Greece.
(4)Laboratory of Food Process Engineering, Department of Food Science and Human 
Nutrition, Agricultural University of Athens, 11855 Athens, Greece.

The study investigated the effect of active modified atmosphere packaging (20% 
CO2-60% N2-20% O2) with CO2 emitters (MAP-PAD) and conventional MAP (MAP) on the 
quality and shelf-life of gilthead seabream fillets during chill storage, while 
the most appropriate enzymatic Time Temperature Integrators (TTI) were selected 
for monitoring their shelf-life at isothermal and variable temperature storage 
conditions (Teff = 4.8 °C). The concentration of CO2 and O2 in the headspace of 
the package, volatile compounds and of the microbial population were monitored 
during storage. The kinetic parameters for bacterial growth were estimated at 
0-10 °C using the Baranyi growth model. The MAP-PAD samples presented 
significantly lower microbial growth rates and longer lag phases compared to the 
MAP samples, leading to significant shelf-life extension: 2 days of extension at 
2.5 °C and 5 °C, while 50% extension at variable conditions (Teff = 4.8 °C). CO2 
emitters in the package improved the chemical freshness (K-values) and volatile 
compounds (characterizing freshness). The responses of different enzymatic TTI 
were modeled as the function of enzyme concentration, temperature and storage 
time. The activation energy (Ea) ranged from 97 to 148 kJ mol-1, allowing the 
selection of appropriate TTIs for the shelf-life monitoring of each fish 
product: LP-150U for the MAP and M-25U for the MAP-PAD samples. The validation 
experiment at Teff = 4.8 °C confirmed the applicability of Arrhenius-type 
models, as well as the use of TTIs as effective chill chain management tools 
during distribution and storage.

DOI: 10.3390/foods11152245
PMCID: PMC9367868
PMID: 35954012

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


504. Foods. 2022 Aug 6;11(15):2354. doi: 10.3390/foods11152354.

Optimization of Osmotic Dehydration of White Mushrooms by Response Surface 
Methodology for Shelf-Life Extension and Quality Improvement of Frozen 
End-Products.

Stavropoulou NA(1), Pavlidis VA(1), Giannakourou MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Chemistry, Analysis and Design of Food Processes, Department of 
Food Science and Technology, School of Food Sciences, University of West Attica, 
12243 Athens, Greece.

Button mushrooms (Agaricus bisporus), one of the most common edible mushroom 
species, are sensitive to damages because of the absence of a protective skin 
layer and have a limited shelf life. Osmotic dehydration (OD), mainly used as a 
pre-processing step of conventional preservation methods, has been proposed as 
an efficient, mild treatment to preserve mushroom superior quality. In this 
study, response surface methodology, coupled with a Box-Behnken design, was used 
to investigate the effect of glycerol concentration (30-50%), temperature (30-50 
°C), and duration of osmosis (0-180 min) in order to optimize the process prior 
to a subsequent freezing step. For each response, including mass transfer and 
selected quality indices, a second-order polynomial model was developed, and all 
process factors were found to have a significant impact. Based on the 
desirability approach and pre-set criteria, optimum operating conditions were 
estimated, namely osmosis at 50 °C, for 120 min, with a 42% glycerol solution, 
and the corresponding validation experiments were performed. Based on the error 
estimated between experimental and predicted values, polynomial equations were 
found to adequately predict parameter values. Based on a shelf-life test under 
frozen storage, OD-treated samples retained better quality attributes compared 
to their untreated counterparts.

DOI: 10.3390/foods11152354
PMCID: PMC9367866
PMID: 35954120

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


505. Cancers (Basel). 2022 Aug 6;14(15):3822. doi: 10.3390/cancers14153822.

Far-Red Fluorescent Murine Glioma Model for Accurate Assessment of Brain Tumor 
Progression.

Mishchenko TA(1)(2), Balalaeva IV(3), Klimenko MO(1), Brilkina AA(3), Peskova 
NN(3), Guryev EL(3), Krysko DV(1)(4)(5), Vedunova MV(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurotechnology, Institute of Biology and Biomedicine, 
Lobachevsky State University of Nizhny Novgorod, 23 Gagarin Ave., 603022 Nizhny 
Novgorod, Russia.
(2)Department of Basic and Medical Genetics, Institute of Biology and 
Biomedicine, Lobachevsky State University of Nizhny Novgorod, 23 Gagarin Ave., 
603022 Nizhny Novgorod, Russia.
(3)Department of Biophysics, Institute of Biology and Biomedicine, Lobachevsky 
State University of Nizhny Novgorod, 23 Gagarin Ave., 603022 Nizhny Novgorod, 
Russia.
(4)Cell Death Investigation and Therapy Laboratory (CDIT), Anatomy and 
Embryology Unit, Department of Human Structure and Repair, Ghent University, C. 
Heymanslaan 10, Building B3, 4th Floor, 9000 Ghent, Belgium.
(5)Cancer Research Institute Ghent, 9000 Ghent, Belgium.

Glioma is the most common brain tumor, for which no significant improvement in 
life expectancy and quality of life is yet possible. The creation of stable 
fluorescent glioma cell lines is a promising tool for in-depth studies of the 
molecular mechanisms of glioma initialization and pathogenesis, as well as for 
the development of new anti-cancer strategies. Herein, a new fluorescent glioma 
GL261-kat cell line stably expressing a far-red fluorescent protein (TurboFP635; 
Katushka) was generated and characterized, and then validated in a mouse 
orthotopic glioma model. By using epi-fluorescence imaging, we detect the 
fluorescent glioma GL261-kat cells in mice starting from day 14 after the 
inoculation of glioma cells, and the fluorescence signal intensity increases as 
the glioma progresses. Tumor growth is confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging 
and histology. A gradual development of neurological deficit and behavioral 
alterations in mice is observed during glioma progression. In conclusion, our 
results demonstrate the significance and feasibility of using the novel glioma 
GL261-kat cell line as a model of glioma biology, which can be used to study the 
initialization of glioma and monitor its growth by lifetime non-invasive 
tracking of glioma cells, with the prospect of monitoring the response to 
anti-cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14153822
PMCID: PMC9367351
PMID: 35954485

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


506. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Jul 28;19(15):9207. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19159207.

Mapping Evidence on Management of Cervical Cancer in Sub-Saharan Africa: Scoping 
Review.

Zibako P(1), Hlongwa M(1)(2), Tsikai N(3), Manyame S(3), Ginindza TG(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Public Health, School of Nursing and Public Health, University 
of KwaZulu-Natal, Durban 4000, South Africa.
(2)Burden of Disease Research Unit, South African Medical Research Council, Cape 
Town 7505, South Africa.
(3)College of Health Sciences, University of Zimbabwe, MT Pleasant, Harare P.O. 
Box MP167, Zimbabwe.
(4)Cancer & Infectious Diseases Epidemiology Research Unit (CIDERU), College of 
Health Sciences, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Durban 4000, South Africa.

Cervical cancer (CC) is the most common viral infection of the reproductive 
tract and in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), its morbidity and mortality rates are 
high. The aim of this review was to map evidence on CC management in SSA. The 
scoping review was conducted in accordance with Arksey and O'Malley's scoping 
review framework. The review included studies on different aspects of CC 
management. The review was also done following the steps and guidelines outlined 
in the PRISMA-Extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) checklist. The 
following databases were searched: PubMed, EBSCOhost, Scopus and Cochrane 
Database of Systematic Review. A total of 1121 studies were retrieved and 49 
which were eligible for data extraction were included in the review. The studies 
were classifiable in 5 groups: 14 (28.57%) were on barriers to CC screening, 10 
(20.41%) on factors associated with late-stage presentation at diagnosis, 11 
(22.45%) on status of radiotherapy, 4 (8.20%) on status of chemotherapy and 10 
(20.41%) on factors associated with high HPV coverage. High HPV vaccine coverage 
can be achieved using the class school-based strategy with opt-out consent form 
process. Barriers to CC screening uptake included lack of knowledge and 
awareness and unavailability of screening services. The reasons for late-stage 
presentation at diagnosis were unavailability of screening services, delaying 
whilst using complementary and alternative medicines and poor referral systems. 
The challenges in chemotherapy included unavailability and affordability, low 
survival rates, treatment interruption due to stock-outs as well as late 
presentation. Major challenges on radiotherapy were unavailability of 
radiotherapy, treatment interruption due to financial constraints, and machine 
breakdown and low quality of life. A gap in understanding the status of CC 
management in SSA has been revealed by the study implying that, without full 
knowledge of the extent of CC management, the challenges and opportunities, it 
will be difficult to reduce infection, improve treatment and palliative care. 
Research projects assessing knowledge, attitude and practice of those in 
immediate care of girls at vaccination age, situational analysis with health 
professionals and views of patients themselves is important to guide CC 
management practice.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19159207
PMCID: PMC9367747
PMID: 35954564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


507. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Aug 1;19(15):9440. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19159440.

Policy Development on Upskilling/Reskilling Older Population Care Staff in 
China.

Hung J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, The University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB3 0SZ, UK.

Mainland China has been concerned about the national growth rate of older adults 
aged 60 or above. The rapid growth of the cohort of older adults will 
significantly burden the Chinese healthcare system as they are at higher risk of 
suffering from chronic illnesses and functional disabilities. In geriatrics, 
aged populations often endure a wide range of diseases, dysfunctions, and 
cognitive impairment, so the corresponding healthcare services needed for them 
are substantial. The rise in the older adults' life expectancy has compounded 
the burden of the healthcare system in mainland China in the long term. In this 
narrative essay, it is important to discuss how the state should assume a higher 
share of relevant responsibilities, by assessing how Chinese policymaking has 
been transformed to better satisfy the older population's care and healthcare 
needs in mainland China. It is also pivotal to focus on analysing relevant 
Chinese policy development within the most recent dozen years to address how 
China's state and local governments have been progressing in promptly providing 
health and older population care services to older Chinese adults. Because of 
the supply shortage and low quality of older population caregivers and 
alternative professionals, it is necessary to discuss and highlight the need to 
reskill or upskill relevant caregivers. As the trend of rural-to-urban labour 
migration continues, working adults of rural origins increasingly cannot provide 
domestic older population care, and human investment in training caregivers is 
an urgent task of Chinese policymaking. Therefore, how Chinese policymaking 
encourages upskilling or reskilling relevant caregivers is examined in this 
narrative essay.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19159440
PMCID: PMC9368009
PMID: 35954791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


508. Materials (Basel). 2022 Aug 6;15(15):5425. doi: 10.3390/ma15155425.

Impact of the Heat Treatment Duration on Color and Selected Mechanical and 
Chemical Properties of Scots Pine Wood.

Piernik M(1), Woźniak M(2), Pinkowski G(1), Szentner K(2), Ratajczak I(2), 
Krauss A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Woodworking Machines and Fundamentals of Machine Design, 
Faculty of Forestry and Wood Technology, Poznań University of Life Sciences, 
Wojska Polskiego 38/42, 60-637 Poznań, Poland.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Forestry and Wood Technology, Poznań 
University of Life Sciences, Wojska Polskiego 75, 60-625 Poznań, Poland.

The aim of this study was to assess the effect of the duration of heat treatment 
on changes in the color, as well as the chemical and mechanical properties of 
Scots pine sapwood. An important element of the research was to obtain the 
assumed temperature in the entire volume of samples. Quantitative changes in 
color and its components were recorded, while mechanical properties were 
determined in tests of compressive strength parallel and perpendicular to the 
grain, longitudinal tensile strength and modulus of elasticity and impact 
strength. The novelty of the research was to determine the above-mentioned 
parameters for twin samples with identical moisture contents. Chemical analyses 
were conducted on heat-treated wood that was subjected to heat treatment at 220 
°C for a period from 1 to 8 h. Extension of the heat treatment duration resulted 
in the increasing darkening of the wood, as well as a further reduction in the 
impact strength and tensile strength parallel to the grain by approx. 40 and 
50%, respectively, compared to the control wood, but also compared to 
heat-treated wood for a shorter treatment duration. The heat treatment of wood 
caused changes in the contents of the wood components, as well as the elemental 
composition in the heat-treated wood, compared to the control pine. The changes 
in the structure of the heat-treated wood were confirmed by the attenuated total 
reflectance Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR). Observed 
quantitative changes in the main wood components, its structural changes, as 
well as wood decomposition and increased crystallinity of cellulose explain 
significant changes in both the mechanical properties and the color of 
heat-treated wood.

DOI: 10.3390/ma15155425
PMCID: PMC9369803
PMID: 35955359

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


509. J Clin Med. 2022 Jul 30;11(15):4452. doi: 10.3390/jcm11154452.

Treatment Options in AF Patients with Cancer; Focus on Catheter Ablation.

Garibaldi S(1), Chianca M(2), Fabiani I(1), Emdin M(1)(2), Piacenti M(1), 
Passino C(1)(2), Aimo A(2), Fedele A(3), Cipolla CM(3), Cardinale DM(3).

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Division, Fondazione Toscana Gabriele Monasterio, 56124 Pisa, 
Italy.
(2)Health Science Interdisciplinary Center, Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna, 56127 
Pisa, Italy.
(3)Cardioncology Unit, Cardioncology and Second Opinion Division, European 
Institute of Oncology, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico, 
20141 Milan, Italy.

Longer life expectancy along with advancements in cancer and atrial fibrillation 
(AF) therapies and treatment strategies have led to an increase in the number of 
individuals with both diseases. As a result, the complicated management of these 
patients has become crucial, necessitating individualised treatment that 
considers the bi-directional relationship between these two diseases. On the one 
hand, giving appropriate pharmaceutical therapy is exceptionally difficult, 
considering the recognised thromboembolic risk posed by AF and malignancy, as 
well as the haemorrhagic risk posed by cancer. The alternative pulmonary vein 
isolation (PVI) ablation, on the other hand, has been inadequately explored in 
the cancer patient population; there is yet inadequate data to allow the 
clinician to unambiguously select patients that can undertake this therapeutic 
intervention. The goal of this review is to compile the most valuable data and 
supporting evidence about the characteristics, care, and therapy of cancer 
patients with AF. Specifically, we will evaluate the pharmaceutical options for 
a proper anticoagulant therapy, as well as the feasibility and safety of PVI in 
this population.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11154452
PMCID: PMC9369260
PMID: 35956068

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


510. Polymers (Basel). 2022 Jul 28;14(15):3051. doi: 10.3390/polym14153051.

Numerical Simulation of the Bearing Capacity of Variotropic Short Concrete Beams 
Reinforced with Polymer Composite Reinforcing Bars.

Beskopylny AN(1), Meskhi B(2), Stel'makh SA(3), Shcherban' EM(3), Mailyan LR(4), 
Veremeenko A(4), Akopyan V(3), Shilov AV(5), Chernil'nik A(6), Beskopylny N(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Transport Systems, Faculty of Roads and Transport Systems, Don 
State Technical University, Gagarin, 1, 344003 Rostov-on-Don, Russia.
(2)Department of Life Safety and Environmental Protection, Faculty of Life 
Safety and Environmental Engineering, Don State Technical University, Gagarin, 
1, 344003 Rostov-on-Don, Russia.
(3)Department of Engineering Geology, Bases, and Foundations, Don State 
Technical University, 344003 Rostov-on-Don, Russia.
(4)Department of Roads, Faculty of Roads and Transport Systems, Don State 
Technical University, 344003 Rostov-on-Don, Russia.
(5)Department of Reinforced Concrete Structures, Faculty of Industrial and Civil 
Engineering, Don State Technical University, Gagarin, 1, 344003 Rostov-on-Don, 
Russia.
(6)Department of Unique Buildings and Constructions Engineering, Don State 
Technical University, Gagarin Sq. 1, 344003 Rostov-on-Don, Russia.
(7)Department of Hardware and Software Engineering, Don State Technical 
University, Gagarin Sq. 1, 344003 Rostov-on-Don, Russia.

One of the disadvantages of reinforced concrete is the large weight of 
structures due to the steel reinforcement. A way to overcome this issue and 
develop new types of reinforcing elements is by using polymer composite 
reinforcement, which can successfully compensate for the shortcomings of steel 
reinforcement. Additionally, a promising direction is the creation of 
variotropic (transversely isotropic) building elements. The purpose of this work 
was to numerically analyze improved short bending concrete elements with a 
variotropic structure reinforced with polymer composite rods and to determine 
the prospects for the further extension of the results obtained for long-span 
structures. Numerical models of beams of a transversally isotropic structure 
with various types of reinforcement have been developed in a spatially and 
physically nonlinear formulation in ANSYS software considering cracking and 
crashing. It is shown that, in combination with a stronger layer of the 
compressed zone of the beam, carbon composite reinforcement has advantages and 
provides a greater bearing capacity than glass or basalt composite. It has been 
proven that the use of the integral characteristics of concrete and the 
deflections of the elements are greater than those when using the differential 
characteristics of concrete along the height of the section (up to 5%). The 
zones of the initiation and propagation of cracks for different polymer 
composite reinforcements are determined. An assessment of the bearing capacity 
of the beam is given. A significant (up to 146%) increase in the forces in the 
reinforcing bars and a decrease in tensile stresses (up to 210-230%) were 
established during the physically non-linear operation of the concrete material. 
The effect of a clear redistribution of stresses is in favor of elements with a 
variotropic cross section in height.

DOI: 10.3390/polym14153051
PMCID: PMC9370235
PMID: 35956566

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


511. Nanomaterials (Basel). 2022 Aug 8;12(15):2723. doi: 10.3390/nano12152723.

Mineral and Ester Nanofluids as Dielectric Cooling Liquid for Power 
Transformers.

Olmo C(1), Méndez C(1), Quintanilla PJ(1), Ortiz F(1), Renedo CJ(1), Ortiz A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical and Energy Engineering, Universidad de Cantabria, 
39005 Santander, Spain.

Amidst the new techniques facing the improvement of cooling and insulating 
efficiency and the design of electric transformers, constrained by the current 
technologies, one of the more promising is the substitution of traditional 
dielectric oils for nanofluids. Research on nanofluids for their application in 
transformers as a coolant and dielectric medium have been performed during the 
last two decades and continue today. This review tries to collect and analyze 
the available information in this field and to offer it already dissected to 
researchers, focusing on the preparation methods and how nanoparticles affect 
the main properties of the base fluids. Here we also addressed the influence of 
different parameters as particle characteristics or environmental conditions in 
nanofluids performance, the evolution with time of the measured properties, or 
the neighboring relationship of nanofluids with other transformer components. In 
this sense, the most reviewed articles reflect enhancements of thermal 
conductivity or dielectric strength, as well as an improvement of time evolution 
of these properties, with respect to those that are found in base fluids, and, 
also, a better interaction between these nanofluids and dielectric cellulosics. 
Thus, the use of dielectric nanofluids in transformers may allow these machines 
to work safer or over their design parameters, reducing the risk of failure of 
the electrical networks and enhancing their life expectancy. Nevertheless, these 
advantages will not be useful unless a proper stability of nanofluids is 
ensured, which is achieved in a small part of revised articles. A compendium of 
the preparation methodology with this aim is proposed, to be checked in future 
works.

DOI: 10.3390/nano12152723
PMCID: PMC9370386
PMID: 35957155

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


512. Sensors (Basel). 2022 Aug 7;22(15):5894. doi: 10.3390/s22155894.

Distributed Agent-Based Orchestrator Model for Fog Computing.

Liutkevičius A(1), Morkevičius N(1), Venčkauskas A(1), Toldinas J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, Kaunas University of Technology, 44249 
Kaunas, Lithuania.

Fog computing is an extension of cloud computing that provides computing 
services closer to user end-devices at the network edge. One of the challenging 
topics in fog networks is the placement of tasks on fog nodes to obtain the best 
performance and resource usage. The process of mapping tasks for 
resource-constrained devices is known as the service or fog application 
placement problem (SPP, FAPP). The highly dynamic fog infrastructures with 
mobile user end-devices and constantly changing fog nodes resources (e.g., 
battery life, security level) require distributed/decentralized service 
placement (orchestration) algorithms to ensure better resilience, scalability, 
and optimal real-time performance. However, recently proposed service placement 
algorithms rarely support user end-device mobility, constantly changing the 
resource availability of fog nodes and the ability to recover from fog node 
failures at the same time. In this article, we propose a distributed agent-based 
orchestrator model capable of flexible service provisioning in a dynamic fog 
computing environment by considering the constraints on the central processing 
unit (CPU), memory, battery level, and security level of fog nodes. Distributing 
the decision-making to multiple orchestrator fog nodes instead of relying on the 
mapping of a single central entity helps to spread the load and increase 
scalability and, most importantly, resilience. The prototype system based on the 
proposed orchestrator model was implemented and tested with real hardware. The 
results show that the proposed model is efficient in terms of response latency 
and computational overhead, which are minimal compared to the placement 
algorithm itself. The research confirms that the proposed orchestrator approach 
is suitable for various fog network applications when scalability, mobility, and 
fault tolerance must be guaranteed.

DOI: 10.3390/s22155894
PMCID: PMC9371437
PMID: 35957450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


513. ESC Heart Fail. 2022 Dec;9(6):3931-3941. doi: 10.1002/ehf2.14103. Epub 2022
Aug  11.

Ten year age- and sex-specific temporal trends in incidence and prevalence of 
heart failure in Västra Götaland, Sweden.

Wideqvist M(1)(2), Rosengren A(1)(3), Schaufelberger M(1)(3), Pivodic A(4)(5), 
Fu M(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Institute of Medicine, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(3)Department of Medicine, Geriatrics and Emergency Medicine, Sahlgrenska 
University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(4)Statistiska konsultgruppen, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.

AIM: Heart failure (HF) is predominantly a disorder of the elderly. During the 
last decades, cardiovascular primary and secondary prevention and life 
expectancy have improved. Accordingly, trends in incidence and prevalence of HF 
are dynamic and may differ over time by age and gender. We aim to investigate 
the overall and age-specific and sex-specific trends, in incidence, prevalence, 
and the proportion with co-morbidities of HF over a 10 year period in Region 
Västra Götaland, Sweden.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The VEGA database is an administrative database of all 
patients managed in hospital and/or in primary care (private and public) living 
in Region Västra Götaland. All patients with a main or contributory diagnosis of 
HF (I50) aged 18 years or older between 2008 and 2017 were included. Incidence 
and prevalence of HF were calculated based on the entire adult population of 
Region Västra Götaland. The adult population in Region Västra Götaland increased 
by 8% from 2008 (n = 1 234 609) to 2017 (n = 1 338 906). Half the population was 
female and 69% < 60 years of age, both constant over time. In total, 62 228 
incident cases of HF were identified. In 2008, we identified 6464 cases, mean 
age 78.7 (11.5) years, and 49.8% (n = 3222) men, while in 2017, 5727 cases were 
identified, mean age 78.3 (11.8) years, and 52.5% (n = 3006) men. The overall 
yearly incidence rate of HF decreased by 3%, RR 0.97 (95% CI 0.96-0.97) per 
year, P < 0.0001, mainly driven by the age categories >75 years. A constantly 
higher incidence of HF was seen for men compared with women in all age 
categories, RR 1.46 (95% CI 1.44-1.49), P < 0.0001. During the same period, we 
observed a steady increase in overall prevalence from 1.8% for women and 2.0% 
for men in 2008, to 2.4% in women and 2.8% in men in 2017, particularly in those 
>85 years of age who had a prevalence of 16.5% (men) and 14.6% (women) in 2008 
and 23.5% (men) and 21.5% (women) in 2017. The overall 1 year mortality rate was 
22.7%. When adjusted for age, women had a lower risk for death by 13% compared 
with men [hazard ratio 0.87 (95% CI 0.84-0.90, P < 0.0001)].
CONCLUSION: We saw a decrease in overall incidence, but incidence of HF remains 
high, particularly in the oldest age groups. Prevalence of HF keeps increasing 
particularly in those aged >85 years. Our findings emphasize the need for 
implementation of effective preventive strategies for HF.

© 2022 The Authors. ESC Heart Failure published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on 
behalf of European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1002/ehf2.14103
PMCID: PMC9773728
PMID: 35957620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Maria Wideqvist reports unrelated very modest 
consulting fees from Bayer and Boeringer Ingelheim. No other conflict of 
interest, or relationship with the industry, was declared. Annika Rosengren has 
no conflict of interest. Maria Schaufelberger reports unrelated modest 
consulting fee from Bayer, Boeringer Ingelheim, Novartis, and AstraZeneca. No 
other conflict of interest, or relationship with the industry, was declared. 
Aldina Pivodic has no conflict of interest. Michael Fu reports unrelated modest 
consulting fee from Novartis, Boeringer Ingelheim, Vifor Pharma, and 
AstraZeneca. No other conflict of interest, or relationship with the industry, 
was declared.


514. EClinicalMedicine. 2022 Aug 3;52:101600. doi: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2022.101600. 
eCollection 2022 Oct.

Determinants of long-term survival in late HIV presenters: The prospective 
PISCIS cohort study.

Martin-Iguacel R(1)(2), Reyes-Urueña J(1), Bruguera A(1), Aceitón J(1), Díaz 
Y(1), Moreno-Fornés S(1), Domingo P(3), Burgos-Cibrian J(4), Tiraboschi JM(5), 
Johansen IS(2), Álvarez H(6), Miró JM(7)(8), Casabona J(1)(9)(10)(11), Llibre 
JM(12); PISCIS study group.

Author information:
(1)Centre of Epidemiological Studies of HIV/AIDS and STI of Catalonia 
(CEEISCAT), Health Department, Generalitat de Catalunya, Badalona, Spain.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, Odense University Hospital, Odense, 
Denmark.
(3)Infectious Diseases Unit, Hospital Universitari de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Department of Infectious Diseases, Hospital Universitari de la Vall d'Hebron, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Hospital 
Universitari de Bellvitge, Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Infectious Diseases Unit, University Hospital of Ferrol, Spain.
(7)Hospital Clínic-Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer, 
University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(8)CIBERINFEC, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(9)Department of Paediatrics, Obstetrics and Gynecology and Preventive Medicine, 
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Badalona, Spain.
(10)Fundació Institut D'investigació En Ciències De La Salut Germans Trias I 
Pujol (IGTP), Badalona, Spain.
(11)Spanish Consortium for Research on Epidemiology and Public Health 
(CIBERESP), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(12)Infectious Diseases Department and Fight Infections Foundation, University 
Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol, Badalona, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Late HIV diagnosis (i.e CD4≤350 cells/µL) is associated with poorer 
outcomes. However, determinants of long-term mortality and factors influencing 
immune recovery within the first years after antiretroviral treatment (ART) 
initiation are poorly defined.
METHODS: From PISCIS cohort, we included all HIV-positive adults, two-year 
survivors after initiating ART between 2005-2019. The primary outcome was 
all-cause mortality according to the two-year CD4 count. We used Poisson 
regression. The secondary outcome was incomplete immune recovery (i.e., two-year 
CD4<500 cells/µL). We used logistic regression and propensity score matching.
FINDINGS: We included 2,719 participants (16593·1 person-years): 1441 (53%) late 
presenters (LP) and 1278 non-LP (1145 non-LP with two-year CD4 count >500 
cells/µL, reference population). Overall, 113 patients (4·2%) died. Mortality 
was higher among LP with two-year CD4 count 200-500 cells/µL (aMRR 
1·95[95%CI:1·06-3·61]) or <200 cells/µL (aMRR 4·59[2·25-9·37]).Conversely, no 
differences were observed in participants with two-year CD4 counts >500 
cells/µL, regardless of being initially LP or non-LP (aMRR 1·05[0·50-2·21]). 
Mortality rates within each two-year CD4 strata were not affected by the initial 
CD4 count at ART initiation (test-interaction, p = 0·48). The stronger factor 
influencing immune recovery was the CD4 count at ART initiation. First-line 
integrase-inhibitor-(INSTI)-based regimens were associated with reduced 
mortality compared to other regimens (aMRR 0·54[0·31-0·93]) and reduced risk of 
incomplete immune recovery in LP (aOR 0·70[0·52-0·95]).
INTERPRETATION: Two-year immune recovery is a good early predictor of long-term 
mortality in LP after surviving the first high-risk 2 years. Nearly half 
experienced a favorable immune recovery with a life expectancy similar to 
non-LP. INSTI-based regimens were associated with higher rates of successful 
immune recovery and better survival compared to non-INSTI regimens.
FUNDING: Southern-Denmark University, Danish AIDS-foundation, and Region of 
Southern Denmark.

© 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2022.101600
PMCID: PMC9358427
PMID: 35958520

Conflict of interest statement: All authors have completed the ICMJE uniform 
disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf and declare: no support from 
any organization for the submitted work; no financial relationships with any 
organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work in the previous 
three years; no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work. RMI has received consulting honoraria and/or 
research grants from GSK, MSD, and Lundbeck, outside the submitted work. RMI has 
received payment for travel and congress assistance from MSD, outside the 
present work. JMM has received consulting honoraria and/or research grants from 
AbbVie, Angelini, Contrafect, Cubist, Genentech, Gilead Sciences, Jansen, 
Lysovant, Medtronic, MSD, Novartis, Pfizer, and ViiV Healthcare, outside the 
submitted work. JML has received payments or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations or speaker's bureaus from Janssen-Cilag, Gilead Sciences, and ViiV 
Healthcare, outside of the present work.


515. Cureus. 2022 Jul 9;14(7):e26688. doi: 10.7759/cureus.26688. eCollection 2022
 Jul.

Bone Mineral Density, Serum Calcium, and Vitamin D Levels in Adult Thalassemia 
Major Patients: Experience From a Single Center in Eastern India.

Santra S(1), Sharma K(2), Dash I(3), Mondal S(4), Mondal H(5).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacology, College of Medicine and JNM Hospital, Kalyani, IND.
(2)Pharmacology, Government Medical College, Haldwani, IND.
(3)Biochemistry, Saheed Laxman Nayak Medical College and Hospital, Koraput, IND.
(4)Physiology, Raiganj Government Medical College And Hospital, Raiganj, IND.
(5)Physiology, Saheed Laxman Nayak Medical College and Hospital, Koraput, IND.

Background and objective Patients suffering from thalassemia major are at higher 
risk of osteoporosis. Due to their decreased life expectancy, the number of 
adult patients is low. However, their bone health is rarely checked in 
developing countries like India. There is no data available in the literature on 
the bone mineral density (BMD) of adult (aged ≥18 years) thalassemia major 
patients in eastern India. In this study, we aimed to measure the BMD and serum 
calcium and vitamin D levels in adult thalassemia major patients and to compare 
them with healthy controls. Materials and methods We conducted this 
cross-sectional observational study at a tertiary care hospital in eastern 
India. We recruited adult thalassemia major patients who were not on calcium or 
vitamin D supplements. Their BMD was measured by dual-energy X-ray 
absorptiometry (DXA) on the lumbar spine (L1-L4). Venous blood was tested for 
serum calcium and vitamin D levels. We compared the parameters between the cases 
and controls by using the Mann-Whitney U test. Results A total of 31 (male = 19, 
female = 12) patients with a median age of 28 years comprised the case group. 
Age- and sex-matched controls showed similar height but higher weight and BMI. 
The serum calcium level was similar (p = 0.43) in the case and control groups 
but T-score (p = 0.0003) and vitamin D levels (p: <0.0001) were significantly 
lower in thalassemia major patients. Conclusion Based on our findings, adult 
thalassemia major patients have lower BMD and vitamin D levels. Although the 
serum calcium may be normal in these patients, they should still be screened 
both for BMD and vitamin D for prompt and early detection of risks and 
complications so that a proper management strategy can be implemented.

Copyright © 2022, Santra et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.26688
PMCID: PMC9359209
PMID: 35959170

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


516. Prev Med Rep. 2022 Jul 30;29:101929. doi: 10.1016/j.pmedr.2022.101929. 
eCollection 2022 Oct.

Harms and benefits of cervical cancer screening among non-attenders in 
Switzerland: The transition towards HPV-based screening.

Catarino R(1), Vassilakos P(1)(2), Petignat P(1), Combescure C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Gynaecology and Obstetrics, Geneva University 
Hospitals, Boulevard de la Cluse 30, 1205 Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)Geneva Foundation for Medical Education and Research, Route de Ferney 150, 
1211 Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)Division of Clinical Epidemiology, Geneva University Hospitals, Rue 
Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil 4, 1205 Geneva, Switzerland.

Human papillomavirus (HPV) testing is replacing cytological screening for 
cervical cancer. Our aim was to assess the expected benefits and harms of 
different cervical screening strategies. This study is sub-analysis of a 
previous cost-effectiveness study with a target population of unscreened women 
without cervical cancer aged ≥ 25 years. A recursive decision-tree with one-year 
cycles was used to model the life-long natural HPV history. Markov cohort 
simulations were used to assess the expected outcomes from the model. The 
outcomes of three strategies were compared with the absence of screening: 
HPV-testing on self-collected vaginal samples (Self-HPV) followed by colposcopy 
(Self-HPV/colpo), Self-HPV and triage with cytology (Self-HPV/PAP), cytology and 
triage with HPV (PAP/HPV). All screening strategies resulted in reductions in 
cancer cases and deaths. Self-HPV strategies were associated with a lower cancer 
incidence and mortality life-long, not only when performed every 3 years but 
also when Self-HPV was performed every 5 years vs cytology every 3 years. The 
gain in life expectancy obtained was 82 days with Self-HPV/colpo, 81 days with 
Self-HPV/PAP and 75 days with PAP/HPV compared to no screening. The number of 
lifetime total visits was greater with PAP/HPV compared with the Self-HPV 
strategies (13.13 vs < 3). The number of conizations remained relatively stable 
with the change of screening frequency and strategy. Self-HPV may represent a 
reasonable balance of harms and benefits when performed every 5 years compared 
to cytology every 3 years. Self-HPV/PAP yielded the most efficient harm to 
benefit ratio when using colposcopy as a proxy for harms.

© 2022 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmedr.2022.101929
PMCID: PMC9357843
PMID: 35959498

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


517. East Mediterr Health J. 2022 Jul 31;28(7):478-488. doi:
10.26719/emhj.22.050.

Epidemiological status of type 2 diabetes mellitus in the Middle East and North 
Africa, 1990-2019.

Moradinazar M(1), Babakhani M(1), Rostami R(1), Shakiba M(1), Moradi A(1), 
Shakiba E(1).

Author information:
(1)Behavioral Disease Research Centre, Kermanshah University of Medical 
Sciences, Kermanshah, Islamic Republic of Iran.

BACKGROUND: Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) is associated with various 
complications and imposes significant economic pressures.
AIMS: The aim of this study was to determine the epidemiological status and the 
burden of T2D in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries during 
1990-2019; to inform targeting of prevention strategies.
METHODS: The study population included 21 countries, covering a population of 
about 400 million. The global burden of disease 2019 database was used. 
Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) were computed by summing up the years of 
life lost and the years lived with disability. Prevalence, incidence, death 
rates and DALY rates per 100 000 people for all locations by age-standardized 
rates were calculated.
RESULTS: In 2019, Qatar had the highest prevalence [16312.4; 95% unit interval 
(UI): 15050.0-17723.2] and incidence rates (818.0; 95% UI: 773.9-868.7) of T2D 
Bahrain had the highest death (127.0; 95% UI: 102.5-154.6) and DALYs (3232.5; 
95% UI: 2622.4-3929.3) rates In the MENA area, average DALY rates increased by 
nearly 31% (808.3 to 1060.8) and average death rates increased by 0.2% (24.8 to 
25.2) during 1990-2019. The highest increase for T2D-related DALYs (516.5 to 
958.1; 85%) and the highest increase for T2D-related deaths (12.5 to 22.0; 76%) 
was in the Islamic Republic of Iran.
CONCLUSION: Prevalence, incidence, deaths and DALYs rates for T2D have continued 
to increase in most of the MENA countries. Health care systems must make efforts 
to control modifiable risk factors.

Publisher: الوضع الوبائي للسكري من النمط 2 في الشرق الأوسط وشمال أفريقيا، 
1990–2019. مهدي مورادينازار، مريم باباخاني، رضا روستمي، محمد شكيبة، عاطفة مرادي، 
إبراهيم شكيبة.
الخلفية: يرتبط السكري من النمط 2 بمضاعفات مختلفة، ويتسبب في ضغوط اقتصادية كبيرة.
الأهداف: هدفت هذه الدراسة إلى تحديد الوضع الوبائي للسكري من النمط 2 وعبء هذا 
المرض في بلدان الشرق الأوسط وشمال أفريقيا خلال المدة 1990–2019، مما قد يساعد في 
استهداف استراتيجيات الوقاية.
طرق البحث: استخدمت الدراسة قاعدة البيانات العالمية لعبء الأمراض لعام 2019، وشملت 
400 مليون شخص في 21 بلدًا. وحُسبت سنوات العمر المُصححة باحتساب مدد الإعاقة 
(DALYs)، من خلال جمع سنوات العمر المفقودة وسنوات العيش مع الإصابة بالإعاقة. 
وحُسِبت معدلات الانتشار والإصابة والوفيات ومعدلات سنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب 
مدة الإعاقة لكل 100 ألف شخص في جميع المواقع باستخدام المعدلات المُوحَّدة حسب 
السن.
النتائج: في عام 2019، كانت قطر بها أعلى معدل انتشار بواقع 16312.4 (95٪ UI : 
15050.0–17723.2) ومعدلات إصابة 818.0 (95٪ UI: 773.9–868.7). وكانت البحرين بها 
أعلى معدل وفيات (127.0 ؛ 95٪ UI: 102.5–154.6) ومعدلات سنوات العمر المصححة 
باحتساب مدد الإعاقة (3232.5؛ 95٪ UI: 2622.4–3929.3). وفي منطقة الشرق الأوسط 
وشمال أفريقيا، ارتفع متوسط معدلات سنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب مدد الإعاقة بنسبة 
31٪ تقريبًا (808.3 إلى 1060.8) وارتفع متوسط معدلات الوفاة بنسبة 0.2٪ (24.8 إلى 
25.2) خلال الفترة 1990–2019. وسُجلت أعلى زيادة في سنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب 
مدد الإعاقة المرتبطة بالسكري من النمط 2 (516.5 إلى 958.1؛ 85٪)، وأعلى زيادة في 
الوفيات المرتبطة بالسكري من النمط 2 (12.5 إلى 22.0؛ 76٪) في جمهورية إيران 
الإسلامية.
الاستنتاجات: استمرت معدلات الانتشار والإصابة والوفيات ومعدلات سنوات العمر 
المصححة باحتساب مدد الإعاقة للسكري من النمط 2 في الارتفاع في معظم بلدان الشرق 
الأوسط وشمال أفريقيا. وينبغي لنُظُم الرعاية الصحية أن تبذل جهودًا للسيطرة على 
عوامل الخطر القابلة للتعديل.

Publisher: Situation épidémiologique du diabète sucré de type 2 dans la Région 
Moyen-Orient et Afrique du Nord, 1990-2019.
INTRODUCTION: Le diabète sucré de type 2 est associé à diverses complications et 
impose des contraintes économiques importantes.
OBJECTIFS: La présente étude visait à déterminer le statut épidémiologique et la 
charge du diabète sucré de type 2 dans les pays du Moyen-Orient et d'Afrique du 
Nord au cours de la période 1990-2019 afin de mieux cibler les stratégies de 
prévention.
MÉTHODES: La population d'étude était composée de 21 pays, couvrant près de 400 
millions de personnes. La base de données de 2019 sur la charge mondiale de 
morbidité a été utilisée. Les années de vie ajustées sur l'incapacité (DALY) 
sont calculées en additionnant les années de vie perdues et les années vécues 
avec une incapacité. Les taux de prévalence, d'incidence, de mortalité et de 
DALY pour 100 000 personnes ont été calculés pour tous les lieux en utilisant 
des taux standardisés selon l'âge.
RÉSULTATS: En 2019, le Qatar présentait les taux de prévalence [16 312,4 ; 95 % 
intervalle unitaire (UI) : 15 050,0-17 723,2] et d'incidence (818,0 ; 95 % UI : 
773,9-868,7) les plus élevés. Bahreïn présentait les taux de mortalité (127,0 ; 
UI à 95 % : 102,5-154,6) et de DALY (3232,5 ; UI à 95 % : 2622,4-3929,3) les 
plus élevés. Dans la Région Moyen-Orient et Afrique du Nord, les taux moyens de 
DALY ont augmenté de près de 31 % (808,3 à 1060,8) et les taux moyens de 
mortalité ont enregistré une hausse de 0,4 % (24,8 % à 25,2 %) au cours de la 
période 1990-2019. La plus forte augmentation des DALY liées au diabète sucré de 
type 2 (516,5 à 958,1 ; 85 %) et la hausse la plus importante des décès liés au 
diabète sucré de type 2 (12,5 à 22,0 ; 76 %) ont été enregistrées en République 
islamique d'Iran.
CONCLUSION: Les taux de prévalence, d'incidence, de décès et de DALY liés au 
diabète sucré de type 2 ont continué à augmenter dans la plupart des pays de la 
Région Moyen-Orient et Afrique du Nord. Les systèmes de santé doivent s'efforcer 
de maîtriser les facteurs de risque modifiables.

Copyright © World Health Organization (WHO) 2022. Open Access. Some rights 
reserved. This work is available under the CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 IGO license 
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/igo).

DOI: 10.26719/emhj.22.050
PMID: 35959663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. J Med Econ. 2022 Jan-Dec;25(1):1076-1084. doi:
10.1080/13696998.2022.2113221.

Evaluating the cost-utility of a direct transfer to angiosuite protocol within 
6 h of symptom onset in suspected large vessel occlusion patients.

Requena M(1)(2), Seguel-Ravest V(3), Vilaseca-Jolonch A(1), Woods J(4), Guijarro 
P(5), Ribo M(1)(2), Tomasello A(6), Molina CA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Stroke Unit, Neurology Department, Vall d'Hebron University Hospital, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Stroke Research Group, Vall d'Hebron Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Medtronic Ltd, Watford, UK.
(4)Medtronic Inc., Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(5)Medtronic Ibérica SAU, Madrid, Spain.
(6)Department of Interventional Neuroradiology, Vall d'Hebron University 
Hospital, Barcelona, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: A direct transfer to angiosuite (DTAS) protocol has shown to be 
effective and safe by shortening in-hospital workflows and encouraging long-term 
outcome benefits. To implement DTAS at a new facility, a large organizational 
effort is necessary. We performed a cost-utility analysis and budget impact 
analysis (BIA) of the operation of a new angiosuite, primarily dedicated to 
stroke patients, that allows facilities to approximate the cost implications of 
utilizing a DTAS pathway.
METHODS: Sixty-one patients who underwent endovascular treatment (EVT) following 
DTAS were matched for baseline variables to 117 patients who underwent a 
conventional imaging protocol at a hospital in Catalonia, Spain. An economic 
model, based on actual data from these patients, was developed to assess the 
short- and long-term clinical and economic implications of DTAS. In the BIA, the 
DTAS scenario was gradually implemented for 20% of patients each year until 
reaching a plateau at 80% of patients in the DTAS pathway. Initial investment 
and additional organizational costs, €4 million, were taken into consideration 
to compare the budget impact of the DTAS scenario with no organizational changes 
over five years.
RESULTS: DTAS was associated with better patient functional independence rates 
(mRS 0-2: 50.9% vs. 41.0%) and a quality-adjusted life-years gain of 0.82 per 
patient. Despite the additional initial investment, DTAS development was 
associated with an estimated 10.2% reduction (€14.7 million) of the total costs 
(€144.5 million). Cost savings were mainly due to long-term associated costs 
related to patient disability (€13.2 million).
LIMITATIONS: The study relies on data obtained from a single-center, and 
therefore it may be difficult to generalize the findings.
CONCLUSIONS: Our economic model predicts that the implementation of a DTAS 
program is cost-effective compared with no organizational changes. Our model 
also predicts better clinical outcomes for patients in terms of functional 
independence and quality-adjusted life years.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2022.2113221
PMID: 35960180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Mikrobiyol Bul. 2022 Jul;56(3):493-505. doi: 10.5578/mb.20229709.

[One-Year Candida Data of the Central Mycology Laboratory: Which Sample, Which 
Species, How Resistant?].

[Article in Turkish]

Turan D(1), Aksaray S(2).

Author information:
(1)Haydarpaşa Numune Education and Research Hospital, Medical Microbiology 
Laboratory, Istanbul, Türkiye.
(2)İSLAB-2 Center Laboratory, Istanbul, Türkiye.

The incidence of fungal infections particularly Candida species, is increasing 
gradually as a result of the increased life expectancy associated with the 
advances in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases, and increased number of 
patients in the risk group over the years. In addition, the incidence of fungal 
infection types that are resistant to antifungal drugs has been increasing, and 
rare fungal species have been reported to be isolated more frequently. For this 
reason, it is indicated that identification to the species level will contribute 
to the early initiation of an accurate and effective treatment. In this study, 
it was aimed to define the Candida species isolated from various clinical 
specimens and to document the performance of antifungal sensitivity tests. The 
Candida isolates sent to the central mycology laboratory in 2019 for 
identification and antifungal susceptibility tests were included in the study. 
The definition of the fungi to the species level was carried out using 
matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of fl ight mass spectrometry 
(MALDI-TOF MS) and conventional methods. In vitro antifungal drug 
susceptibilities were analyzed using the The Clinical and Laboratory Standarts 
Institute (CLSI, M27-A3) reference broth microdilution method. The minimum 
inhibitory concentration (MIC) results were interpreted in accordance with the 
species-specific clinical breakpoints (CBPs) cited in the CLSI-M60 guidelines, 
and according to the epidemiological cut-off value (ECV) when no CBP was 
mentioned. The distribution of the species of the total 813 Candida isolates 
included in the study were as follows: Candida albicans (n= 312 ), Candida 
parapsilosis (n= 202), Candida tropicalis (n= 92), Candida glabrata (n= 71), 
Candida dubliniensis (n=28), Candida lusitaniae (n= 26), Candida kefyr (n= 22), 
Candida utilis (n= 17), Candida krusei (n= 14), Candida orthopsilosis (n= 7), 
Candida inconspicua (n= 7), Candida guilliermondii (n= 5), Candida metapsilosis 
(n= 4), Candida norvegensis (n= 4), Candida lambica (n= 1) and Candida 
lipolytica (n= 1). The evaluation of the results of the antifungal 
susceptibility tests according to the CBPs revealed that one C.albicans isolate 
and 60 C.parapsilosis (29.7%) isolates were resistant, and seven C.parapsilosis 
(3.5%) isolates were dose-dependent susceptible to fluconazole; 32 
C.parapsilosis (15.8%) isolates were intermediately susceptible to voriconazole; 
one C.parapsilosis (0.5%) was resistant and one C.krusei (7.1%) was 
intermediately susceptible to anidulafungin; and one C.parapsilosis (0.5%) was 
resistant and one C.krusei (7.1%) isolate was intermediately susceptible to 
micafungin. In terms of ECVs, one C.lusitaniae isolate for fluconazole and one 
of each C.lusitaniae and C.kefyr isolates were evaluated as a non-wild type. In 
the present study, 61 of 813 isolates were found to be resistant to fluconazole 
and seven were dose dependently susceptible, 32 were intermediately susceptible 
to voriconazole, one was resistant to anidulafungin, one was intermediately 
susceptible, and one was resistant to micafungin and one was intermediately 
susceptible to micafungin. In conclusion, the increased number of non- albicans 
Candida species and increased levels of resistance to antifungal drugs further 
establish the importance of early diagnosis at a species level alongside 
antifungal susceptibility tests.

DOI: 10.5578/mb.20229709
PMID: 35960240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Pharmacoeconomics. 2022 Nov;40(11):1095-1105. doi:
10.1007/s40273-022-01174-2.  Epub 2022 Aug 12.

A Proposal of a Cost-Effectiveness Modeling Approach for Heart Failure Treatment 
Assessment: Considering the Short- and Long-Term Impact of Hospitalization on 
Event Rates.

Di Tanna GL(1)(2), Angell B(3), Urbich M(4), Lindgren P(5)(6), Gaziano TA(7), 
Globe G(8), Stollenwerk B(9).

Author information:
(1)University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia. 
gditanna@georgeinstitute.org.au.
(2)The George Institute for Global Health, Level 5, 1 King St, Newtown, NSW, 
2042, Australia. gditanna@georgeinstitute.org.au.
(3)The George Institute for Global Health, Level 5, 1 King St, Newtown, NSW, 
2042, Australia.
(4)Biogen International GmbH, Baar, Switzerland.
(5)Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)The Swedish Institute for Health Economics, Lund, Sweden.
(7)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(8)Cerevel Therapeutics, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(9)Amgen (Europe) GmbH, Economic Modeling Center of Excellence, Rotkreuz, 
Switzerland.

