treatment, and less concern about other people's skin 6 months after treatment, 
compared to non-frail patients. Complication rate, gender, or guideline 
deviation did not affect any subscale scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Assessment of frailty and life expectancy can guide physicians and 
patients in treatment decisions. Deviation from guidelines towards less 
aggressive treatment schedules can be considered in frail patients with a 
limited life expectancy, since it did not negatively affect short-term outcomes 
or QoL in patients with cSCCHN in our study. However, these results should be 
confirmed by other, larger prospective studies with a longer follow-up period.

© 2022 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000525974
PMID: 36007491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. J Aging Stud. 2022 Sep;62:101062. doi: 10.1016/j.jaging.2022.101062. Epub
2022  Aug 12.

Media portrayals of transitions from work to retirement in two ageing societies: 
the case of ageing baby boomers in Japan and Finland.

Ishikawa M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Sciences and Philosophy, University of Jyväskylä, 
Finland; Research Institute of Human Development, Kyoto International Social 
Welfare Exchange Centre, Japan. Electronic address: motoko.m.ishikawa@jyu.fi.

This article explores media portrayals of the transition from work to retirement 
under the circumstances of demographic change through a focus on newspaper 
discussions about ageing baby boomers in Japan and Finland. Due to their shared 
characteristics as a distinct population group that advances the rapid ageing of 
the population, media representations of Japanese and Finnish baby boomers 
during the transitional period to retirement give insight into the social 
perceptions of retirement and their implications on later life. Manifest content 
analysis and subsequent thematic analysis identify that the topic of "work, 
retirement and pension" dominates media discussions in both countries. Analysis 
also conveys that this topic involves specific themes on three levels: macro 
level, attitudinal level and behavioural level regarding working, subjective and 
social perceptions of retirement. Social and cultural differences between Japan 
and Finland are well accounted for in shaping each theme, which is characterised 
by even contrasting expressions regarding the extension of working life and 
attitudes toward work and retirement. However, deeper analysis suggests that the 
idea that values an active, productive and engaged lifestyle beyond retirement 
underlies both Japanese and Finnish media discourses. Media discussions in both 
countries risk creating a discriminatory dichotomy among older people: the 
Finnish media marginalises those who are out of work and without work-like 
activities, while the Japanese media tend to exclude those without socially 
desirable competence.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaging.2022.101062
PMID: 36008032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Value Health. 2023 Jan;26(1):115-122. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2022.07.001. Epub
2022  Aug 23.

Valuing Health Gain from Composite Response Endpoints for Multisystem Diseases.

Gavan SP(1), Bruce IN(2), Payne K(3); MASTERPLANS Consortium.

Collaborators: Bruce I, Payne K, Lunt M, Peek N, Geifman N, Gavan S, Armitt G, 
Doherty P, Prattley J, Azadbakht N, Papazian A, Le Sueur H, Farrelly C, 
Richardson C, Shabbir Z, Hewitt L, McHugh N, Gordon C, Reynolds J, Young S, 
Jayne D, Farewell V, Su L, Pickering M, Lightstone E, Gilmore A, Botto M, Vyse 
T, Morris DL, D'Cruz D, Vital E, Wittmann M, Emery P, Beresford M, Hedrich C, 
Midgley A, Gritzfeld J, Ehrenstein M, Isenberg D, Parvaz M, Dunnage J, Batchelor 
J, Holland E, Upsall P, Youssef H, Jayne D, McCann L, Mediwake R, Bharadwaj A, 
Vital E, Gordon C, Kapur D, Chee-Seng Yee P, Griffiths B, Yusuf A, Zoma A, 
Vermaak E, Carlucci F, Watts R, Gordon P, Shaffu S, Wijeyekoon J, McLaren Z, 
Ahmad Y, Batley M, Gompels L, Sheeran T, Yi Yong C, Jeffery R, Hamdulay S, 
Rahmeh F, Young Min S, Rhodes B, De Lord D, Lanyon P, Chan A, Teh LS, Marks J, 
Hutchinson D, Regan M, Haigh R, Stratton R, Rhys-Dillon C, Akil M, Mewar D, 
Skeoch S, Erb N, O'Riordan E, Bartram S, Gayed M, Dasgupta B, Gunwardena H, Pyne 
D, Kaul A, Mahindrakar M, Raj Sood B, Batley M, Isenberg D, Gullick N, Edwards 
C, Joanna C Robson, King J, Farrell A, Haque S, Knights S.

Author information:
(1)Manchester Centre for Health Economics, Division of Population Health, Health 
Services Research and Primary Care, School of Health Sciences, Faculty of 
Biology, Medicine and Health, The University of Manchester, Manchester Academic 
Health Science Centre, Manchester, England, UK. Electronic address: 
sean.gavan@manchester.ac.uk.
(2)Centre for Epidemiology Versus Arthritis, Centre for Musculoskeletal 
Research, Division of Musculoskeletal and Dermatological Sciences, School of 
Biological Sciences, Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, The University of 
Manchester, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester, England, UK; 
NIHR Manchester Biomedical Research Centre, Manchester University NHS Foundation 
Trust, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester, England, UK.
(3)Manchester Centre for Health Economics, Division of Population Health, Health 
Services Research and Primary Care, School of Health Sciences, Faculty of 
Biology, Medicine and Health, The University of Manchester, Manchester Academic 
Health Science Centre, Manchester, England, UK.

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to demonstrate how to estimate the value of health 
gain after patients with a multisystem disease achieve a condition-specific 
composite response endpoint.
METHODS: Data from patients treated in routine practice with an exemplar 
multisystem disease (systemic lupus erythematosus) were extracted from a 
national register (British Isles Lupus Assessment Group Biologics Register). Two 
bespoke composite response endpoints (Major Clinical Response and Improvement) 
were developed in advance of this study. Difference-in-differences regression 
compared health utility values (3-level version of EQ-5D; UK tariff) over 6 
months for responders and nonresponders. Bootstrapped regression estimated the 
incremental quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), probability of QALY gain after 
achieving the response criteria, and population monetary benefit of response.
RESULTS: Within the sample (n = 171), 18.2% achieved Major Clinical Response and 
49.1% achieved Improvement at 6 months. Incremental health utility values were 
0.0923 for Major Clinical Response and 0.0454 for Improvement. Expected 
incremental QALY gain at 6 months was 0.020 for Major Clinical Response and 
0.012 for Improvement. Probability of QALY gain after achieving the response 
criteria was 77.6% for Major Clinical Response and 72.7% for Improvement. 
Population monetary benefit of response was £1 106 458 for Major Clinical 
Response and £649 134 for Improvement.
CONCLUSIONS: Bespoke composite response endpoints are becoming more common to 
measure treatment response for multisystem diseases in trials and observational 
studies. Health technology assessment agencies face a growing challenge to 
establish whether these endpoints correspond with improved health gain. Health 
utility values can generate this evidence to enhance the usefulness of composite 
response endpoints for health technology assessment, decision making, and 
economic evaluation.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2022.07.001
PMID: 36008224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Drugs Aging. 2022 Sep;39(9):685-694. doi: 10.1007/s40266-022-00973-8. Epub
2022  Aug 26.

Management of Biochemical Recurrence of Prostate Cancer After Curative 
Treatment: A Focus on Older Patients.

Tremeau L(1), Mottet N(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre Hospitalo-Universitaire de Saint Etienne, Saint Etienne, France. 
lancelot.tremeau@orange.fr.
(2)Centre Hospitalo-Universitaire de Saint Etienne, Saint Etienne, France.

Following a treatment with curative intent, a biochemical recurrence may be 
diagnosed, often many years after the primary treatment. The consequences of 
this relapse on survival are very heterogeneous. The expected specific survival 
at relapse is above 50% at 10 years. Therefore, its management needs to be 
balanced with the individual life expectancy. The relapse needs to be 
categorized as either a low- or high-risk category. The latter has to be 
considered for salvage therapy, provided the individual life expectancy is long 
enough. It is evaluated through an initial geriatric assessment, starting with 
the G8 score as well as the mini-Cog. A comprehensive geriatric assessment might 
be needed based on the G8 score. Patients will then be categorized as either 
fit, vulnerable, or frail. If a local salvage therapy is considered, the relapse 
localization might be of interest in some situations. Available salvage 
therapies in senior adults have nothing special compared to salvage of younger 
men, except for aggressive local therapy, which might be less well tolerated. 
The key objective in managing a biochemical recurrence in senior adults is to 
find the right balance between under- and over-treatment in a shared decision 
process. In many frail and vulnerable men, a clinically oriented watchful 
waiting should be preferred, while fit men with an aggressive relapse and a 
significant life expectancy need an active therapy.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-022-00973-8
PMID: 36008748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Antioxidants (Basel). 2022 Aug 20;11(8):1619. doi: 10.3390/antiox11081619.

The Potential Implications of Hydrogen Sulfide in Aging and Age-Related Diseases 
through the Lens of Mitohormesis.

Vo TTT(1), Huynh TD(2), Wang CS(1), Lai KH(3), Lin ZC(4), Lin WN(5), Chen YL(6), 
Peng TY(1), Wu HC(7), Lee IT(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Dentistry, College of Oral Medicine, Taipei Medical University, 
Taipei 11031, Taiwan.
(2)Lab of Biomaterial, Department of Histology, Embryology, and Genetics, Pham 
Ngoc Thach University of Medicine, Ho Chi Minh City 72500, Vietnam.
(3)PhD Program in Clinical Drug Development of Herbal Medicine, College of 
Pharmacy, Taipei Medical University, Taipei 11031, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Nursing, Division of Basic Medical Sciences, and Chronic 
Diseases and Health Promotion Research Center, Chang Gung University of Science 
and Technology, Puzi City, Chiayi County 61363, Taiwan.
(5)Graduate Institute of Biomedical and Pharmaceutical Science, Fu Jen Catholic 
University, New Taipei City 24205, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, College of Medicine, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan.
(7)Graduate Institute of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei 11031, Taiwan.

The growing increases in the global life expectancy and the incidence of chronic 
diseases as a direct consequence have highlighted a demand to develop effective 
strategies for promoting the health of the aging population. Understanding 
conserved mechanisms of aging across species is believed helpful for the 
development of approaches to delay the progression of aging and the onset of 
age-related diseases. Mitochondrial hormesis (or mitohormesis), which can be 
defined as an evolutionary-based adaptive response to low-level stress, is 
emerging as a promising paradigm in the field of anti-aging. Depending on the 
severity of the perceived stress, there are varying levels of hormetic response 
existing in the mitochondria called mitochondrial stress response. Hydrogen 
sulfide (H2S) is a volatile, flammable, and toxic gas, with a characteristic 
odor of rotten eggs. However, H2S is now recognized an important gaseous 
signaling molecule to both physiology and pathophysiology in biological systems. 
Recent studies that elucidate the importance of H2S as a therapeutic molecule 
has suggested its protective effects beyond the traditional understanding of its 
antioxidant properties. H2S can also be crucial for the activation of 
mitochondrial stress response, postulating a potential mechanism for combating 
aging and age-related diseases. Therefore, this review focuses on highlighting 
the involvement of H2S and its sulfur-containing derivatives in the induction of 
mitochondrial stress response, suggesting a novel possibility of mitohormesis 
through which this gaseous signaling molecule may promote the healthspan and 
lifespan of an organism.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox11081619
PMCID: PMC9404924
PMID: 36009338

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest regarding the publication of this article.


664. Antibiotics (Basel). 2022 Aug 11;11(8):1089. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics11081089.

Neonatal Early Onset Sepsis (EOS) Calculator plus Universal Serial Physical 
Examination (SPE): A Prospective Two-Step Implementation of a Neonatal EOS 
Prevention Protocol for Reduction of Sepsis Workup and Antibiotic Treatment.

Cavigioli F(1), Viaroli F(1), Daniele I(1), Paroli M(1)(2), Guglielmetti 
L(1)(2), Esposito E(1)(2), Cerritelli F(3), Zuccotti G(1)(2), Lista G(1).

Author information:
(1)Neonatology and Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, V. Buzzi Children's Hospital, 
20100 Milan, Italy.
(2)Department of Biomedical and Clinical Science, Università Degli Studi di 
Milano, 20100 Milan, Italy.
(3)Non-Profit Foundation C.O.ME. Collaboration, Centre for Osteopathic Medicine 
Collaboration, 65121 Pescara, Italy.

Current neonatal early-onset sepsis (EOS) guidelines lack consensus. Recent 
studies suggest three different options for EOS risk assessment among infants 
born ≥35 wks gestational age (GA), leading to different behaviors in the sepsis 
workup and antibiotic administration. A broad disparity in clinical practice is 
found in Neonatal Units, with a large number of non-infected newborns evaluated 
and treated for EOS. Broad spectrum antibiotics in early life may induce 
different short- and long-term adverse effects, longer hospitalization, and 
early mother-child separation. In this single-center prospective study, a total 
of 3002 neonates born in three periods between 2016 and 2020 were studied, and 
three different workup algorithms were compared: the first one was based on the 
categorical risk assessment; the second one was based on a Serial Physical 
Examination (SPE) strategy for infants with EOS risk factors; the third one 
associated an informatic tool (Neonatal EOS calculator) with a universal 
extension of the SPE strategy. The main objective of this study was to reduce 
the number of neonatal sepsis workups and the rate of antibiotic administration 
and favor rooming-in and mother−infant bonding without increasing the risk of 
sepsis and mortality. The combined strategy of universal SPE with the EOS 
Calculator showed a significant reduction of laboratory tests (from 33% to 6.6%; 
p < 0.01) and antibiotic treatments (from 8.5% to 1.4%; p < 0.01) in term and 
near-term newborns. EOS and mortality did not change significantly during the 
study period.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics11081089
PMCID: PMC9405114
PMID: 36009958

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


665. Foods. 2022 Aug 10;11(16):2398. doi: 10.3390/foods11162398.

Effects of High-Voltage Atmospheric Cold Plasma Treatment on Microbiological and 
Quality Characters of Tilapia Fillets.

Wang J(1), Fu T(1)(2), Wang Y(1), Zhang J(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science and Engineering, Hainan University, Haikou 570228, 
China.
(2)Agricultural Products Processing Research Institute, Chinese Academy of 
Tropical Agricultural Sciences, Zhanjiang 524000, China.
(3)College of Food Science and Technology, Nanjing Agricultural University, 
Nanjing 210095, China.

Cold plasma (CP) has become an alternative to conventional thermal processing of 
food products. In this study, the effect of cold plasma treatment time on the 
inactivation and quality of tilapia fillets was investigated. The surfaces of 
tilapia fillets were inoculated with Salmonella enteritis (S. enteritis), 
Listeria monocytogenes (L. monocytogenes), and a mixture of both before being 
treated with cold plasma at 70 kV for 0, 60, 120, 180, 240, and 300 s. With the 
extension of treatment time, the number of colonies on the surface of the 
fillets decreased gradually; after 300 s of cold plasma treatment, S. enteritis 
and L. monocytogenes populations were reduced by 2.34 log CFU/g and 1.69 log 
CFU/g, respectively, and the a* value and immobile water content decreased 
significantly (p < 0.05), while the free water content increased significantly 
(p < 0.05). TBARS value increased significantly (p < 0.05) to 1.83 mg MDA/kg for 
300 s treatment. The carbonyl value and sulfhydryl value of sarcoplasmic protein 
significantly (p < 0.05) increased and decreased, respectively, as treatment 
time extension, while no significant changes were found in myofibrillar protein. 
No significant differences were observed in pH, b* value, elasticity, chewiness, 
thiol value, and TVB-N value. The results showed that cold plasma had an 
inactivation effect on tilapia fillets and could preserve their original safety 
indicators. It was concluded that CP treatment could be used as an effective 
non-thermal method to maintain the quality of tilapia fillets and extend their 
shelf-life.

DOI: 10.3390/foods11162398
PMCID: PMC9407128
PMID: 36010396

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


666. Foods. 2022 Aug 19;11(16):2506. doi: 10.3390/foods11162506.

Comparative Transcriptome Analysis Reveals Gene Expression Differences in 
Eggplant (Solanum melongena L.) Fruits with Different Brightness.

Zhang A(1), Huang Q(2), Li J(3), Zhu W(1), Liu X(4), Wu X(1), Zha D(1).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Protected Horticultural Technology, Horticultural 
Research Institute, Shanghai Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Shanghai 201403, 
China.
(2)College of Life Science, Shanghai Normal University, Shanghai 201418, China.
(3)Shanghai Agricultural Technology Extension Service Center, Shanghai 201103, 
China.
(4)College of Fisheries and Life Science, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai 
201306, China.

Fruit brightness is an important quality trait that affects the market value of 
eggplant. However, few studies have been conducted on eggplant brightness. In 
this study, we aimed to identify genes related to this trait in three varieties 
of eggplant with different fruit brightness between 14 and 22 days after 
pollination. Using RNA-Seq Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and 
Genomes enrichment analyses, we found that wax- and cutin-related pathways and 
differentially expressed genes displayed significant differences among different 
development stages and varieties. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that the 
wax layer was thinner in '30-1' and 'QPCQ' than in '22-1'. Gas 
chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis revealed that wax content was 
significantly lower in '30-1' than in '22-1', which indicated that wax may be an 
important factor determining fruit brightness. We further identified and 
analyzed the KCS gene family, which encodes the rate-limiting enzyme of FA 
elongation in wax synthesis. The results provide an insight into the molecular 
mechanisms of fruit brightness in eggplants and further eggplant breeding 
programs.

DOI: 10.3390/foods11162506
PMCID: PMC9407171
PMID: 36010506

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


667. Cancers (Basel). 2022 Aug 10;14(16):3860. doi: 10.3390/cancers14163860.

Modern Immunotherapy in the Treatment of Triple-Negative Breast Cancer.

Wesolowski J(1), Tankiewicz-Kwedlo A(2), Pawlak D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacodynamics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical University in 
Bialystok, 15-089 Bialystok, Poland.
(2)Department of Monitored Pharmacotherapy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical 
University in Bialystok, 15-089 Bialystok, Poland.

Triple-Negative Breast Cancer is a subtype of breast cancer characterized by the 
lack of expression of estrogen receptors, progesterone receptors, as well as 
human epidermal growth factor receptor 2. This cancer accounts for 15-20% of all 
breast cancers and is especially common in patients under 40 years of age, as 
well as with the occurring BRCA1 mutation. Its poor prognosis is reflected in 
the statistical life expectancy of 8-15 months after diagnosis of metastatic 
TNBC. So far, the lack of targeted therapy has narrowed therapeutic 
possibilities to classic chemotherapy. The idea behind the use of humanized 
monoclonal antibodies, as inhibitors of immunosuppressive checkpoints used by 
the tumor to escape from immune system control, is to reduce immunotolerance and 
direct an intensified anti-tumor immune response. An abundance of recent studies 
has provided numerous pieces of evidence about the safety and clinical benefits 
of immunotherapy using humanized monoclonal antibodies in the fight against many 
types of cancer, including TNBC. In particular, phase three clinical trials, 
such as the IMpassion 130, the KEYNOTE-355 and the KEYNOTE-522 resulted in the 
approval of immunotherapeutic agents, such as atezolizumab and pembrolizumab by 
the US Food and Drug Administration in TNBC therapy. This review aims to present 
the huge potential of immunotherapy using monoclonal antibodies directed against 
immunosuppressive checkpoints-such as atezolizumab, avelumab, durvalumab, 
pembrolizumab, nivolumab, cemiplimab, tremelimumab, ipilimumab-in the fight 
against difficult to treat TNBCs as monotherapy as well as in more advanced 
combination strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14163860
PMCID: PMC9406094
PMID: 36010854

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


668. Cancers (Basel). 2022 Aug 17;14(16):3969. doi: 10.3390/cancers14163969.

Current Evidence of a Deintensification Strategy for Patients with HPV-Related 
Oropharyngeal Cancer.

Sung SY(1), Kim YS(2), Kim SH(3), Lee SJ(4), Lee SW(1), Kwak YK(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Eunpyeong St. Mary's Hospital, College of 
Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul 03312, Korea.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, College of 
Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul 06591, Korea.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, St. Vincent's Hospital, College of 
Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul 16247, Korea.
(4)Medical Library, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul 06591, Korea.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Incheon St. Mary's Hospital, College of 
Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul 21431, Korea.

Human papillomavirus (HPV)-related oropharyngeal cancer differs from 
HPV-negative oropharyngeal cancer in terms of etiology, epidemiology, and 
prognosis. Younger and lower comorbidity patient demographics and favorable 
prognosis allow HPV-related oropharyngeal cancer patients to anticipate longer 
life expectancy. Reducing long-term toxicities has become an increasingly 
important issue. Treatment deintensification to reduce toxicities has been 
investigated in terms of many aspects, and the reduction of radiotherapy (RT) 
dose in definitive treatment, replacement of platinum-based chemotherapy with 
cetuximab, response-tailored dose prescription after induction chemotherapy, and 
reduction of adjuvant RT dose after transoral surgery have been evaluated. We 
performed a literature review of prospective trials of deintensification for 
HPV-related oropharyngeal cancer. In phase II trials, reduction of RT dose in 
definitive treatment showed comparable survival outcomes to historical results. 
Two phase III randomized trials reported inferior survival outcomes for 
cetuximab-based chemoradiation compared with cisplatin-based chemoradiation. In 
a randomized phase III trial investigating adjuvant RT, deintensified RT showed 
noninferior survival outcomes in patients without extranodal extension but worse 
survival in patients with extranodal extension. Optimal RT dosage and patient 
selection require confirmation in future studies. Although many phase II trials 
have reported promising outcomes, the results of phase III trials are needed to 
change the standard treatment. Since high-level evidence has not been 
established, current deintensification should only be performed as part of a 
clinical study with caution. Implementation in clinical practice should not be 
undertaken until evidence from phase III randomized trials is available.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14163969
PMCID: PMC9406155
PMID: 36010959

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


669. Cancers (Basel). 2022 Aug 19;14(16):4007. doi: 10.3390/cancers14164007.

Suprarenal Masses in Very Young Infants: Is It Safe to Watch and Wait? Report of 
a SIOPEN Observational Study Results.

Papadakis V(1), Segura V(2), Conte M(3), Plantaz D(4), Di Cataldo A(5), 
Schleiermacher G(6), Wheeler K(7), Bermúdez JD(8), Ash S(9), Brichard B(10), 
Ladenstein R(11), Combaret V(12), Sarnacki S(13), Fagnani AM(14), Granata C(15), 
Cañete A(16)(17).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology-Oncology, Aghia Sophia Children's 
Hospital, Levadias Street 8, 11527 Athens, Greece.
(2)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria La Fe, Fernando Abril Martorell 106, 
46026 Valencia, Spain.
(3)Department of Hematology-Oncology, Giannina Gaslini Children's Hospital, Via 
Gerolamo Gaslini 3, 16148 Genoa, Italy.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, University Hospital Centre of Grenoble, Av. des 
Maquis du Grésivaudan, 38700 La Tronche, France.
(5)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Unit of Pediatric 
Hematology and Oncology, University of Catania, Piazza Università, 2, 95124 
Catania, Italy.
(6)Siredo Pediatric Oncology Center, and RTOP (Recherche Translationelle en 
Oncologie Pédiatrique) U830 Inserm, Institut Curie, 26 rue d'Ulm, 75005 Paris, 
France.
(7)Department of Paediatric Haematology and Oncology, Oxford Children's 
Hospital, Headington, Oxford OX3 9DU, UK.
(8)Department of Statistics and O.R., University of Valencia Av. de Blasco 
Ibáñez, 13, 46010 Valencia, Spain.
(9)Pediatric Hematology Oncology and Bone Marrow Transplantation Division, Ruth 
Rappaport Children's Hospital, Rambam Health Care Campus, Efron St. 19-27, Haifa 
3109601, Israel.
(10)Department of Paediatric Haematology and Oncology, Cliniques Universitaires 
Saint Luc, Av. Hippocrate 10, 1200 Brussels, Belgium.
(11)St. Anna Children's Hospital, Department of Paediatrics, Medical University 
of Vienna and Children's Cancer Research Institute, Department for Studies and 
Statistics and Integrated Research, Zimmermannplatz 10, 1090 Vienna, Austria.
(12)Laboratoire de Recherche Translationnelle, Centre Léon Bérard, Léa et 
Napoléon Bullukian, 69008 Lyon, France.
(13)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Necker Enfants-Malades Hospital, AP-HP, 
Université de Paris Cité, 149 rue de Sèvres, 75015 Paris, France.
(14)Pediatric Surgery Unit, Department Woman-Child-Newborn, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' 
Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Via Commenda, 10, 20122 Milano, Italy.
(15)Department of Paediatric Radiology, IRCCS Giannina Gaslini Children's 
Hospital, Via Gerolamo Gaslini, 3, 16147 Genoa, Italy.
(16)Pediatric Oncohematology Unit, University and Polytechnic la Fe Hospital, 
Department of Pediatrics, Fernando Abril Martorell 106, 46200 Valencia, Spain.
(17)Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Valencia, Av. de Blasco Ibáñez, 15, 
46010 Valencia, Spain.

Background: To assess whether expectant observation of infants ≤ 90 days old 
with small suprarenal masses (sSRMs) could avoid unnecessary surgery without 
impacting outcome. Methods: Infants ≤ 90 days with a ≤ 5 cm mass, without 
midline extension or lymph node or distant spread were registered 
(ClinicalTrials.org:NCT01728155). Once staging was completed, they were followed 
with ultrasound, MRI and urinary catecholamines. Surgical resection was only 
planned if there was a ≥40% mass volume increase or for a mass persisting after 
48 weeks of the planned observation. Results: Over a 5-year period, 128 infants 
were registered. No infant had detectable MYCN amplification in the peripheral 
blood. Surgery was performed in 39 (30.5%) patients, in 18 during and in 21 
after the planned 48-week observation, and 74% were confirmed to be 
neuroblastomas. Non-life-threatening surgical complications occurred in two 
cases. The 3-year overall survival and event-free survival were 100% and 87.1%, 
respectively. The 16 events observed were volume increase (N = 11) and 
progression to neuroblastoma stage MS (N = 5). Patients with solid masses or 
MIBG-positive masses had lower EFS. Conclusions: Expectant observation for 
infants with sSRMs with clinical follow-up and timely imaging (including MRI 
scan) is safe and effective, allowing surgery to be avoided in the majority of 
them.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14164007
PMCID: PMC9406882
PMID: 36011005

Conflict of interest statement: V.S., M.C., D.P., A.D.C., G.S., K.W., J.D.B., 
S.A., B.B., V.C., S.S., A.M.F. and C.G. declare no conflict of interest. A.C. 
and R.L. report a grant from FP7/2007–2013 ENCCA during the conduct of the 
study. V.P. has received honoraria for lecturing (Sobi, EUSA Pharma) and travel 
support for scientific congress attendance (Sanofi, EUSA Pharma, Novartis).


670. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Aug 12;19(16):9980. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19169980.

Determinants of the Mobile Health Continuance Intention of Elders with Chronic 
Diseases: An Integrated Framework of ECM-ISC and UTAUT.

Tian XF(1), Wu RZ(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Business, Jiaxing University, Jiaxing 314001, China.
(2)College of Economics, Jiaxing University, Jiaxing 314001, China.

With the deepening of population aging in China, chronic diseases are a major 
public health concern that threatens the life and health of nationals. Mobile 
health or mHealth can effectively monitor chronic diseases, which holds vital 
significance to the alleviation of social pressure caused by aging. To patients 
with chronic diseases, mHealth cannot give full play to its value, only when it 
is used in the long term. However, there is not yet research exploring mHealth 
continuance intention from the perspective of elders with chronic diseases. So, 
this research represents the first attempt to empirically analyze mHealth 
continuance intention from the perspective of elders with chronic diseases. The 
purpose of this research is to make up the research gap of the mHealth field and 
to put forward theoretical and practical implications based on research results. 
To obtain research data, a questionnaire was conducted. A total of 926 copies 
were collected online and 527 copies were collected offline. The structural 
equation model (SEM) was used for data analysis. Research results suggest that 
confirmation can significantly influence satisfaction, performance expectancy 
and effort expectancy. Meanwhile, confirmation and performance expectancy can 
significantly influence satisfaction. Additionally, effort expectancy, 
performance expectancy, social influence and facilitating conditions can 
directly and significantly influence continuance intention. Among them, 
performance expectancy can directly influence continuance intention in the most 
significant way. This research provides solid evidence for the validity of the 
integrated model of ECM-ISC and UTAUT in the mHealth field, which can be a 
theoretical basis for mHealth operators' product R&D.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19169980
PMCID: PMC9408135
PMID: 36011615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


671. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Aug 13;19(16):9986. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19169986.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of the Helicobacter Pylori Screening Programme in an 
Asymptomatic Population in China.

Feng T(1), Zheng Z(1), Xu J(1), Cao P(1), Gao S(1), Yu X(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Jilin University, Changchun 130012, China.

Objective The aim of this study was to investigate the cost-effectiveness of 
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) screening and eradication treatment in an 
asymptomatic population in China and to explore the most cost-effective 
screening protocol for H. pylori. Method We used TreeAge 2019 to construct 
Markov models to assess the direct healthcare costs and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) and the cost per year of life saved (YoLS) of three therapies, 
i.e., annual, triennial and five-yearly H. pylori screening. Excess 
probabilities were derived from published high quality studies and 
Meta-analyses, and costs and utilities were derived from the Chinese Yearbook of 
Health Care Statistics and published studies. Incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios (ICERs) were used to describe the results. The willingness-to-pay 
threshold was set at China's Gross National Product per capita. Result In the 
asymptomatic population, the ICER per QALYs gained was US$1238.47 and US$1163.71 
for every three and five years of screening compared to the annual screening 
group; the ICER per YoLS gained was US$3067.91 and US$1602.78, respectively. 
Conclusion Screening for H. pylori in asymptomatic populations in China and 
eradicating treatment for those who test positive is cost-effective. Increasing 
screening participation in asymptomatic populations is more effective than 
increasing the frequency of screening. From a national payer perspective, it is 
cost-effective to screen the general asymptomatic population in China for H. 
pylori and to eradicate those who test positive. Individuals need to choose a 
screening programme that they can afford according to their financial situation.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19169986
PMCID: PMC9408128
PMID: 36011621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


672. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Aug 15;19(16):10068. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph191610068.

The Association between the Burden of PM(2.5)-Related Neonatal Preterm Birth and 
Socio-Demographic Index from 1990 to 2019: A Global Burden Study.

Tang Z(1), Jia J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Peking University, No. 
38, Xueyuan Road, Beijing 100871, China.
(2)Center for Statistical Science, Peking University, 5 Summer Palace Road, 
Beijing 100871, China.

BACKGROUND: Preterm birth (PTB) leads to short-term and long-term adverse 
effects on newborns. Exposure to fine particulate matter (PM2.5) was positively 
related to PTB. However, the global annual average PM2.5 was three times than 
the recommended value in 1998-2014. Socio-demographic index (SDI) is a new 
indicator that comprehensively reflects the overall development level of a 
country, partly because of "the epidemiological transition". Among other 
countries with higher and similar SDI levels, policy makers have the opportunity 
to learn from their successful experiences and avoid their mistakes by 
identifying whether their burdens of disease are higher or lower than the 
expected. However, it is unclear about the trends of the burden of PM2.5-related 
preterm birth in different countries and different levels of SDI regions. 
Additionally, the relationship between the SDI and the burden in 1990-2019 is 
also unclear.
METHODS: This was a retrospective study based on the Global Burden of Disease 
Study 2019 (GBD2019) database from 1990 to 2019. The burden of PM2.5-related PTB 
was measured by the age-standardized mortality rate (ASMR), age-standardized 
disability-adjusted life years rate (ASDR), mortality rate, and the 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs). The annual percentage changes (APCs) and 
the average annual percentage changes (AAPCs) were used to reflect the trends 
over the past 30 years, which were calculated using a joinpoint model. The 
relationships between the ASMR, ASDR, and SDI were calculated using a Gaussian 
process regression.
FINDINGS: In 2019, the entire burden of PM2.5-related PTB was relatively high, 
where the ASMR and the ASDR were 0.76 and 67.71, increasing by 7.04% and 7.12%, 
respectively. It mainly concentrated on early neonates, boys, and on low-middle 
SDI regions. The increase in the burden of PM2.5-related PTB in low and 
low-middle SDI regions is slightly higher than the decrease in other SDI 
regions. In 2019, the burden varied greatly among different levels of SDI 
regions where ASMRs varied from 0.13 in high SDI regions to 1.19 in low-middle 
regions. The relationship between the expected value of the burden of 
PM2.5-related PTB and SDI presented an inverted U-shape, and it reached the 
maximum when SDI is around 0.50. The burdens in four regions (South Asia, North 
Africa and the Middle East, western sub-Saharan Africa, and southern sub-Saharan 
Africa) were much higher than the mean value. Boys bore more burden that girls. 
The sex ratio (boys:girls) of the burden showed a dramatically increasing trend 
in low SDI regions and a decreasing trend in middle SDI regions and high-middle 
SDI regions. These differences reflect the huge inequality among regions, 
countries, ages, and sex in the burden of PM2.5-related PTB.
CONCLUSION: The overall burden of PM2.5-related PTB in 2019 was relatively high, 
mainly concentrated on early neonates, boys, and on low-middle SDI regions. It 
showed an increasing trend in low-middle and low SDI regions. The association 
between the burden and the SDI presented an inverted U-shape. It is very 
necessary to promulgate policies to prevent and control air pollution in 
countries with large and increasing exposure to PM2.5 pollution because it does 
not need action at an individual level. Focusing on public educational 
interventions, public and professional policies, and improving accessibility of 
prenatal care are other feasible ways for low and low-middle SDI countries. 
Policy makers should also appropriately allocate medical resources to boys and 
early newborns.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph191610068
PMCID: PMC9408320
PMID: 36011702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


673. Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Aug 11;23(16):8970. doi: 10.3390/ijms23168970.

Valorization of Berries' Agro-Industrial Waste in the Development of 
Biodegradable Pectin-Based Films for Fresh Salmon (Salmo salar) Shelf-Life 
Monitoring.

Romero J(1), Cruz RMS(2)(3), Díez-Méndez A(1), Albertos I(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Sciences and Art, Universidad Católica de Ávila (UCAV), Calle 
Canteros s/n, 05005 Ávila, Spain.
(2)Department of Food Engineering, Institute of Engineering, Campus da Penha, 
Universidade do Algarve, 8005-139 Faro, Portugal.
(3)MED-Mediterranean Institute for Agriculture, Environment and Development and 
CHANGE-Global Change and Sustainability Institute, Faculty of Sciences and 
Technology, Campus de Gambelas, Universidade do Algarve, 8005-139 Faro, 
Portugal.
(4)Faculty of Health Sciences, Universidad Católica de Ávila (UCAV), Calle 
Canteros s/n, 05005 Ávila, Spain.

The healthy properties of berries are known; however, red fruits are very 
perishable, generating large losses in production and marketing. Nonetheless, 
these wastes can be revalued and used. The main objective of this study was the 
development of biodegradable pectin films with berry agro-industrial waste 
extracts to monitor salmon shelf-life. The obtained extracts from blueberries, 
blackberries, and raspberries wastes were evaluated in terms of flavonols, 
phenols and anthocyanins contents, and antioxidant capacity. Then, pectin films 
with the extracts of different berries were developed and characterized. The 
results showed that the blueberry extract film was thicker (0.248 mm), darker 
(L* = 61.42), and opaquer (17.71%), while the highest density (1.477 g/cm3) was 
shown by the raspberry films. The results also showed that blueberries were the 
best for further application due to their composition in bioactive compounds, 
antioxidant capacity, and color change at different pHs. The salmon samples 
wrapped in blueberry films showed lower values of pH and deterioration of fish 
during storage compared to the control and pectin samples. This study 
contributes to the valorization of berries agro-industrial waste by the 
development of eco-friendly films that can be used in the future as intelligent 
food packaging materials contributing to the extension of food shelf-life as a 
sustainable packaging alternative.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms23168970
PMCID: PMC9409061
PMID: 36012231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


674. Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Aug 13;23(16):9057. doi: 10.3390/ijms23169057.

Phytotherapeuthics Affecting the IL-1/IL-17/G-CSF Axis: A Complementary 
Treatment Option for Hidradenitis Suppurativa?

Witte K(1)(2)(3), Sabat R(1)(2), Witte-Händel E(1)(2), Ghoreschi K(4), Wolk 
K(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Psoriasis Research and Treatment Center, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
10117 Berlin, Germany.
(2)Interdisciplinary Group of Molecular Immunopathology, Dermatology/Medical 
Immunology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(3)Inflammation and Regeneration of Skin, BIH Center for Regenerative Therapies, 
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 13353 Berlin, Germany.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Allergology, 
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 10117 Berlin, Germany.

Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS; also designated as acne inversa) is a chronic 
inflammatory disease characterized by painful skin lesions that occur in the 
axillary, inguinal, gluteal and perianal areas of the body. These lesions 
contain recurring deep-seated, inflamed nodules and pus-discharging abscesses 
and fistulas. Affecting about 1% of the population, this common disease has 
gained appropriate clinical attention in the last years. Associated with 
numerous comorbidities including metabolic syndrome, HS is considered a systemic 
disease that severely impairs the quality of life and shortens life expectancy. 
Therapeutic options for HS are limited, comprising long-term antibiotic 
treatment, the surgical removal of affected skin areas, and neutralization of 
TNF-α, the only approved systemic treatment. Novel treatment options are needed 
to close the therapeutic gap. HS pathogenesis is increasingly better understood. 
In fact, neutrophilic granulocytes (neutrophils) seem to be decisive for the 
development of the purulent destructive skin inflammation in HS. Recent findings 
suggest a key role of the immune mediators IL-1β, IL-17A and G-CSF in the 
migration into and activation of neutrophils in the skin. Although phytomedical 
drugs display potent immunoregulatory properties and have been suggested as 
complementary therapy in several chronic disorders, their application in HS has 
not been considered so far. In this review, we describe the IL-1/IL-17/G-CSF 
axis and evaluate it as potential target for an integrated phytomedical 
treatment of HS.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms23169057
PMCID: PMC9408811
PMID: 36012322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


675. Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Aug 19;23(16):9363. doi: 10.3390/ijms23169363.

Corn Cob as a Green Support for Laccase Immobilization-Application on 
Decolorization of Remazol Brilliant Blue R.

Dos Santos PM(1), Baruque JR(1), de Souza Lira RK(1), Leite SGF(1), do 
Nascimento RP(1), Borges CP(2), Wojcieszak R(3), Itabaiana I Jr(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemical Engineering, School of Chemistry, Federal 
University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro 21941-909, Brazil.
(2)COPPE/Chemical Engineering Program, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio 
de Janeiro 21941-972, Brazil.
(3)CNRS, Centrale Lille, UMR 8181-UCCS-Unité de Catalyse et Chimie du Solide, 
University Lille, University Artois, F-59000 Lille, France.

The high demand for food and energy imposed by the increased life expectancy of 
the population has driven agricultural activity, which is reflected in the 
larger quantities of agro-industrial waste generated, and requires new forms of 
use. Brazil has the greatest biodiversity in the world, where corn is one of the 
main agricultural genres, and where over 40% of the waste generated is from cobs 
without an efficient destination. With the aim of the valorization of these 
residues, we proposed to study the immobilization of laccase from Aspergillus 
spp. (LAsp) in residual corn cob and its application in the degradation of 
Remazol Brilliant Blue R (RBBR) dye. The highest yields in immobilized protein 
(75%) and residual activity (40%) were obtained at pH 7.0 and an enzyme 
concentration of 0.1 g.mL-1, whose expressed enzyme activity was 1854 U.kg-1. At 
a temperature of 60 °C, more than 90% of the initial activity present in the 
immobilized biocatalyst was maintained. The immobilized enzyme showed higher 
efficiency in the degradation (64%) of RBBR dye in 48 h, with improvement in the 
process in 72 h (75%). The new biocatalyst showed operational efficiency during 
three cycles, and a higher degradation rate than the free enzyme, making it a 
competitive biocatalyst and amenable to industrial applications.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms23169363
PMCID: PMC9409158
PMID: 36012620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


676. J Clin Med. 2022 Aug 16;11(16):4792. doi: 10.3390/jcm11164792.

Pregnancies and Gynecological Follow-Up after Solid Organ Transplantation: 
Experience of a Decade.

Bedin A(1), Carbonnel M(1)(2), Snanoudj R(3), Roux A(2)(4), Vanlieferinghen 
S(1), Marchiori C(1), Hertig A(5), Racowsky C(1)(2), Ayoubi JM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hospital Foch, 40, Rue Worth, 92150 
Suresnes, France.
(2)Medical School, University of Versailles, Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines, 55, 
Avenue de Paris, 78000 Versailles, France.
(3)Department of Nephrology, Hospital Bicêtre, 94220 Le Kremlin Bicêtre, France.
(4)Department of Pneumology, Hospital Foch, 40, Rue Worth, 92150 Suresnes, 
France.
(5)Department of Nephrology, Hospital Foch, 40, Rue Worth, 92150 Suresnes, 
France.

In recent years, solid organ transplantations, such as kidney or lung grafts, 
have been performed worldwide with an improvement of quality of life under 
immunosuppressive therapy and an increase in life expectancy, allowing young 
women to consider childbearing. In the current study, we conduct a retrospective 
study in two French centers for kidney and lung transplantations to evaluate the 
rate and outcomes of pregnancies, contraception and gynecological monitoring for 
women under 40 years old who underwent solid organ transplantation. Among 210 
women, progestin was the most widely used contraceptive method. Of the 210 
women, 24 (11.4%) conceived 33 pregnancies of which 25 (75.8%) were planned with 
an immunosuppressant therapy switch. Of the 33 pregnancies, 7 miscarried (21.2%) 
and 21 (63.7%) resulted in a live birth with a high rate of pre-eclampsia (50%). 
No graft rejections were observed during pregnancies. Among the deliveries, 19 
were premature (90.5%, mostly due to induced delivery) and the C-section rate 
was high (52.4%). No particular pathology was identified among newborns. We 
conclude that pregnancies following solid organ transplantation are feasible, 
and while they are at an increased risk of pre-eclampsia and prematurity, they 
should still be permitted with close surveillance by a multidisciplinary care 
team.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11164792
PMCID: PMC9409658
PMID: 36013030

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


677. J Pers Med. 2022 Aug 6;12(8):1294. doi: 10.3390/jpm12081294.

Prevalence of Physical Health, Mental Health, and Disability Comorbidities among 
Women Living with HIV in Canada.

Heer E(1), Kaida A(2), O'Brien N(3), Kleiner B(3), Pierre A(4), Rouleau D(5), 
Burchell AN(6), Skerritt L(3), Proulx-Boucher K(4), Nicholson V(2), Loutfy 
M(7)(8), de Pokomandy A(3)(4)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, McGill University, Montreal, QC H3A 1G1, Canada.
(2)Faculty of Health Sciences, Simon Fraser University, Vancouver, BC V5A 1S6, 
Canada.
(3)Department of Family Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, QC H3S 1Z1, 
Canada.
(4)Research Institute of McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC H4A 3S9, 
Canada.
(5)Department of Infectious Diseases, Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de 
Montréal, Montreal, QC H2X 0C1, Canada.
(6)Department of Family and Community Medicine, St Michael's Hospital, Unity 
Health, Toronto, ON M5B 1W8, Canada.
(7)Women's College Research Institute, Women's College Hospital, Toronto, ON M5S 
1B2, Canada.
(8)Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5S 1A1, Canada.
(9)Chronic Viral Illness Service, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC 
H4A 3J1, Canada.

Life expectancy for people living with HIV has increased, but management of HIV 
is now more complex due to comorbidities. This study aimed to measure the 
prevalence of comorbidities among women living with HIV in Canada. We conducted 
a cross-sectional analysis using data from the 18-months survey (2014−2016) of 
the Canadian HIV Women’s Sexual and Reproductive Health Cohort Study (CHIWOS). 
Self-report of diagnosed conditions was used to measure lifetime prevalence of 
chronic physical conditions, current mental health conditions, and disabilities. 
We examined frequency of overlapping conditions and prevalence stratified by 
gender identity, ethnicity, and age. Among 1039 participants, 70.1% reported a 
physical health diagnosis, 57.4% reported a current mental health diagnosis, 
19.9% reported a disability, and 47.1% reported both physical and mental health 
comorbidities. The most prevalent comorbidities were depression (32.3%), anxiety 
(29.5%), obesity (26.7%, defined as body mass index >30 kg/m2), asthma/chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (23.3%), sleep disorder (22.0%), drug addiction 
(21.9%), and arthritis/osteoarthritis (20.9%). These results highlight the 
complexity of HIV care and the important prevalence of comorbidities. 
Personalized health care that integrates care and prevention of all 
comorbidities with HIV, with attention to social determinants of health, is 
necessary to optimize health and well-being of women living with HIV.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm12081294
PMCID: PMC9409885
PMID: 36013243

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.


678. Life (Basel). 2022 Aug 8;12(8):1207. doi: 10.3390/life12081207.

Effects of Drought Stress on Peramine and Lolitrem B in 
Epichloë-Endophyte-Infected Perennial Ryegrass.

Lin W(1)(2), Gao C(3), Wang J(1), Xu W(1), Wang M(1), Li M(1), Ma B(1), Tian 
P(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Grassland Agro-Ecosystems, Key Laboratory of 
Grassland Livestock Industry Innovation, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Affairs, College of Pastoral Agriculture Science and Technology, Lanzhou 
University, Lanzhou 730020, China.
(2)Institute of Rural Development, Gansu Provincial Academy of Social Sciences, 
Lanzhou 730071, China.
(3)Gansu Grassland Technical Extension Station, Lanzhou 730010, China.

Perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) infected by Epichloë endophytes contains 
alkaloids that are responsible for toxicosis in many countries. Drought may 
greatly affect the alkaloids contents of symbionts. The E+ perennial ryegrass 
was grown in pots with different soil moisture conditions (15%, 30%, 45% and 60% 
relative saturation moisture content, RSMC) for four months in a greenhouse of 
Lanzhou University, and then, the aboveground tissues were collected. The levels 
of peramine and lolitrem B in all plant samples were determined. The results 
showed that the drought stress significantly (p < 0.05) increased the peramine 
concentrations of perennial ryegrass but did not affect the lolitrem B 
concentrations. In addition, the drought stress significantly (p < 0.05) reduced 
the plant height and dry matter of perennial ryegrass. In conclusion, drought 
stress affects the peramine concentration in the perennial ryegrass−endophyte 
symbiont but may not affect the lolitrem B concentration.

DOI: 10.3390/life12081207
PMCID: PMC9410104
PMID: 36013386

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


679. Medicina (Kaunas). 2022 Aug 11;58(8):1082. doi: 10.3390/medicina58081082.

Development and Validation of a New Tool in Predicting In-Hospital Mortality for 
Hip-Fractured Patients: The PRIMOF Score.

Di Martino G(1)(2), Di Giovanni P(3), Cedrone F(2), D'Addezio M(4), Meo F(4), 
Scampoli P(5), Romano F(6), Staniscia T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Ageing Sciences, "G. d'Annunzio" University of 
Chieti-Pescara, 66100 Chieti, Italy.
(2)Unit of Hygiene, Epidemiology and Public Health, Local Health Authority of 
Pescara, 65100 Pescara, Italy.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, "G. d'Annunzio" University of Chieti-Pescara, 66100 
Chieti, Italy.
(4)School of Hygiene and Preventive Medicine, "G. d'Annunzio" University of 
Chieti-Pescara, 66100 Chieti, Italy.
(5)Unit of Hygiene, Epidemiology and Public Health, Local Health Authority of 
Lanciano-Vasto-Chieti, 66100 Chieti, Italy.
(6)Department of Infectious Diseases and Public Health, "La Sapienza" University 
of Rome, 00185 Rome, Italy.

Background and Objectives: The improved life expectancy was associated to the 
increased in the incidence of hip fractures among elderly people. Subjects 
suffering hip fractures frequently show concomitant conditions causing prolonged 
lengths of stay and higher in-hospital mortality. The knowledge of factors 
associated to in-hospital mortality or adverse events can help healthcare 
providers improve patients' outcomes and management. The aim of this study was 
to develop a score to predict in-hospital mortality among hip fractured 
patients. Materials and Methods: Cases were selected from hospital admissions 
that occurred during the period 2006-2015 in Abruzzo region, Italy. The study 
population was split into two random samples in order to evaluate the accuracy 
of prediction models. A multivariate logistic regression was performed in order 
to identify factors associated to in-hospital mortality. All diagnoses 
significantly associated to in-hospital mortality were included in the final 
model. Results: The PRIMOF ranged between 0 and 27 and was divided into four 
risk categories to allow the score interpretation. An increase in odds ratio 
values with the increase in PRIMOF score was reported in both study groups. 
Conclusions: This study showed that a simple score based on the patient' 
clinical comorbidities was able to stratify the risk of hip-fractured patients 
in terms of in-hospital mortality.
