inhabiting the Yantze River, China is critically endangered because of the 
influences of infectious disease, human activity, and water contamination. Viral 
diseases are one of the crucial factors that threatening the health of Yangtze 
finless porpoise. However, there are few studies which elaborate the viral 
diversity of Yangtze finless. Therefore, this study was performed to investigate 
the viral diversity of Yangtze finless by metagenomics. Results indicated that a 
total of 12,686,252 high-quality valid sequences were acquired and 2,172 virus 
reads were recognized. Additionally, we also obtained a total of 10,600 contigs. 
Phages was the most abundant virus in the samples and the ratio of DNA and RNA 
viruses were 69.75 and 30.25%, respectively. Arenaviridae, Ackermannviridae and 
Siphoviridae were the three most predominant families in all the samples. 
Moreover, the majority of viral genus were Mammarenavirus, Limestonevirus and 
Lambdavirus. The results of gene prediction indicated that these viruses play 
vital roles in biological process, cellular component, molecular function, and 
disease. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on the viral 
diversity of Yangtze finless porpoise, which filled the gaps in its viral 
information. Meanwhile, this study can also provide a theoretical basis for the 
establishment of the prevention and protection system for virus disease of 
Yangtze finless porpoise.

Copyright © 2022 Liu, Ding, Haider, Ali, Yu, Chen, Tan, Zu, Liu, Ding, Zheng, 
Zheng, Qian, Ashfaq, Yu and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2022.922623
PMCID: PMC9478467
PMID: 36118360

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


984. Front Nutr. 2022 Sep 2;9:970729. doi: 10.3389/fnut.2022.970729. eCollection 
2022.

Prognostic significance of postoperative loss of skeletal muscle mass in 
patients underwent coronary artery bypass grafting.

Shen ZL(1), Liu Z(2), Zhang P(2), Chen WZ(1), Dong WX(3), Chen WH(3), Lin F(1), 
Zang WF(2), Yan XL(4), Yu Z(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, 
Tongji University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery, Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, 
Tongji University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, China.
(4)Department of Colorectal Anal Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, China.

BACKGROUND: Increasing life expectancy of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) 
remains to be the major concern of cardiac surgeons. However, few studies have 
investigated the effect of postoperative skeletal muscle index (SMI) loss on 
prognosis. This study aims to evaluate the prognostic role of postoperative SMI 
loss ≥ 5% after CABG, in order to develop a novel nomogram to predict overall 
survival (OS).
METHODS: Patients underwent CABG via midline sternotomy from December 2015 to 
March 2021 were recruited in this study. Preoperative and postoperative 3 months 
chest computed tomography (CT) images were compared to assess changes in SMI at 
T12 level. Based on this, patients were classified into the presence or absence 
of SMI loss ≥ 5%. The association between postoperative SMI loss ≥ 5% and OS was 
then analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier curves and Cox model. A novel nomogram 
incorporating independent clinical prognostic variables was also developed.
RESULTS: The study enrolled 506 patients receiving CABG, of whom 98 patients 
experienced T12 SMI loss ≥ 5% and had a significantly worse OS (P < 0.0001). 
Multivariate regression analysis showed that T12 SMI per cent change (%T12 
SMI-change) was an independent prognostic factor for OS (HR = 0.809, 95% CI = 
0.749-0.874). The nomogram incorporating %T12 SMI-change with other variables 
was accurate for predicting OS. Besides, we also found that postoperative oral 
nutritional supplement (ONS) can rescue T12 SMI loss.
CONCLUSION: Postoperative SMI loss can predict survival outcome after CABG. The 
nomogram incorporating changes in SMI provides a superior performance than 
existing systems.

Copyright © 2022 Shen, Liu, Zhang, Chen, Dong, Chen, Lin, Zang, Yan and Yu.

DOI: 10.3389/fnut.2022.970729
PMCID: PMC9478409
PMID: 36118747

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


985. Mo Med. 2022 Jul-Aug;119(4):321-333.

Reversing the Decreasing Life Expectancy: A National Health Priority.

Lichtenberg K(1).

Author information:
(1)Physician Director of Enhanced Personal Health Care at Anthem in St. Louis, 
Missouri, and Missouri Medicine Board Member in Public Health.

Erratum in
    Mo Med. 2022 Nov-Dec;119(6):544.

PMCID: PMC9462908
PMID: 36118821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Front Genet. 2022 Sep 2;13:990683. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2022.990683.
eCollection  2022.

Identification and expression analysis of sex biased miRNAs in chinese hook 
snout carp Opsariichthys bidens.

Tang R(1)(2), Xu C(1)(2), Zhu Y(1)(3), Yan J(4), Yao Z(5), Zhou W(3), Gui 
L(1)(2), Li M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Integrated Rice-fish Farming, Ministry of Agriculture and 
Rural Affairs, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Exploration and Utilization of Aquatic Genetic Resources, 
Ministry of Education, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Eco-Environmental Protection Research Institute, Shanghai Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of Cell Biology, School of Life Sciences, Central South 
University, Changsha, China.
(5)Lishui Fishery Technical Extension Station, Lishui, Zhejiang, China.

As an economically important fish, Opsariichthys bidens has obvious sexual 
dimorphism and strong reproductive capacity, but no epigenetics study can well 
explain its phenotypic variations. In recent years, many microRNAs involved in 
the regulation of reproductive development have been explored. In this study, 
the small RNA libraries of O. bidens on the testis and ovary were constructed 
and sequenced. A total of 295 known miRNAs were obtained and 100 novel miRNAs 
were predicted. By comparing testis and ovary libraries, 115 differentially 
expressed (DE) miRNAs were selected, of which 53 were up-regulated and 62 were 
down-regulated. A total of 64 GO items (padj < 0.01) and 206 KEGG pathways (padj 
< 0.01) were enriched in the target gene of miRNA. After that, the expression 
levels of nine DE miRNAs, including let-7a, miR-146b, miR-18c, miR-202-5p, 
miR-135c, miR-9-5p, miR-34c-3p, miR-460-5p and miR-338 were verified by qRT-PCR. 
Furthermore, bidirectional prediction of DE miRNAs and sex-related genes was 
carried out and the targeting correlation between miR-9-5p and nanos1 was 
verified by Dual-Luciferase reporter assay. Our findings identified the 
differentially expressed miRNA and paved the way to new possibilities for the 
follow-up study on the mechanism of miRNA-mRNA interaction in the gonads of O. 
bidens.

Copyright © 2022 Tang, Xu, Zhu, Yan, Yao, Zhou, Gui and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2022.990683
PMCID: PMC9478731
PMID: 36118893

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


987. J Family Med Prim Care. 2022 Jun;11(6):2834-2838. doi: 
10.4103/jfmpc.jfmpc_2063_21. Epub 2022 Jun 30.

Body mass index among elderly population and its association with neurological 
and musculoskeletal diseases in Aseer, Saudi Arabia.

Assiri YMA(1), Alhayyani RMA(2), Alshahrany AMM(1), Othman LMAB(1), Alqahtani 
NA(1).

Author information:
(1)Family Medicine Resident (PGY3), Joint Program of Family, Abha, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Family Medicine Resident (PGY4), Joint Program of Family, Abha, Saudi Arabia.

INTRODUCTION: An increase in BMI in the elderly may reduce life expectancy and 
increase the risk of death, cardiovascular disease, and metabolic syndrome. 
Frailty index, body weight, and pain levels all seem to be linked. Excessively 
low or high body weight may cause muscle weakness and decrease physical 
activity, placing the elderly at risk for frailty.
METHODOLOGY: This was a cross-sectional study to investigate BMI among the 
elderly and neurological and musculoskeletal diseases in the Aseer region, Saudi 
Arabia conducted during the period from 5 January, 2020 to 26 February, 2020. 
The data were collected using a self-administered pre-designed questionnaire, 
and 503 full forms of eligible subjects were included.
RESULTS: A total of 503 participants were included in this study, 61.2% of them 
were female, with a mean age of 67 ± 9. The mean BMI was 31.1 ± 7.5. 
Parkinsonism and hemiplegia were significantly associated with BMI (P = 0.003) 
and (P = 0.027), respectively. Osteoporosis and participants with no 
musculoskeletal problems were significantly associated with BMI (P = 0.001) and 
(P = 0.003), respectively.
CONCLUSION: We found a significant association between Parkinsonism and 
hemiplegia and BMI as these conditions were more common among overweight 
patients. Moreover, osteoporosis was also significantly associated with BMI, and 
most of the patients with osteoporosis were underweight.

Copyright: © 2022 Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care.

DOI: 10.4103/jfmpc.jfmpc_2063_21
PMCID: PMC9480713
PMID: 36119235

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


988. Front Plant Sci. 2022 Sep 2;13:938859. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2022.938859. 
eCollection 2022.

RNA sequencing and weighted gene co-expression network analysis uncover the hub 
genes controlling cold tolerance in Helictotrichon virescens seedlings.

Cheng M(1)(2), Pan Z(3), Cui K(4), Zheng J(3), Luo X(5), Chen Y(1), Yang T(3), 
Wang H(1), Li X(3), Zhou Y(3), Lei X(6), Li Y(3), Zhang R(2), Iqbal MZ(3)(7), He 
R(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, Southwest Minzu University, Chengdu, 
China.
(2)Sichuan Grass Industry Technology Research and Promotion Center, Chengdu, 
China.
(3)Maize Research Institute, Sichuan Agricultural University, Chengdu, China.
(4)Sichuan Agricultural Technology Extension Station, Chengdu, China.
(5)Institute of Agricultural Information and Rural Economy, Sichuan Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Chengdu, China.
(6)Sichuan Academy of Grassland Science, Chengdu, China.
(7)College of Grassland Science and Technology, Sichuan Agricultural University, 
Chengdu, China.

Helictotrichon virescens is a perennial herbaceous plant with a life expectancy 
of about 10 years. It has high cold and heat resistance and can successfully 
survive over winter in the habitats with a temperature range of -25 to 25°C. 
Therefore, this study aimed to identify the key genes regulating low-temperature 
stress responses in H. virescens and analyze cold tolerant at molecular level. 
This study used RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and weighted gene co-expression network 
analysis (WGCNA) to identify the hub genes associated with cold tolerance in H. 
virescens. RT-PCR was conducted, homologous genes were identified, and related 
bioinformatics were analyzed to verify the identified hub genes. Moreover, WGCNA 
analysis showed that only the brown module had the highest correlation with the 
active-oxygen scavenging enzymes [peroxide (POD), superoxide dismutase (SOD), 
and catalase (CAT)]. The expression levels of three hub genes in the brown 
module (Cluster-37118.47362, cluster-37118.47713, and cluster-37118.66740) were 
significantly higher under low-temperature stress than those under control 
conditions. Furthermore, gene ontology (GO) and KEGG annotations showed that the 
three hub genes were mainly enriched in the metabolism pathways of 
sphingolipids, selenocompounds, glyoxylate, and dicarboxylate, carotenoids 
biosynthesis, and other biological pathways. The results of this study also 
showed that the subcellular localization prediction results showed that the cold 
tolerance hub genes were all localized to the plasma membrane. By constructing a 
protein interaction network, it was found that the hub gene Cluster-37118.66740 
interacted with Sb09g003460.1 and Sb04g020180.1 proteins in Sorghum bicolor. By 
constructing phylogenetic trees of the four species of H. virescens, Sorghum 
bicolo, Oryza sativa Japonica, and Arabidopsis thaliana, the results showed 
that, the hub gene Cluster 37118.66740 (of H. virescens) and Os03g0340500 (of 
Oryza sativa Japonica) belonged to the same ancestral branch and were in the 
same subfamily. Thus, this study provides methodology and guidance to identify 
the cold tolerance genes for other herbage and their cold tolerant molecular 
mechanisms at molecular level.

Copyright © 2022 Cheng, Pan, Cui, Zheng, Luo, Chen, Yang, Wang, Li, Zhou, Lei, 
Li, Zhang, Iqbal and He.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2022.938859
PMCID: PMC9478469
PMID: 36119608

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


989. Acta Ophthalmol. 2023 Mar;101(2):e205-e214. doi: 10.1111/aos.15250. Epub
2022  Sep 19.

Posterior stromal ripples increase risk of Descemet's membrane endothelial 
keratoplasty graft detachment worsening over time.

Coco G(1)(2), Levis HJ(3), Borgia A(1), Romano D(1), Pagano L(1), Virgili G(4), 
Kaye SB(1)(3), Romano V(1)(3)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Ophthalmology, Royal Liverpool University Hospital, Liverpool, UK.
(2)Department of Clinical Science and Translational Medicine, University of Rome 
Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy.
(3)Eye and Vision Science, Institute of Life Course and Medical Sciences, 
University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
(4)Department of Neurosciences, Psychology, Drug Research and Child Health 
(NEUROFARBA), Ophthalmology Clinic, University of Firenze and AOU Careggi, 
Florence, Italy.
(5)Instituto Universitario, Universidad de Oviedo and Fundacion de Investigacion 
Oftalmologica, Oviedo, Spain.
(6)Department of Medical and Surgical Specialties, Radiological Sciences, and 
Public Health, Ophthalmology Clinic, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.

PURPOSE: To evaluate anterior segment optical coherence tomography (AS-OCT) 
features of Descemet's membrane endothelial keratoplasty (DMEK) grafts 
associated with graft attachment worsening over time.
METHODS: Retrospective case series on patients who received uncomplicated DMEK 
surgery and for whom subsequent AS-OCT data were available for analysis. 
Patients' demographics and surgical details were collected. AS-OCT was analysed 
for graft detachment axial extension, presence of posterior stromal ripples, 
quadrant involvement (location and number), degree of detachment extension, 
peripheral roll, presence and amount of air in the anterior chamber (AC). 
Features associated with re-bubbling and graft detachment worsening over time 
were identified.
RESULTS: A total of 147 patients with a mean age of 70.8 ± 9.8 years (63% 
females) were included. AS-OCT was performed at 2.9 ± 2.4 days after surgery. 
AS-OCT factors associated with re-bubbling were posterior stromal ripples 
(p = 0.004) and detachment axial extension (p < 0.001). At first follow-up, of 
the 147 DMEK, 67 showed complete attachment and 80 partial detachment. In those 
cases of initially completely attached grafts, posterior stromal ripples were 
associated with the risk of subsequent graft detachment (p = 0.014) together 
with recipient age (p = 0.043), phaco-combined surgery (p = 0.018) and AS-OCT 
timing (p = 0.033); while, in the initially partially detached grafts, 
detachment worsening was associated with posterior stromal ripples (p = 0.025), 
detachment axial extension (p = 0.003), degrees of detachment involvement 
(p = 0.029), peripheral roll-in shape (p = 0.033) and presence of air in the AC 
(p = 0.032). Relative risk (RR) of graft detachment worsening in patients with 
moderate/severe posterior stromal ripples was 1.75 (95% CI = 1.09-2.81).
CONCLUSION: Posterior stromal ripples and detachment axial extension >1/3 of 
graft surface area were the main risk factors for detachment worsening over 
time, and patients showing these features should be monitored closely to 
identify the need for re-bubbling at an early stage, thus improving surgical 
outcomes.

© 2022 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.15250
PMID: 36120722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. J Aging Health. 2022 Dec;34(9-10):1291-1301. doi: 10.1177/08982643221125845.
 Epub 2022 Sep 17.

Duration of Dementia and Social Service Use in the U.S.-Born and Foreign-Born 
Mexican-American Population.

Angel JL(1), Rote S(2), Vega WA(3), Kim J(1), Chiu CT(4), Aranda M(5), Wang 
J(4).

Author information:
(1)Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs, Center on Aging and Population 
Sciences,12330 The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, USA.
(2)Kent School of Social Work, 5170University of Louisville, Louisville, KY, 
USA.
(3)5450ORED, Florida International University, Miami, FL, USA.
(4)Institute of European and American Studies, 38017Academia Sinica, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(5)USC Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work, USC Edward R. Roybal Institute 
on Aging, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The study estimates the number of years after age 65 that Mexican 
Americans live with likely dementia and the impact of dementia on 
community-based services (CBS) use by nativity.
METHODS: Using the Hispanic Established Populations for the Epidemiologic 
Studies of the Elderly Sullivan methods are employed to predict duration of 
dementia and logistic regressions identify the predictors of service 
utilization.
RESULTS: Foreign-born women spend more years than other groups with dementia. 
The foreign-born are more likely to use out-of-home services, whereas U.S.-born 
are more likely to use in-home services. The foreign-born with dementia of 
relatively recent onset had the highest probability of service use.
DISCUSSION: Given the high cost of institutional care and availability of family 
caregivers, community-based services are a potentially useful alternative for 
the growing Mexican-American population living with dementia. Expanded Medicaid 
and CBS programs could be an equitable and cost-effective alternative that 
should be investigated.

DOI: 10.1177/08982643221125845
PMID: 36120932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Acta Derm Venereol. 2022 Oct 10;102:adv00787. doi: 10.2340/actadv.v102.2269.

Sustained Resolution of Nail Psoriasis Through 5 Years with Ixekizumab: A 
Post-Hoc analysis from UNCOVER-3.

Egeberg A(1), Kristensen LE, Vender R, Zaheri S, El Baou C, Gallo G, Riedl E, 
Schuster C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Bispebjerg Hospital, University of Copenhagen, 
DK-2400 Copenhagen, Denmark. alexander.egeberg@gmail.com.

Nail psoriasis is a chronic, difficult-to-treat condition affecting almost half 
of patients with psoriasis. It is associated with considerable social stigma and 
impairment of patients' quality of life. The aim of this study was to assess 
improvements in objective measures of nail psoriasis among patients from the 
long-term extension of the UNCOVER-3 study who received the interleukin-17A 
inhibitor ixekizumab and had either any degree of nail psoriasis (Nail Psoriasis 
Severity Index (NAPSI) >=1) or significant nail psoriasis (fingernail NAPSI ≥ 16 
and ≥ 4 fingernails involved) at baseline. Efficacy outcomes reported through 
week 264 included the mean percentage improvements from baseline in NAPSI score 
and the proportion of patients achieving nail psoriasis resolution (NAPSI=0). In 
UNCOVER-3, 56.9% (219/385) of patients had nail psoriasis at baseline; of those, 
61.2% (134/219) had significant nail psoriasis. At week 60, a total of 66.9% and 
59.1% of patients with baseline nail psoriasis and significant baseline nail 
psoriasis, respectively, reported complete clearance of nail psoriasis, an 
effect which was sustained through week 264. This analysis demonstrates that 
continuous treatment with ixekizumab in adult patients with 
moderate-to-severe-psoriasis through 264 weeks was associated with improvements 
and clearance of fingernail psoriasis, irrespective of the severity of nail 
psoriasis at baseline.

DOI: 10.2340/actadv.v102.2269
PMCID: PMC9677273
PMID: 36121210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: AE received research 
funding from AbbVie, Danish National Psoriasis Foundation, Eli Lilly and 
Company, Janssen, Kgl. Hofbundtmager Aage Bangs Foundation, Novartis, Pfizer and 
Simon Spies Foundation, received consulting fees from AbbVie, Almirall, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Dermavant, Eli Lilly and Company, Galderma, Janssen, LEO 
Pharma, Mylan, Novartis, Pfizer, Samsung Bioepis Co., Ltd, UCB and Union 
Therapeutics, payment for honoraria or speaking from AbbVie, Almirall, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Dermavant, Eli Lilly and Company, Galderma, Janssen, LEO 
Pharma, Mylan, Novartis, Pfizer, Samsung Bioepis Co., Ltd, and UCB, support for 
congress travel from AbbVie, and participation on a data safety monitoring or 
advisory board from Samsung Bioepis Co., Ltd. LEK received research grants from 
Pfizer, AbbVie, UCB, Gilead, Biogen, Novartis, Eli Lilly and Company, and 
Janssen Pharmaceuticals, has received consulting fees from Pfizer, AbbVie, 
Amgen, UCB, Gilead, Biogen, BMS, MSD, Novartis, Eli Lilly and Company, and 
Janssen Pharmaceuticals, and fees for speaking from Pfizer, AbbVie, Amgen, UCB, 
Gilead, Biogen, BMS, MSD, Novartis, Eli Lilly and Company, and Janssen 
Pharmaceuticals. RV has received grants or research funding from AbbVie, Amgen, 
Arcutis, Bausch Health, BMS, Celgene, Centocor, Dermira, Dermavant, Galderma, 
GSK, Innovaderm, Janssen, Leo, Eli Lilly and Company, Meiji, Takeda, Novartis, 
Merck, Pfizer, Regeneron, UCB consulting fees from AbbVie, Actelion, Amgen, 
Aralez, Arcutis, Bausch-Health, Boehringer Ingelheim, BMS, Celgene, Cipher, 
Janssen, Galderma, GSK, Kabi-Care, Leo, Eli Lilly and Company, Merck, Novartis, 
Palladin, Pfizer, Sandoz, SUN, UCB, Viatris-Mylan, fees for speakers bureau or 
honoraria from AbbVie, Actelion, Amgen, Bausch-Health, Celgene, Cipher, Janssen, 
Galderma, GSK, Leo, Eli Lilly and Company, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, UCB, and 
support for meetings and/or travel from AbbVie, Amgen, Bausch Health, Celgene, 
Galderma, Janssen, Leo, Lilly, Novartis, UCB. SZ has served as an advisory board 
member or received fees and speaker’s honoraria from AbbVie, Biogen, LEO Pharma, 
and Novartis. CEB was an independent contractor working for Eli Lilly and 
Company at the time of writing GG, ER, CS are employees and shareholders of Eli 
Lilly and Company.


992. PLoS Comput Biol. 2022 Sep 19;18(9):e1009540. doi:
10.1371/journal.pcbi.1009540.  eCollection 2022 Sep.

Omitting age-dependent mosquito mortality in malaria models underestimates the 
effectiveness of insecticide-treated nets.

Iacovidou MA(1)(2), Barreaux P(3), Spencer SEF(2)(4), Thomas MB(5), Gorsich 
EE(2)(6), Rock KS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Mathematics Institute, University of Warwick, Coventry, United Kingdom.
(2)The Zeeman Institute for Systems Biology and Infectious Disease Epidemiology 
Research, University of Warwick, Coventry, United Kingdom.
(3)Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Statistics, University of Warwick, Coventry, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Biology, University of York, York, United Kingdom.
(6)School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick, Coventry, United Kingdom.

Mathematical models of vector-borne infections, including malaria, often assume 
age-independent mortality rates of vectors, despite evidence that many insects 
senesce. In this study we present survival data on insecticide-resistant 
Anopheles gambiae s.l. from experiments in Côte d'Ivoire. We fit a constant 
mortality function and two age-dependent functions (logistic and Gompertz) to 
the data from mosquitoes exposed (treated) and not exposed (control) to 
insecticide-treated nets (ITNs), to establish biologically realistic survival 
functions. This enables us to explore the effects of insecticide exposure on 
mosquito mortality rates, and the extent to which insecticide resistance might 
impact the effectiveness of ITNs. We investigate this by calculating the 
expected number of infectious bites a mosquito will take in its lifetime, and by 
extension the vectorial capacity. Our results show that the predicted vectorial 
capacity is substantially lower in mosquitoes exposed to ITNs, despite the 
mosquitoes in the experiment being highly insecticide-resistant. The more 
realistic age-dependent functions provide a better fit to the experimental data 
compared to a constant mortality function and, hence, influence the predicted 
impact of ITNs on malaria transmission potential. In models with age-independent 
mortality, there is a great reduction for the vectorial capacity under exposure 
compared to no exposure. However, the two age-dependent functions predicted an 
even larger reduction due to exposure, highlighting the impact of incorporating 
age in the mortality rates. These results further show that multiple exposures 
to ITNs had a considerable effect on the vectorial capacity. Overall, the study 
highlights the importance of including age dependency in mathematical models of 
vector-borne disease transmission and in fully understanding the impact of 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1009540
PMCID: PMC9522293
PMID: 36121847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


993. Epilepsy Behav. 2022 Oct;135:108901. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2022.108901. Epub
2022  Sep 16.

Assessment of the long-term efficacy and safety of adjunctive perampanel in 
adolescent patients with epilepsy: Post hoc analysis of open-label extension 
studies.

Piña-Garza JE(1), Villanueva V(2), Rosenfeld W(3), Yoshinaga H(4), Patten A(5), 
Malhotra M(6).

Author information:
(1)The Children's Hospital at TriStar Centennial, 330 23rd Avenue North, Suite 
580, Nashville, TN 37203, USA. Electronic address: 
jesus.pinagarza@hcahealthcare.com.
(2)Hospital Universitario y Politécnico La Fe, Avinguda de Fernando Abril 
Martorell 106, 46026 Valencia, Spain. Electronic address: 
villanueva_vichab@gva.es.
(3)Comprehensive Epilepsy Care Center for Children and Adults, 11134 Conway 
Road, St. Louis, MO 63131, USA. Electronic address: werosenfeldmd@gmail.com.
(4)National Hospital Organization, Minami-Okayama Medical Center, 4066 
Hayashimacho Hayashima, Tsukubo-gun, Okayama 701-0304, Japan. Electronic 
address: yoshinaga.harumi.aq@mail.hosp.go.jp.
(5)Eisai Europe Ltd., Mosquito Way, Hatfield, Hertfordshire AL10 9SN, UK. 
Electronic address: Anna_Patten@eisai.net.
(6)Formerly: Eisai Inc., 200 Metro Blvd., Nutley, NJ 07110, USA. Electronic 
address: manoj_malhotra@eisai.com.

OBJECTIVE: This post hoc analysis of four open-label extension (OLEx) studies 
evaluated the long-term efficacy and safety of adjunctive perampanel in 
adolescent patients (aged 12 to ≤17 years) with focal-onset seizures (FOS), 
with/without focal to bilateral tonic-clonic seizures (FBTCS), or generalized 
tonic-clonic seizures (GTCS).
METHODS: Patients who completed one of six double-blind, placebo-controlled 
studies could enter one of four OLEx studies comprising a blinded Conversion 
Period (6-16 weeks) followed by a Maintenance Phase (27 to ≤256 weeks; 
perampanel dose: ≤12 mg/day). Exposure, retention, seizure outcomes, and 
treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were analyzed. Efficacy outcomes were 
analyzed using observed case and last observation carried forward (LOCF) 
approaches; the latter was used to account for early dropouts.
RESULTS: The Full Analysis Set comprised 309 adolescents with FOS (FBTCS, 
n = 109) and 19 with GTCS, and the Safety Analysis Set comprised 311 with FOS 
(FBTCS, n = 110) and 19 with GTCS. Mean (standard deviation) cumulative duration 
of perampanel exposure (weeks) was: FOS, 77.7 (58.7); FBTCS, 88.7 (63.8); and 
GTCS, 97.0 (35.5). Retention rates were maintained for ≤2 years (FOS, 50.0 %; 
FBTCS, 57.1 %; GTCS, 41.7 %). Seizure control (median percent reduction in 
seizure frequency/28 days) was sustained for up to 2 years; FOS (59.4 %, 
n = 113), FBTCS (64.6 %, n = 53), and GTCS (86.5 %, n = 17). At Year 2, 50 % 
responder rates were: FOS, 58.4 % (n = 66); FBTCS, 54.7 % (n = 29); and GTCS, 
82.4 % (n = 14); seizure-freedom rates were: FOS, 5.3 % (n = 6); FBTCS, 24.5 % 
(n = 13); and GTCS, 35.3 % (n = 6). Long-term seizure control was observed even 
in LOCF analyses. The incidence of TEAEs was highest during Year 1 (FOS, n = 269 
[86.5 %]; FBTCS, n = 95 [86.4 %]; GTCS, n = 15 [78.9 %]), compared with Years 
2-4; the most common (≥10 % of patients) were dizziness, somnolence, and 
nasopharyngitis. No new safety signals emerged with long-term treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: This post hoc analysis suggests that long-term (≤2 years) 
adjunctive perampanel (≤12 mg/day) is efficacious and generally well tolerated 
in adolescent patients with FOS, with or without FBTCS, or GTCS.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2022.108901
PMID: 36122531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: J Eric Piña-Garza has served as an 
advisor and speaker for Aquestive, Eisai, Jazz/Greenwich Biosciences, Neurelis, 
SK Life Science, Sunovion, Supernus, and UCB Pharma. Vicente Villanueva has 
participated in advisory boards and pharmaceutical-industry–sponsored symposia 
for Angellini, Arvelle, Bial, Eisai, Esteve, GW Pharmaceuticals, Novartis, 
Pfizer, Takeda, UCB Pharma, and Zogenix. William Rosenfeld has served on the 
speaker’s bureau for Eisai, Greenwich Biosciences, SK Life Science, Sunovion, 
and UCB Pharma, has received research support from GW Pharmaceuticals, Marinus, 
Medtronic, SK Life Science, Takeda, UCB Pharma, and Upsher-Smith, and is a 
consultant for SK Life Science. Kazunori Saeki is an employee of Eisai Co., Ltd. 
Harumi Yoshinaga has served as the chairman of the appropriate use committee for 
Sabril; as a consultant for Sanofi; and as a speaker for Eisai, Takeda, and UCB 
Japan. Anna Patten is an employee of Eisai Europe Ltd. Manoj Malhotra is a 
former employee of Eisai Inc.


994. Ophthalmology. 2023 Feb;130(2):139-151. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2022.09.009.
Epub  2022 Sep 17.

Laser in Glaucoma and Ocular Hypertension (LiGHT) Trial: Six-Year Results of 
Primary Selective Laser Trabeculoplasty versus Eye Drops for the Treatment of 
Glaucoma and Ocular Hypertension.

Gazzard G(1), Konstantakopoulou E(2), Garway-Heath D(3), Adeleke M(4), 
Vickerstaff V(5), Ambler G(6), Hunter R(7), Bunce C(8), Nathwani N(3), Barton 
K(3); LiGHT Trial Study Group.

Author information:
(1)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre at Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation 
Trust, London, United Kingdom; Institute of Ophthalmology, University College 
London, London, United Kingdom. Electronic address: g.gazzard@nhs.net.
(2)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre at Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation 
Trust, London, United Kingdom; Institute of Ophthalmology, University College 
London, London, United Kingdom; Division of Optics and Optometry, University of 
West Attica, Athens, Greece.
(3)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre at Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation 
Trust, London, United Kingdom; Institute of Ophthalmology, University College 
London, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Statistical Science, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom; PRIMENT Clinical Trials Unit, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom.
(5)The Research Department of Primary Care and Population Health, University 
College London, London, United Kingdom; Marie Curie Palliative Care Research 
Department, UCL Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, 
United Kingdom.
(6)Department of Statistical Science, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom.
(7)PRIMENT Clinical Trials Unit, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom.
(8)Research Data and Statistics Unit, Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, United Kingdom; London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, 
United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: The Laser in Glaucoma and Ocular Hypertension (LiGHT) Trial has shown 
selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) to be clinically and cost-effective as a 
primary treatment of open-angle glaucoma (OAG) and ocular hypertension (OHT) at 
3 years. This article reports health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and 
clinical effectiveness of initial treatment with SLT compared with intraocular 
pressure (IOP)-lowering eye drops after 6 years of treatment.
DESIGN: Prospective, multicenter randomized controlled trial.
PARTICIPANTS: Treatment-naive eyes with OAG or OHT initially treated with SLT or 
IOP-lowering drops.
METHODS: Patients were allocated randomly to initial SLT or eye drops. After the 
initial 3 years of the trial, patients in the SLT arm were permitted a third SLT 
if necessary; patients in the drops arm were allowed SLT as a treatment switch 
or escalation. This study is registered at controlled-trials.com (identifier, 
ISRCTN32038223).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was HRQoL at 6 years; secondary 
outcomes were clinical effectiveness and adverse events.
RESULTS: Of the 692 patients completing 3 years in the LiGHT Trial, 633 patients 
(91.5%) entered the extension, and 524 patients completed 6 years in the trial 
(82.8% of those entering the extension phase). At 6 years, no significant 
differences were found for the EuroQol EQ-5D 5 Levels, Glaucoma Utility Index, 
and Glaucoma Quality of Life-15 (P > 0.05 for all). The SLT arm showed better 
Glaucoma Symptom Scale scores than the drops arm (83.6 ± 18.1 vs. 81.3 ± 17.3, 
respectively). Of eyes in the SLT arm, 69.8% remained at or less than the target 
IOP without the need for medical or surgical treatment. More eyes in the drops 
arm exhibited disease progression (26.8% vs. 19.6%, respectively; P = 0.006). 
Trabeculectomy was required in 32 eyes in the drops arm compared with 13 eyes in 
the SLT arm (P < 0.001); more cataract surgeries occurred in the drops arm (95 
compared with 57 eyes; P = 0.03). No serious laser-related adverse events 
occurred.
CONCLUSIONS: Selective laser trabeculoplasty is a safe treatment for OAG and 
OHT, providing better long-term disease control than initial drop therapy, with 
reduced need for incisional glaucoma and cataract surgery over 6 years.

Copyright © 2022 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2022.09.009
PMID: 36122660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Cold Spring Harb Perspect Med. 2023 Apr 3;13(4):a041200. doi: 
10.1101/cshperspect.a041200.

Biological Restraints on Indefinite Survival.

Vijg J(1), Austad SN(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New York 
10461, USA jan.vijg@einsteinmed.edu austad@uab.edu.
(2)Protective Life Endowed Chair in Healthy Aging Research, Department of 
Biology, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama 35233, USA 
jan.vijg@einsteinmed.edu austad@uab.edu.

Multiple observations that organismal life span can be extended by nutritional, 
genetic, or pharmacological intervention has raised the prospect of transforming 
medicine with the goal of slowing, stopping, or even reversing age-associated 
disease and maintaining or restoring health and resilience in the increasing 
numbers of elderly across the world. The potential for such an enterprise is 
supported in theory by plant and animal models of negligible senescence, most 
notably the small, freshwater organism Hydra spp. The existence of some very 
long-lived species, including bowhead whale, Greenland shark, and giant 
tortoises, suggests that increased healthy life spans in humans, significantly 
higher than the current known maximum life span of about 120 years, may be 
possible. Here we discuss the biological restraints on human life extension 
based on the evolutionary basis of aging and our current genetic and molecular 
insights into the processes responsible for age-related loss of function and 
increased disease risk.

Copyright © 2023 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press; all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1101/cshperspect.a041200
PMCID: PMC10071417
PMID: 36122931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. BMJ Open. 2022 Sep 19;12(9):e058351. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-058351.

Self-reported measurements of physical literacy in adults: a scoping review.

Ryom K(1), Hargaard AS(2), Melby PS(3), Maindal HT(2)(3), Bentsen P(4), 
Ntoumanis N(5)(6), Schoeppe S(7), Nielsen G(8)(9), Elsborg P(3)(4)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark 
knudryom@ph.au.dk.
(2)Department of Public Health, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)Health Promotion Research, Steno Diabetes Center Copenhagen, Gentofte, 
Denmark.
(4)Center for Clinical Research and Prevention, Bispebjerg Research Unit, 
Kobenhavn, Denmark.
(5)Department of Sports Science and Clinical Biomechanics, Danish Centre for 
Motivation and Behavior Science, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, 
Denmark.
(6)School of Health and Welfare, Halmstad University, Halmstad, Sweden.
(7)Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(8)Department of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports, University of Copenhagen, 
Kobenhavns, Denmark.
(9)Department of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports, University of Copenhagen, 
Kobenhavn, Denmark.

Physical literacy (PL) is a comprehensive concept covering motivation, 
confidence, physical competence, knowledge and understanding of individuals' 
physical activity throughout life. PL has three overlapping domains, such as: an 
affective, a physical and a cognitive domain. So far, PL has not been measured 
in the adults and no complete measurement has been developed to date.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this scoping review was to review existing self-reported 
instruments measuring different elements of domains of PL.
METHOD: We reviewed Education Research Complete, Cochrane, Medline, 
ScienceDirect, Scopus and SPORTDiscus. The reporting followed the Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping 
Reviews guidelines. Studies were coded using a thematic framework, which was 
based on the three domains of PL. The eligibility criteria were as follows: (1) 
age groups between 18 and 60 years; (2) meta-analyses, reviews or quantitative 
studies focusing on the measurement of at least one of the three domains of PL 
and (3) instrument that was self-reported. We finalised search on 1 August 2021 
RESULTS: In total, 67 articles were identified as studies describing instruments 
reflecting the three domains of PL. Following full-text reading, 21 articles 
that met our inclusion criteria were included. Several instruments of relevance 
to PL are available for assessing motivation, confidence and the physical 
domain. However, few instruments exist that measure elements of the cognitive 
domain.
CONCLUSION: This review showed that a range of existing and validated 
instruments exists, covering two out of the three domains of PL, namely 
affective and physical domains. However, for the knowledge domain no valid 
measurement tools could be found. This scoping review has identified gaps in the 
research (namely the cognitive domain) and also a gap in the research as no 
measures that consider the inter-relatedness of the three domains (holistic 
nature of the concept).

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-058351
PMCID: PMC9486222
PMID: 36123090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


997. Pharmacoeconomics. 2022 Dec;40(Suppl 2):205-215. doi: 
10.1007/s40273-022-01190-2. Epub 2022 Sep 20.

Value Set for the EQ-5D-Y-3L in Hungary.

Rencz F(1), Ruzsa G(2)(3), Bató A(4)(5), Yang Z(6), Finch AP(7), Brodszky V(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, Corvinus University of Budapest, 8 Fővám tér, 
1093, Budapest, Hungary. fanni.rencz@uni-corvinus.hu.
(2)Department of Statistics, Corvinus University of Budapest, Budapest, Hungary.
(3)Doctoral School of Psychology, Institute of Psychology, Eötvös Loránd 
University, Budapest, Hungary.
(4)Department of Health Policy, Corvinus University of Budapest, 8 Fővám tér, 
1093, Budapest, Hungary.
(5)Károly Rácz Doctoral School of Clinical Medicine, Semmelweis University, 
Budapest, Hungary.
(6)Health Services Management Department, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang, 
China.
(7)EuroQol Office, EuroQol Research Foundation, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The Hungarian health technology assessment guidelines recommend the 
use of the EuroQol instrument family in quality-adjusted life-year calculations. 
However, no national value set exists for the EQ-5D-Y-3L or any other 
youth-specific instrument.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to develop a national value set of the EQ-5D-Y-3L for 
Hungary based on preferences of the general adult population.
METHODS: This study followed the international valuation protocol for the 
EQ-5D-Y-3L. Two independent samples, representative of the Hungarian general 
adult population in terms of age and sex were recruited to complete online 
discrete choice experiment (DCE) tasks and composite time trade-off (cTTO) tasks 
by computer-assisted personal interviews. Adults valued hypothetical EQ-5D-Y-3L 
health states considering the health of a 10-year-old child. DCE data were 
modelled using a mixed logit model with random-correlated coefficients. Latent 
DCE utility estimates were mapped onto mean observed cTTO utilities using 
ordinary least squares regression.
RESULTS: Overall, 996 and 200 respondents completed the DCE and cTTO surveys, 
respectively. For each domain, the value set resulted in larger utility 
decrements with more severe response levels. The relative importance of domains 
by level 3 coefficients was as follows: having pain or discomfort > feeling 
worried, sad or unhappy > mobility > doing usual activities > looking after 
myself. Overall, 12.3% of all health states had negative utilities in the value 
set, with the worst health state having the lowest predicted utility of - 0.485.
CONCLUSION: This study developed a national value set of the EQ-5D-Y-3L for 
Hungary. The value set enables to evaluate the cost utility of health 
technologies for children and adolescents based on societal preferences in 
Hungary.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-022-01190-2
PMCID: PMC9485017
PMID: 36123448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Fanni Rencz and Zhihao Yang are active members 
of the EuroQol Group. Aureliano Paolo Finch is a member of the EuroQol Group and 
is employed by the EuroQol Office, EuroQol Research Foundation. The views 
expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily 
reflect those of the EuroQol Research Foundation. Gábor Ruzsa, Alex Bató, and 
Valentin Brodszky have no conflicts of interest to declare.


998. BMC Public Health. 2022 Sep 19;22(1):1776. doi: 10.1186/s12889-022-14175-9.

The burden of mental health-related mortality in the Baltic States in 2007-2018.

Stumbrys D(1), Jasilionis D(2)(3), Pūras D(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Sociology and Social Work, Faculty of Philosophy, Vilnius 
University, Universiteto Street. 9, LT-01513, Vilnius, Lithuania. 
daumantas.stumbrys@fsf.vu.lt.
(2)Demographic Data Laboratory, Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, 
Rostock, Germany.
(3)Demographic Research Centre, Vytautas Magnus University, Kaunas, Lithuania.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, Vilnius University, Vilnius, Lithuania.

BACKGROUND: The problem of underestimating the burden of mental health-related 
mortality is widely discussed in the public health literature. Relevant 
scientific evidence from societies experiencing the largest burden of mental 
health mortality is important for better understanding global and national 
mental health challenges and improving policies. Three Baltic States - Estonia, 
Lithuania, and Latvia - are countries in the Central and Eastern European region 
that experienced post-soviet transition trauma and showed among the highest 
suicide and alcohol-related mortality rates in Europe. This study aimed to 
examine the change in the burden of mental health-related mortality in three 
Baltic States in the context of consistent growth in life expectancy in 
2007-2018.
METHODS: We calculated age-standardized years of life lost due to specific 
mental health-related causes of death in three Baltic countries from 2007 to 
2018. Four mental health-related causes of death groups were analyzed: (i) all 
mental and behavioural disorders; (ii) intentional self-harm; (iii) main 
substance use-related causes of death; and (iv) external causes of death. The 
number of deaths came from the WHO Mortality Database; population exposures were 
extracted from the Human Mortality Database.
RESULTS: We found that the proportion of age-standardized years of life lost due 
to mental disorders was relatively low in all three countries. It varied from 
0.2% for females in Lithuania in 2009 to 2.4% for males in Estonia in 2007. 
However, the proportion of age-standardized years of life lost from self-harm 
and substance use remained high. In 2018, the proportion of age-standardized 
years of life lost due to self-harm was highest among males in Lithuania (4.1%) 
while the highest proportion due to substance use-related causes of death was 
among males in Estonia (7.3%).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that the burden of mental health-related 
mortality remained high and showed divergent temporal changes across the three 
countries. In the context of the Baltic States and other post-soviet countries, 
fractions of various external causes of death and alcohol-related causes of 
death should be considered in assessing the total burden of mental 
health-related mortality.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-022-14175-9
PMCID: PMC9487037
PMID: 36123665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


999. SSM Popul Health. 2022 Aug 28;19:101216. doi: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2022.101216. 
eCollection 2022 Sep.

The role of family, school and neighbourhood in explaining inequalities in 
physical activity trajectories between age 9 and 18.

McEvoy O(1), Cronin F(2), Brannigan R(2), Stanistreet D(2), Layte R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, School of Social Sciences and Philosophy, Trinity 
College, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, Royal College of Surgeons in 
Ireland, Ireland.

Differentials in physical activity (PA) between social and economic groups has 
been shown to contribute significantly to social gradients in health and life 
expectancy, yet relatively little is known about why differentials in PA emerge. 
This paper uses longitudinal data on a nationally representative sample of 6,216 
young people aged between 9 and 18, from Ireland, to measure the role of family, 
school and neighbourhood level factors in accounting for differentials in PA 
trajectories between groups of young people, defined by level of maternal 
education, whilst adjusting for the individual characteristics of the young 
person (sex, age, personality, body mass index and health-status). Levels of PA 
fall significantly across the sample between 9 and 18, and the decline in PA is 
larger for the children of lower educated mothers. We find a clear gradient in 
PA at each age by maternal education for both males and females. Descriptive 
analyses found social gradients in the majority of our risk factors. Using 
multi-level, linear spline regression models to decompose differentials between 
groups, we find that family-level mechanisms account for the biggest proportion 
of the differential in PA for both males (50.8%) and females (35.1%). 
Differences in income across maternal education categories accounted for 24.1% 
of the differential for males and 14.7% among females, making it the second most 
effective mechanism in explaining the social patterning of PA. 
Neighbourhood-level processes resulted in a modest reduction in the same 
differential, while school level processes had the effect of equalising 
differences in PA across maternal education groups.

© 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2022.101216
PMCID: PMC9482142
PMID: 36124255

Conflict of interest statement: Authors have no conflicts of Interest to 
declare.


1000. Clin Exp Immunol. 2022 Dec 15;210(2):141-150. doi: 10.1093/cei/uxac085.

Tofacitinib treatment modulates the levels of several inflammation-related 
plasma proteins in rheumatoid arthritis and baseline levels of soluble 
biomarkers associate with the treatment response.

Valli A(1), Kuuliala K(2), Virtanen A(1), Kuuliala A(2), Palmroth M(1), Peltomaa 
R(3), Vidqvist KL(4), Leirisalo-Repo M(2)(3), Silvennoinen O(1)(5)(6), Isomäki 
P(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Immunology Group, Faculty of Medicine and Health Technology, 
Tampere University, Tampere, Finland.
(2)Department of Bacteriology and Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(3)Inflammation Center, Department of Rheumatology, Helsinki University Hospital 
and University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(4)Centre for Rheumatic Diseases, Tampere University Hospital, Tampere, Finland.
(5)Fimlab Laboratories, Pirkanmaa Hospital District, Tampere, Tampere, Finland.
(6)Institute of Biotechnology, HiLIFE Helsinki Institute of Life Sciences, 
University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.

The data on the effects of tofacitinib on soluble proteins in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is currently very limited. We analyzed how tofacitinib 
treatment and thus inhibition of the Janus kinase-signal transducer and 
activation of transcription pathway affects the in vivo levels of 
inflammation-related plasma proteins in RA patients. In this study, 16 patients 
with active RA [28-joint disease activity score (DAS28) >3.2] despite treatment 
with conventional synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (csDMARDs) 
started tofacitinib treatment 5 mg twice daily. Levels of 92 
inflammation-related plasma proteins were determined by proximity extension 
assay at baseline and at 3 months. Tofacitinib treatment for 3 months, in 
csDMARD background, decreased the mean DAS28 from 4.4 to 2.6 (P < 0.001). Marked 
(>20%) and statistically significant (P < 0.05) changes were found in the levels 
of 21 proteins, 18 of which decreased and 3 increased. Of these proteins, 17 are 
directly involved in inflammatory responses or in the cellular response to 
cytokines. The highest (>50%) decrease was observed for interleukin-6 (IL-6), 
C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1, matrix metalloproteinase-1, and AXIN1. Higher 
baseline levels of IL-6 and lower levels of C-C motif chemokine 11 and Delta and 
Notch-like epidermal growth factor-related receptors were associated with DAS28 
improvement. Our results indicate that tofacitinib downregulates several 
proinflammatory plasma proteins that may contribute to the clinical efficacy of 
tofacitinib. In addition, soluble biomarkers may predict the treatment response 
to tofacitinib.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Society for Immunology.

DOI: 10.1093/cei/uxac085
PMCID: PMC9750823
PMID: 36124688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2023 Mar 1;78(3):407-413. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glac199.

Blunted Rest-Activity Circadian Rhythm Is Associated With Increased Rate of 
Biological Aging: An Analysis of NHANES 2011-2014.

Xu Y(1)(2), Wang X(1)(2), Belsky DW(3), McCall WV(4), Liu Y(2)(5), Su S(1).

Author information:
(1)Georgia Prevention Institute, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, 
Augusta, Georgia, USA.
(2)Center for Biotechnology and Genomic Medicine, Medical College of Georgia, 
Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Butler Columbia Aging Center, Columbia 
University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Health Behavior, Medical College of Georgia, 
Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia, USA.
(5)Department of Cellular Biology & Anatomy, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta 
University, Augusta, Georgia, USA.

Impaired rest-activity circadian rhythm has been associated with increased risk 
for morbidity and mortality. Animals with mutations in clock genes display 
accelerated aging and shortened life span. Whether impaired rest-activity 
circadian rhythm is also associated with processes of aging in humans has not 
been explored. We analyzed accelerometry and physiological data from 7 539 
adults participating in the 2011-2014 waves of the U.S. National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Surveys. We used accelerometry data to compute 
rest-activity rhythm measurements. We used physiological data to compute 
measurements of biological aging according to 3 published algorithms: 
Klemera-Doubal method (KDM) Biological Age, PhenoAge, and homeostatic 
dysregulation (HD). In the models adjusting multiple covariates, participants 
with higher relative amplitude (RA) and interdaily stability (IS) and lower 
intradaily variability (IV) exhibited less advanced biological aging indexed by 
KDM and PhenoAge (effect sizes for 1-quantile increase in these rest-activity 
measurements ranged from 0.54 to 0.57 "years" for RA, 0.24 to 0.28 "years" for 
IS, and 0.24 to 0.35 "years" for IV, ps < .001). Similar finding was observed 
for biological aging indexed by HD, but the significance was limited to RA with 
1-quantile increase in RA associated with 0.09 log units decrease in HD (p < 
.001). The results indicate that blunted rest-activity circadian rhythm is 
associated with accelerated aging in the general population, suggesting that 
