
BACKGROUND: Most cancer disability-adjusted life year (DALY) studies worldwide 
have used broad, generic disability weights (DWs); however, differences exist 
among populations and types of cancers. Using breast cancer as example, this 
study aimed to estimate the population-level DALYs in females in China and the 
impact of screening as well as applying local DWs.
METHODS: Using multisource data, a prevalence-based model was constructed. (1) 
Overall years lived with disability (YLDs) were estimated by using numbers of 
prevalence cases, stage-specific proportions, and local DWs for breast cancer. 
Numbers of females and new breast cancer cases as well as local survival rates 
were used to calculate the number of prevalence cases. (2) Years of life lost 
(YLLs) were estimated using breast cancer mortality rates, female numbers and 
standard life expectancies. (3) The prevalence of and mortality due to breast 
cancer and associated DALYs from 2020 to 2030 were predicted using Joinpoint 
regression. (4) Assumptions considered for screening predictions included 
expanding coverage, reducing mortality due to breast cancer and improving 
early-stage proportion for breast cancer.
RESULTS: In Chinese females, the estimated number of breast cancer DALYs was 
2251.5 thousand (of 17.3% were YLDs) in 2015, which is predicted to increase by 
26.7% (60.3% among those aged ≥ 65 years) in 2030 (2852.8 thousand) if the 
screening coverage (25.7%) stays unchanged. However, if the coverage can be 
achieved to 40.7% in 2030 (deduced from the "Healthy China Initiative"), DALYs 
would decrease by 1.5% among the screened age groups. Sensitivity analyses found 
that using local DWs would change the base-case values by ~ 10%.
CONCLUSION: Estimates of DALYs due to breast cancer in China were lower (with a 
higher proportion of YLDs) than Global Burden of Disease Study numbers (2527.0 
thousand, 8.2% were YLDs), suggesting the importance of the application of 
population-specific DWs. If the screening coverage remains unchanged, breast 
cancer-caused DALYs would continue to increase, especially among elderly 
individuals.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12963-022-00296-1
PMCID: PMC9547451
PMID: 36207752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interests.


244. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2022 Jun 25;51(3):267-277. doi: 
10.3724/zdxbyxb-2022-0072.

Trends in the disease burden of congenital heart disease in China over the past 
three decades.

[Article in English]

Pan F, Xu W, Li J, Huang Z, Shu Q.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the disease burden of congenital heart disease (CHD) 
in China from 1990 to 2019.
METHODS: Using the data from Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study 2019, the 
incidence, age-standardized incidence rates, the mortality, age-standardized 
mortality rates, disability-adjusted life year (DALY) and age-standardized DALY 
rates of CHD were calculated. Time trend analysis of disease burden-related 
indicators was analyzed by Joinpoint regression model. Age-period-cohort model 
was used to describe age, period, and birth cohort effects in CHD mortality 
population. The relationship between age-standardized incidence, mortality, DALY 
rates of congenital heart disease and human development index (HDI) were 
analyzed by Pearson correlation.
RESULTS: From 1990 to 2019, the mean annual percentage change (AAPC) in 
age-standardized incidence rate, mortality rate and DALY rate of CHD in China 
were -0.1%(95% CI: -0.7%-0.4%)、-3.5%(95% CI: -3.7%--3.2%) and -3.5%(95% CI: 
-3.7%--3.2%), respectively. CHD usually occurred in the first year of life. The 
mean incidence rate at birth was 2497.9/100 000, and the mean incidence rate 
under 1 year of age was 2626.6/100 000. During the period of 1995-2000, the 
incidence rate in newborn and <1 year children showed an exponential upward 
trend, then it remained a steady downward trend. However, there was an 
exponential increase in <1 year children during 2010-2013 and 2014-2015, 
followed by an exponential decrease to the lowest value in the last three 
decades. The mortality of CHD tended to decrease with age, with mortality of 
101.67/100 000 for children under 5 years of age and a decrease after 5 years of 
age. However, there was a transient increase in mortality in age group 55-<60. 
From 1995 to 2019, the relative risk of death of patients with CHD showed a 
downward trend. Compared with 1995-1999, the rate ratio of death decreased by 
24% in 2015-2019. Such downward trend was also observed in the birth cohort 
after 1945. Compared with the 1945-1949 birth cohort, the rate ratio of death 
for patients with CHD decreased by 75% in the 2015-2019 birth cohort. When 
HDI<0.58 (before 1999), the age-standardized incidence of CHD was positively 
correlated with HDI ( r=0.74, P<0.05). When HDI≥0.58 (after 1999), the 
age-standardized incidence of CHD was negatively correlated with HDI ( r=-0.76, 
P<0.01). The age-standardized mortality and DALY rates were negatively 
correlated with HDI ( r=-0.95 and -0.93, both P<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: During 1990 to 1999, the incidence of CHD increases and is 
positively correlated with the social development. During 1999 to 2019, the 
incidence of CHD decreases and is negatively correlated with the social 
development. The disease burden of CHD decreases and is negatively correlated 
with the social development. Some progress has been made in the field of 
prevention and control of CHD, but the disease burden remains high among younger 
population in China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the disease burden of congenital heart disease (CHD) 
in China from 1990 to 2019.
METHODS: Using the data from Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study 2019, the 
incidence, age-standardized incidence rates, the mortality, age-standardized 
mortality rates, disability-adjusted life year (DALY) and age-standardized DALY 
rates of CHD were calculated. Time trend analysis of disease burden-related 
indicators was analyzed by Joinpoint regression model. Age-period-cohort model 
was used to describe age, period, and birth cohort effects in CHD mortality 
population. The relationship between age-standardized incidence, mortality, DALY 
rates of congenital heart disease and human development index (HDI) were 
analyzed by Pearson correlation.
RESULTS: From 1990 to 2019, the mean annual percentage change (AAPC) in 
age-standardized incidence rate, mortality rate and DALY rate of CHD in China 
were –0.1%(95% CI: –0.7%-0.4%)、–3.5%(95% CI: –3.7%-–3.2%) and -3.5%(95% CI: 
–3.7%-–3.2%), respectively. CHD usually occurred in the first year of life. The 
mean incidence rate at birth was 2497.9/100 000, and the mean incidence rate 
under 1 year of age was 2626.6/100 000. During the period of 1995—2000, the 
incidence rate in newborn and <1 year children showed an exponential upward 
trend, then it remained a steady downward trend. However, there was an 
exponential increase in <1 year children during 2010—2013 and 2014—2015, 
followed by an exponential decrease to the lowest value in the last three 
decades. The mortality of CHD tended to decrease with age, with mortality of 
101.67/100 000 for children under 5 years of age and a decrease after 5 years of 
age. However, there was a transient increase in mortality in age group 55-<60. 
From 1995 to 2019, the relative risk of death of patients with CHD showed a 
downward trend. Compared with 1995—1999, the rate ratio of death decreased by 
24% in 2015—2019. Such downward trend was also observed in the birth cohort 
after 1945. Compared with the 1945—1949 birth cohort, the rate ratio of death 
for patients with CHD decreased by 75% in the 2015—2019 birth cohort. When 
HDI<0.58 (before 1999), the age-standardized incidence of CHD was positively 
correlated with HDI ( r=0.74, P<0.05). When HDI≥0.58 (after 1999), the 
age-standardized incidence of CHD was negatively correlated with HDI ( r=–0.76, 
P<0.01). The age-standardized mortality and DALY rates were negatively 
correlated with HDI ( r=–0.95 and –0.93, both P<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: During 1990 to 1999, the incidence of CHD increases and is 
positively correlated with the social development. During 1999 to 2019, the 
incidence of CHD decreases and is negatively correlated with the social 
development. The disease burden of CHD decreases and is negatively correlated 
with the social development. Some progress has been made in the field of 
prevention and control of CHD, but the disease burden remains high among younger 
population in China.

DOI: 10.3724/zdxbyxb-2022-0072
PMCID: PMC10251186
PMID: 36207836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: 所有作者均声明不存在利益冲突


245. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2023 Jan 11;30(1):61-69. doi: 10.1093/eurjpc/zwac232.

Estimating individual lifetime risk of incident cardiovascular events in adults 
with Type 2 diabetes: an update and geographical calibration of the DIAbetes 
Lifetime perspective model (DIAL2).

Østergaard HB(1), Hageman SHJ(1), Read SH(2)(3), Taylor O(4), Pennells L(4), 
Kaptoge S(4), Petitjean C(4), Xu Z(4), Shi F(4), McEvoy JW(5), Herrington W(6), 
Visseren FLJ(1), Wood A(4), Eliasson B(7), Sattar N(8), Wild S(2)(3), Di 
Angelantonio E(4)(9), Dorresteijn JAN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Medicine, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht 
University, Heidelberglaan 100, 3584 CX Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(2)Usher Institute, University of Edinburgh, Craigour House, 450 Old Dalkeith 
Rd, Edinburgh EH16 4SS, UK.
(3)On behalf of the Scottish Diabetes Research Network epidemiology group, 
Diabetes Support Unit, Level 8, Ninewells Hospital, DundeeDD1 9SY, UK.
(4)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Cambridge, Forvie 
Site, Robinson Way, Cambridge CB2 0SR, UK.
(5)National University of Ireland Galway, University Rd, Galway, Ireland.
(6)Medical Research Council Population Health Research Unit at the University of 
Oxford, Nuffield Department of Population Health, University of Oxford, Richard 
Doll Building, Old Road Campus, Headington, Oxford OX3 7LF, UK.
(7)Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, University of Gothenburg, Blå 
stråket 5 B Wallenberglab, SU41345 Göteborg, Sweden.
(8)Institute of Cardiovascular & Medical Sciences, University of Glasgow, 126 
University Place, G12 8TA Glasgow, UK.
(9)Health Data Science Centre, Human Technopole, V.le Rita Levi-Montalcini, 1, 
20157 Milano MI, Italy.

AIMS: The 2021 European Society of Cardiology cardiovascular disease (CVD) 
prevention guidelines recommend the use of (lifetime) risk prediction models to 
aid decisions regarding intensified preventive treatment options in adults with 
Type 2 diabetes, e.g. the DIAbetes Lifetime perspective model (DIAL model). The 
aim of this study was to update the DIAL model using contemporary and 
representative registry data (DIAL2) and to systematically calibrate the model 
for use in other European countries.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The DIAL2 model was derived in 467 856 people with Type 2 
diabetes without a history of CVD from the Swedish National Diabetes Register, 
with a median follow-up of 7.3 years (interquartile range: 4.0-10.6 years) and 
comprising 63 824 CVD (including fatal CVD, non-fatal stroke and non-fatal 
myocardial infarction) events and 66 048 non-CVD mortality events. The model was 
systematically recalibrated to Europe's low- and moderate-risk regions using 
contemporary incidence data and mean risk factor distributions. The recalibrated 
DIAL2 model was externally validated in 218 267 individuals with Type 2 diabetes 
from the Scottish Care Information-Diabetes (SCID) and Clinical Practice 
Research Datalink (CPRD). In these individuals, 43 074 CVD events and 27 115 
non-CVD fatal events were observed. The DIAL2 model discriminated well, with 
C-indices of 0.732 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.726-0.739] in CPRD and 0.700 
(95% CI 0.691-0.709) in SCID.
CONCLUSION: The recalibrated DIAL2 model provides a useful tool for the 
prediction of CVD-free life expectancy and lifetime CVD risk for people with 
Type 2 diabetes without previous CVD in the European low- and moderate-risk 
regions. These long-term individualized measures of CVD risk are well suited for 
shared decision-making in clinical practice as recommended by the 2021 CVD ESC 
prevention guidelines.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1093/eurjpc/zwac232
PMID: 36208182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: BE declares consulting 
fees and/or speaker honoraria from Eli Lilly, Sanofi, AstraZeneca, NovoNordisk, 
all outside the submitted work. WH reports grants or contracts from Medical 
Research Council UK, Kidney Research UK, Boehringer Ingelheim and EliLilly; and 
grant support paid to his university for the EMPA-Kidney trial, all outside the 
submitted work. NS declares consulting fees and/or speaker honoraria from Abbott 
Laboratories, Afimmune, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, 
Hanmi Pharmaceuticals, Janssen, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, 
Pfizer, and Sanofi; and grant support paid to his university from AstraZeneca, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Novartis, and Roche Diagnostics, all outside the submitted 
work.


246. Oral Oncol. 2022 Nov;134:106189. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2022.106189.
Epub  2022 Oct 5.

Trends in the global burden of oral cancer joint with attributable risk factors: 
Results from the global burden of disease study 2019.

Zhu S(1), Zhang F(1), Zhao G(2), Zhang X(2), Zhang X(1), Li T(1), Hu C(1), Zhu 
W(3), Li D(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, School of Public Health, 
Wuhan University, Wuhan 430071, China.
(2)Department of Public Health, School of Public Health, Wuhan University, Wuhan 
430071, China.
(3)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, School of Public Health, 
Wuhan University, Wuhan 430071, China. Electronic address: weizhu@whu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, School of Public Health, 
Wuhan University, Wuhan 430071, China. Electronic address: djli@whu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the characteristics of risk factors for oral cancer 
and the disease burden they caused.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data from GBD2019, where the EAPC was calculated to 
understand mortality trends and the APC model was used for the analysis of age 
characteristics.
RESULTS: Overall oral cancer mortality showed a promising downward trend 
[EAPC = -0.05 (-0.08 to -0.02)]. Oral cancer mortality attributable to tobacco 
chewing alone showed a significant upward trend [EAPC = 0.44 (0.36-0.52)]. Males 
are the majority of oral cancer deaths, while the disease burden of oral cancer 
in females could be largely attributable to chewing tobacco. The age of death 
attributable to each risk factor for oral cancer is concentrated between 45 and 
74 years. Mortality for oral cancer caused by alcohol and smokeless tobacco was 
increasing in younger age groups (age &lt; 45), and this trend was more 
pronounced in middle and middle-high SDI areas. The disease burden of oral 
cancer in high SDI regions was mainly attributed to alcohol consumption, while 
in middle and lower SDI regions it was mainly attributed to tobacco.
CONCLUSION: Smokeless tobacco proved a critical factor in the significant 
regional distribution of oral cancer. Oral cancer is on the increase in younger 
age groups. According to the characteristics of the distribution of risk 
factors, in traditionally high-incidence regions, such as India and Pakistan, 
oral cancer kept the highest ASDR, but was not experiencing the fastest growth 
rate. Additionally, it was oral cancer in middle SDI regions that needs more 
attention.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2022.106189
PMID: 36208599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


247. Sci Rep. 2022 Oct 8;12(1):16931. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-20237-0.

Prevalence and DALYs of skin diseases in Ubonratchathani based on real-world 
national healthcare service data.

Prasitpuriprecha N(1), Santaweesuk S(1), Boonkert P(2), Chamnan P(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, Sunprasitthiprasong Regional Hospital, 
Ubonratchathani, Thailand.
(2)Strategy and Policy Division, National Health Security Office Region 10, 
Ubonratchathani, Thailand.
(3)Cardiometabolic Research Group, Department of Social Medicine, 
Sunprasitthiprasong Regional Hospital, Ubonratchathani, 34000, Thailand. 
parinya.chamnan@cardiomet-res.org.
(4)College of Medicine and Public Health, Ubonratchathani University, 
Ubonratchathani, Thailand. parinya.chamnan@cardiomet-res.org.

There is little evidence to describe the burden of skin diseases in developing 
countries and its accuracy remained uncertain. We aimed to examine prevalence 
and disability adjusted life years (DALYs) of skin diseases in a Thai general 
population in Ubonratchathani. Based on real-world healthcare service data 
(diagnoses, prevalence, and cause-specific mortality) retrieved from the 
National Health Security Office reimbursement database, we used a simplified 
prevalence-based approach adopted in the Global Burden of Diseases to compute 
disease burden, measured as DALYs, of skin diseases. DALYs was calculated as the 
sum of years lost due to disability and years of life lost due to skin diseases, 
with adoption of previously published averaged disability weights and a 95% 
uncertainty interval (UI) estimated using a Bayesian bootstrap technique. From a 
total population of 1,503,945, 110,205 people were affected by skin disease in 
2018-an overall prevalence of 7%. The prevalence varied across sex, age group 
and geographic areas. The most common skin diseases treated in Ubonratchathani's 
healthcare services were dermatitis, bacterial skin diseases and urticaria 
(prevalence of 2.35%, 2.21% and 0.89% respectively). Overall DALYs of skin 
diseases in Ubonratchathani population was 26,125 (95%UI 24,783-27,467), and 
this was relatively higher in men than women. (DALYs 13,717 (12,846-14,588) and 
12,408 (11,417-13,399) for men and women respectively). The greatest 
contributors of DALYs were cellulitis, decubitus ulcer and contact dermatitis 
(11,680, 4,806 and 1,598 years respectively). In conclusion, skin disease caused 
substantial disease burden in this Thai population, with cellulitis being the 
largest contributor.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-022-20237-0
PMCID: PMC9547855
PMID: 36209158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


248. Int J Older People Nurs. 2023 Jan;18(1):e12507. doi: 10.1111/opn.12507. Epub
 2022 Oct 9.

Sharing decision-making between the older person and the nurse: A scoping 
review.

Marriott-Statham K(1)(2), Dickson CAW(1)(3), Hardiman M(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Person-centred Practice Research, Queen Margaret University, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(2)School of Nursing, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, Australia.
(3)Division of Nursing and Paramedic Science, Queen Margaret University, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(4)Galway Clinic, Galway, Ireland.

BACKGROUND: Sharing decision-making is globally recognised as an important 
concept in healthcare research, policy, education and practice which enhances 
person-centred care. However, it is becoming increasingly evident shared 
decision-making has not been successfully translated into everyday healthcare 
practice. Sharing decision-making has strong links with person-centred practice. 
Core to person-centredness and shared decision making, is the need to recognise 
that as we age, greater reliance is placed on emotion and life experience to 
inform decision making processes. With the world's ageing population, older 
persons facing more complex decisions and transitions of care, it is more 
important than ever it is understood how shared decision-making occurs.
OBJECTIVES: This scoping literature review aims to find out how sharing decision 
making between nurses and older persons in healthcare settings is understood and 
presented in published literature.
METHODS: This scoping review utilised the Arksey and O'Malley methodological 
framework, advanced by Levac et al. Electronic databases and grey literature 
were searched, returning 362 records which were examined against defined 
inclusion criteria. Reporting followed the Preferred Reporting Items for 
Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR).
RESULTS: Twenty-two records met inclusion criteria for the review. Results 
indicate while shared decision-making is included in research, education and 
policy literature, it has not been effectively translated to inform practice and 
the relationship between a nurse and an older person. The records lack 
definitions of shared decision-making and theoretical or philosophical 
underpinnings. There is also no consideration of emotion and life experience in 
decision-making and how nurses 'do' shared decision-making with older persons.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings demonstrate sharing decision-making between nurses and 
older persons is not well understood in the literature, and therefore is not 
translated into nursing practice. Further research is needed.

© 2022 The Authors. International Journal of Older People Nursing published by 
John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/opn.12507
PMID: 36209506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Surg Clin North Am. 2022 Oct;102(5):861-872. doi: 10.1016/j.suc.2022.07.015.
 Epub 2022 Sep 13.

Medical and Surgical Aspects of Intestinal Failure in the Child.

Wendel D(1), Javid PJ(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle Children's Hospital, 
4800 Sand Point Way Northeast, Seattle, WA 98105, USA.
(2)University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle Children's Hospital, 
4800 Sand Point Way Northeast, Seattle, WA 98105, USA. Electronic address: 
Patrick.javid@seattlechildrens.org.

Medical and surgical care for children with intestinal failure has evolved so 
that long-term life expectancy is common even in the setting of the shortest 
bowel lengths. The long-term administration of parenteral nutrition has become 
safe with alterations in lipid formulation, and the risk of liver injury has 
been dramatically reduced. Well-established techniques for bowel lengthening and 
tapering exist to increase the absorptive capacity of the remnant bowel. These 
advances allow for ongoing intestinal rehabilitation in the child with the 
ultimate goal of enteral autonomy while the use of intestinal transplantation in 
this population has declined in recent years.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.suc.2022.07.015
PMID: 36209751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors have nothing to disclose.


250. Lancet Glob Health. 2022 Dec;10(12):e1715-e1743. doi: 
10.1016/S2214-109X(22)00429-6. Epub 2022 Oct 6.

Assessing performance of the Healthcare Access and Quality Index, overall and by 
select age groups, for 204 countries and territories, 1990-2019: a systematic 
analysis from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Healthcare Access and Quality Collaborators.

Collaborators: Haakenstad A, Yearwood JA, Fullman N, Bintz C, Bienhoff K, Weaver 
MR, Nandakumar V, Joffe JN, LeGrand KE, Knight M, Abbafati C, Abbasi-Kangevari 
M, Abdoli A, Abeldaño Zuñiga RA, Adedeji IA, Adekanmbi V, Adetokunboh OO, Afzal 
MS, Afzal S, Agudelo-Botero M, Ahinkorah BO, Ahmad S, Ahmadi A, Ahmadi S, Ahmed 
A, Ahmed Rashid T, Aji B, Akande-Sholabi W, Alam K, Al Hamad H, Alhassan RK, Ali 
L, Alipour V, Aljunid SM, Ameyaw EK, Amin TT, Amu H, Amugsi DA, Ancuceanu R, 
Andrade PP, Anjum A, Arabloo J, Arab-Zozani M, Ariffin H, Arulappan J, Aryan Z, 
Ashraf T, Atnafu DD, Atreya A, Ausloos M, Avila-Burgos L, Ayano G, Ayanore MA, 
Azari S, Badiye AD, Baig AA, Bairwa M, Bakkannavar SM, Baliga S, Banik PC, 
Bärnighausen TW, Barra F, Barrow A, Basu S, Bayati M, Belete R, Bell AW, Bhagat 
DS, Bhagavathula AS, Bhardwaj P, Bhardwaj N, Bhaskar S, Bhattacharyya K, Bhutta 
ZA, Bibi S, Bijani A, Bikbov B, Biondi A, Bolarinwa OA, Bonny A, Brenner H, 
Buonsenso D, Burkart K, Busse R, Butt ZA, Butt NS, Caetano Dos Santos FL, 
Cahuana-Hurtado L, Cámera LA, Cárdenas R, Carneiro VLA, Catalá-López F, Chandan 
JS, Charan J, Chavan PP, Chen S, Chen S, Choudhari SG, Chowdhury EK, Chowdhury 
MAK, Cirillo M, Corso B, Dadras O, Dahlawi SMA, Dai X, Dandona L, Dandona R, 
Dangel WJ, Dávila-Cervantes CA, Davletov K, Deuba K, Dhimal M, Dhimal ML, 
Djalalinia S, Do HP, Doshmangir L, Duncan BB, Effiong A, Ehsani-Chimeh E, 
Elgendy IY, Elhadi M, El Sayed I, El Tantawi M, Erku DA, Eskandarieh S, Fares J, 
Farzadfar F, Ferrero S, Ferro Desideri L, Fischer F, Foigt NA, Foroutan M, 
Fukumoto T, Gaal PA, Gaihre S, Gardner WM, Garg T, Getachew Obsa A, Ghafourifard 
M, Ghashghaee A, Ghith N, Gilani SA, Gill PS, Goharinezhad S, Golechha M, 
Guadamuz JS, Guo Y, Gupta RD, Gupta R, Gupta VK, Gupta VB, Hamiduzzaman M, Hanif 
A, Haro JM, Hasaballah AI, Hasan MM, Hasan MT, Hashi A, Hay SI, Hayat K, Heidari 
M, Heidari G, Henry NJ, Herteliu C, Holla R, Hossain S, Hossain SJ, Hossain MBH, 
Hosseinzadeh M, Hostiuc S, Hoveidamanesh S, Hsieh VC, Hu G, Huang J, Huda MM, 
Ifeagwu SC, Ikuta KS, Ilesanmi OS, Irvani SSN, Islam RM, Islam SMS, Ismail NE, 
Iso H, Isola G, Itumalla R, Iwagami M, Jahani MA, Jahanmehr N, Jain R, 
Jakovljevic M, Janodia MD, Jayapal SK, Jayaram S, Jha RP, Jonas JB, Joo T, 
Joseph N, Jürisson M, Kabir A, Kalankesh LR, Kalhor R, Kamath AM, Kamenov K, 
Kandel H, Kantar RS, Kapoor N, Karanikolos M, Katikireddi SV, Kavetskyy T, 
Kawakami N, Kayode GA, Keikavoosi-Arani L, Keykhaei M, Khader YS, Khajuria H, 
Khalilov R, Khammarnia M, Khan MN, Khan MA, Khan M, Khezeli M, Kim MS, Kim YJ, 
Kisa S, Kisa A, Klymchuk V, Koly KN, Korzh O, Kosen S, Koul PA, Kuate Defo B, 
Kumar GA, Kusuma D, Kyu HH, Larsson AO, Lasrado S, Lee WC, Lee YH, Lee CB, Li S, 
Lucchetti G, Mahajan PB, Majeed A, Makki A, Malekzadeh R, Malik AA, Malta DC, 
Mansournia MA, Mantovani LG, Martinez-Valle A, Martins-Melo FR, Masoumi SZ, 
Mathur MR, Maude RJ, Maulik PK, McKee M, Mendoza W, Menezes RG, Mensah GA, 
Meretoja A, Meretoja TJ, Mestrovic T, Michalek IM, Mirrakhimov EM, Misganaw A, 
Misra S, Moazen B, Mohammadi M, Mohammed S, Moitra M, Mokdad AH, Molokhia M, 
Monasta L, Moni MA, Moradi G, Moreira RS, Mosser JF, Mostafavi E, Mouodi S, 
Nagarajan AJ, Nagata C, Naghavi M, Nangia V, Narasimha Swamy S, Narayana AI, 
Nascimento BR, Nassereldine H, Nayak BP, Nazari J, Negoi I, Nepal S, Neupane 
Kandel S, Ngunjiri JW, Nguyen HLT, Nguyen CT, Ningrum DNA, Noubiap JJ, Oancea B, 
Oghenetega OB, Oh IH, Olagunju AT, Olakunde BO, Omar Bali A, Omer E, Onwujekwe 
OE, Otoiu A, Padubidri JR, Palladino R, Pana A, Panda-Jonas S, Pandi-Perumal SR, 
Pardhan S, Pasupula DK, Pathak PK, Patton GC, Pawar S, Pereira J, Pilania M, 
Piroozi B, Podder V, Pokhrel KN, Postma MJ, Prada SI, Quazi Syed Z, Rabiee N, 
Radhakrishnan RA, Rahman MM, Rahman M, Rahman M, Rahman MHU, Rahmani AM, 
Ranabhat CL, Rao CR, Rao SJ, Rasella D, Rawaf S, Rawaf DL, Rawal L, Renzaho AMN, 
Reshmi B, Resnikoff S, Rezapour A, Riahi SM, Ripon RK, Sacco S, Sadeghi M, Saeed 
U, Sahebkar A, Sahiledengle B, Sahoo H, Sahu M, Salama JS, Salamati P, Samy AM, 
Sanabria J, Santric-Milicevic MM, Sathian B, Sawhney M, Schmidt MI, Seidu AA, 
Sepanlou SG, Seylani A, Shaikh MA, Sheikh A, Shetty A, Shigematsu M, Shiri R, 
Shivakumar KM, Shokri A, Singh JA, Sinha DN, Skryabin VY, Skryabina AA, 
Sofi-Mahmudi A, Sousa RARC, Stephens JH, Sun J, Szócska M, Tabarés-Seisdedos R, 
Tadbiri H, Tamiru AT, Thankappan KR, Topor-Madry R, Tovani-Palone MR, Tran MTN, 
Tran BX, Tripathi N, Tripathy JP, Troeger CE, Uezono DR, Ullah S, Ullah A, 
Unnikrishnan B, Vacante M, Valadan Tahbaz S, Valdez PR, Vasic M, Veroux M, 
Vervoort D, Violante FS, Vladimirov SK, Vlassov V, Vo B, Waheed Y, Wamai RG, 
Wang YP, Wang Y, Ward P, Wiangkham T, Yadav L, Yahyazadeh Jabbari SH, Yamagishi 
K, Yaya S, Yazdi-Feyzabadi V, Yi S, Yiğit V, Yonemoto N, Younis MZ, Yu C, Yunusa 
I, Zaman SB, Zastrozhin MS, Zhang ZJ, Zhong C, Zuniga YMH, Lim SS, Murray CJL, 
Lozano R.

Comment in
    Lancet Glob Health. 2022 Dec;10(12):e1689-e1690.

BACKGROUND: Health-care needs change throughout the life course. It is thus 
crucial to assess whether health systems provide access to quality health care 
for all ages. Drawing from the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk 
Factors Study 2019 (GBD 2019), we measured the Healthcare Access and Quality 
(HAQ) Index overall and for select age groups in 204 locations from 1990 to 
2019.
METHODS: We distinguished the overall HAQ Index (ages 0-74 years) from scores 
for select age groups: the young (ages 0-14 years), working (ages 15-64 years), 
and post-working (ages 65-74 years) groups. For GBD 2019, HAQ Index construction 
methods were updated to use the arithmetic mean of scaled mortality-to-incidence 
ratios (MIRs) and risk-standardised death rates (RSDRs) for 32 causes of death 
that should not occur in the presence of timely, quality health care. Across 
locations and years, MIRs and RSDRs were scaled from 0 (worst) to 100 (best) 
separately, putting the HAQ Index on a different relative scale for each age 
group. We estimated absolute convergence for each group on the basis of whether 
the HAQ Index grew faster in absolute terms between 1990 and 2019 in countries 
with lower 1990 HAQ Index scores than countries with higher 1990 HAQ Index 
scores and by Socio-demographic Index (SDI) quintile. SDI is a summary metric of 
overall development.
FINDINGS: Between 1990 and 2019, the HAQ Index increased overall (by 19·6 
points, 95% uncertainty interval 17·9-21·3), as well as among the young (22·5, 
19·9-24·7), working (17·2, 15·2-19·1), and post-working (15·1, 13·2-17·0) age 
groups. Large differences in HAQ Index scores were present across SDI levels in 
2019, with the overall index ranging from 30·7 (28·6-33·0) on average in low-SDI 
countries to 83·4 (82·4-84·3) on average in high-SDI countries. Similarly large 
ranges between low-SDI and high-SDI countries, respectively, were estimated in 
the HAQ Index for the young (40·4-89·0), working (33·8-82·8), and post-working 
(30·4-79·1) groups. Absolute convergence in HAQ Index was estimated in the young 
group only. In contrast, divergence was estimated among the working and 
post-working groups, driven by slow progress in low-SDI countries.
INTERPRETATION: Although major gaps remain across levels of social and economic 
development, convergence in the young group is an encouraging sign of reduced 
disparities in health-care access and quality. However, divergence in the 
working and post-working groups indicates that health-care access and quality is 
lagging at lower levels of social and economic development. To meet the needs of 
ageing populations, health systems need to improve health-care access and 
quality for working-age adults and older populations while continuing to realise 
gains among the young.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2214-109X(22)00429-6
PMCID: PMC9666426
PMID: 36209761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests S Afzal reports 
participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with the 
Corona Expert Advisory Group and Infectious Diseases Expert Advisory Group and 
is a Fellow of Faculty of Public Health, UK and the Dean of Public Health and 
Preventive Medicine and a chairperson for Community Medicine at King Edward 
Medical University, Pakistan. R Ancuceanu reports payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speaker's bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from Abbvie, B. Braun, Sandoz, and Laropharm. S Bhaskar is the Board 
Director of the Rotary Club of Sydney, chair of Rotary District 9675, Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion, and is the chair/co-manager, Global Health and Migration 
Community Hub at the Global Health Hub Germany. B Bikbov reports support for the 
present manuscript from the European Union's Horizon 2020 Marie Sklodowska-Curie 
research and innovation programme grant number 703226, and reports grants or 
contracts from the Lombardy Region, paid to their institution, outside of the 
submitted work. J S Chandan reports grants or contracts from the National 
Institute for Health and Care Research as well as the Youth Endowment Fund, 
outside of the submitted work. N Fullman reports funding from WHO and Gates 
ventures, outside of the submitted work. C Herteliu reports grants or contracts 
from the Romanian Ministry of Research Innovation and Digitalization 
(ID-585-CTR-42-PFE-2021), outside the submitted work. C Herteliu and A Pana 
report grants or contracts from Romanian National Authority for Scientific 
Research and Innovation (PN-III-P4-ID-PCCF-2016-0084, 
PN-III-P2-2.1-SOL-2020-2-0351), outside the submitted work. S V Katikireddi 
reports support for the current manuscript from the Medical Research Council 
(MC_UU_00022/2)) and Scottish Government Chief Scientist Office (MC_UU_00022/2), 
payments made to their institution. S Mohammed reports support for the present 
manuscript from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and reports a fellowship 
grant from Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, outside of the submitted work. L 
Monasta reports support for the present manuscript from the Italian Ministry of 
Health (Ricerca Corrente 34/2017), payments made to their institution. J Mosser 
reports support for the present manuscript from the Bill & Melinda Gates 
Foundation and report grants from Gavi, outside of the submitted work. S Sacco 
reports grants for contracts from Novartis, and Uriach as payments to their 
institution; personal consulting fees from Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Lilly, Novartis, 
Teva, Lundbeck, Abbott, and Novo Nordisk; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Allerga-Abbvie, Abbott, Norvartis, Lilly, Lundbeck, and Teva as personal 
payments; support for attending meetings or travel from Lilly; and is president 
elect of the European Stroke Organisation and second vice president of the 
European Headache Federation. S Sacco also reports receipt of equipment, 
materials, drugs, medical writing, gifts, or other services from 
Allergan-Abbvie, Novartis, and Novo Nordisk, all outside the submitted work. J A 
Singh reports consulting fees from Crealta/Horizon, Medisys, Fidia, PK Med, Two 
Labs, Adept Field Solutions, Clinical Care options, Clearview healthcare 
partners, Putnam associates, Focus forward, Navigant consulting, Spherix, MedIQ, 
Jupiter Life, UBM, Trio Health, Medscape, WebMD, and Practice Point 
communications, and the National Institutes of Health and the American College 
of Rheumatology; payment or honoraria for participating in the speakers bureau 
for Simply Speaking; support for attending meetings or travel from the steering 
committee of OMERACT, to attend their meeting every 2 years; participation on a 
data safety monitoring board or advisory board as an unpaid member of the FDA 
Arthritis Advisory Committee; leadership or fiduciary role in other board, 
society, committee or advocacy group, paid or unpaid, as a member of the 
steering committee of OMERACT, an international organisation that develops 
measures for clinical trials and receives arms length funding from 12 
pharmaceutical companies, with the Veterans Affairs Rheumatology Field Advisory 
Committee as Chair, and with the UAB Cochrane Musculoskeletal Group Satellite 
Center on Network Meta-analysis as a director and editor; stock or stock options 
in TPT Global Tech, Vaxart pharmaceuticals, Atyu Biopharma, Adaptimmune 
Therapeutics, GeoVax Labs, Pieris Pharmaceuticals, Enzolytics, Series 
Therapeutics, Tonix Pharmaceuticals, and Charlotte's Web Holdings and previously 
owned stock options in Amarin, Viking, and Moderna pharmaceuticals; all outside 
the submitted work. D R Uezono is an employee of Roche Philippines, and their 
involvement in this article is done outside of their scope as an employee of 
Roche.


251. Antiviral Res. 2022 Dec;208:105430. doi: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2022.105430.
Epub  2022 Oct 6.

Combination therapy with nirmatrelvir and molnupiravir improves the survival of 
SARS-CoV-2 infected mice.

Jeong JH(1), Chokkakula S(1), Min SC(1), Kim BK(1), Choi WS(1), Oh S(1), Yun 
YS(1), Kang DH(1), Lee OJ(2), Kim EG(3), Choi JH(4), Lee JY(5), Choi YK(6), Baek 
YH(1), Song MS(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Chungbuk National University College of Medicine 
and Medical Research Institute, Cheongju, Chungbuk, 28644, South Korea.
(2)Department of Pathology, Chungbuk National University Hospital, Cheongju, 
South Korea.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Chungbuk National University College of Medicine 
and Medical Research Institute, Cheongju, Chungbuk, 28644, South Korea.
(4)Division of Acute Viral Disease, Center for Emerging Virus Research, National 
Institute of Infectious Diseases, Korea National Institute of Health, Cheongju, 
28159, South Korea.
(5)Center for Emerging Virus Research, Korea National Institute of Health, Korea 
Disease Control and Prevention Agency, Cheongju-si, South Korea.
(6)Department of Microbiology, Chungbuk National University College of Medicine 
and Medical Research Institute, Cheongju, Chungbuk, 28644, South Korea; Center 
for Study of Emerging and Re-emerging Viruses, Korea Virus Research Institute, 
Institute for Basic Science (IBS), Daejeon, 34126, South Korea.
(7)Department of Microbiology, Chungbuk National University College of Medicine 
and Medical Research Institute, Cheongju, Chungbuk, 28644, South Korea. 
Electronic address: songminsuk@chungbuk.ac.kr.

As the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic remains uncontrolled owing to the continuous 
emergence of variants of concern, there is an immediate need to implement the 
most effective antiviral treatment strategies, especially for risk groups. Here, 
we evaluated the therapeutic potency of nirmatrelvir, remdesivir and 
molnupiravir, and their combinations in SARS-CoV-2 infected K18-hACE2 transgenic 
mice. Systemic treatment of mice with each drug (20 mg/kg) resulted in slightly 
enhanced antiviral efficacy and yielded an increased life expectancy of only 
about 20-40% survival. However, combination therapy with nirmatrelvir (20 mg/kg) 
and molnupiravir (20 mg/kg) in lethally infected mice showed profound inhibition 
of SARS-CoV-2 replication in both the lung and brain and synergistically 
improved survival rates up to 80% compared to those with nirmatrelvir (36%, 
P < 0.001) and molnupiravir (43%, P < 0.001) administered alone. This 
combination therapy effectively reduced clinical severity score, virus-induced 
tissue damage, and viral distribution compared to those in animals treated with 
these monotherapies. Furthermore, all these assessments associated with this 
combination were also significantly higher than that of mice receiving 
remdesivir monotherapy (P < 0.001) and the nirmatrelvir (20 mg/kg) and 
remdesivir (20 mg/kg) combination (P < 0.001), underscored the clinical 
significance of this combination. By contrast, the nirmatrelvir and remdesivir 
combination showed less antiviral efficacy, with lower survival compared to 
nirmatrelvir monotherapy due to the insufficient plasma exposure of the 
remdesivir, demonstrating the inefficient therapeutic effect of this combination 
in the mouse model. The combination therapy with nirmatrelvir and molnupiravir 
contributes to alleviated morbidity and mortality, which can serve as a basis 
for the design of clinical studies of this combination in the treatment of 
COVID-19 patients.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2022.105430
PMCID: PMC9535923
PMID: 36209984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


252. Clin Geriatr Med. 2022 Nov;38(4):693-704. doi: 10.1016/j.cger.2022.05.009.
Epub  2022 Sep 13.

Polypharmacy in Hospice and Palliative Care.

Yeh A(1), Sun AZ(2), Chernicoff H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Geriatrics, University of 
California, Los Angeles, 757 Westwood Plaza, Suite 7501, Los Angeles, CA 90095, 
USA; Department of Internal Medicine, Hospice and Palliative Medicine Program, 
University of California, Los Angeles, 757 Westwood Plaza, Suite 7501, Los 
Angeles, CA 90095, USA. Electronic address: ayeh@mednet.ucla.edu.
(2)Combined Geriatrics and Palliative Care, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Division of Geriatrics, University of California, Los Angeles, 757 Westwood 
Plaza, Suite 7501, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA; Combined Geriatrics and 
Palliative Care, Department of Internal Medicine, Hospice and Palliative 
Medicine Program, University of California, Los Angeles, 757 Westwood Plaza, 
Suite 7501, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.

In patients with limited life expectancy, or if the clinician would not be 
surprised if the patient were to die within a year, reconsidering the treatment 
targets and engaging in an open discussion with the patient on their goals of 
care would be appropriate. When a desire to deprescribe has been reached by both 
clinician and patient, a stepwise and guided approach to deprescribing with 
regular follow-ups is recommended. This article discusses common medications 
that can be deprescribed in the palliative/hospice patients and provides 
toolkits for future reference.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cger.2022.05.009
PMID: 36210085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors have nothing to disclose.


253. Clin Ther. 2022 Nov;44(11):1449-1462. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2022.09.008.
Epub  2022 Oct 7.

Assessing the Cost-effectiveness of a Hypothetical Disease-modifying Therapy 
With Limited Duration for the Treatment of Early Symptomatic Alzheimer Disease.

Boustani M(1), Doty EG(2), Garrison LP Jr(3), Smolen LJ(4), Belger M(5), Klein 
TM(4), Murphy DR(4), Burge R(2), Wall JK(2), Johnston JA(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana.
(2)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana.
(3)The CHOICE Institute, Department of Pharmacy, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington.
(4)Medical Decision Modeling Inc, Indianapolis, Indiana.
(5)Eli Lilly and Company, Windlesham, United Kingdom.
(6)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana. Electronic address: 
johnston_joseph_a@lilly.com.

PURPOSE: Clinical trials have produced promising results for disease-modifying 
therapies (DMTs) for Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, the evidence on their 
potential cost-effectiveness is limited. This study assesses the 
cost-effectiveness of a hypothetical DMT with a limited treatment duration in 
AD.
METHODS: We developed a Markov state-transition model to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of a hypothetical DMT plus best supportive care (BSC) versus 
BSC alone among Americans living with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to AD 
or mild AD. AD states included MCI due to AD, mild AD, moderate AD, severe AD, 
and death. A hypothetical DMT was assumed to confer a 30% reduction in 
progression from MCI and mild AD. The base case annual drug acquisition cost was 
assumed to be $56,000. Other medical and indirect costs were obtained from 
published literature or list prices. Utilities for patients and caregivers were 
obtained from the published literature and varied by AD state and care setting 
(community care or long-term care). We considered 3 DMT treatment strategies: 
(1) treatment administered until patients reached severe AD (continuous 
strategy), (2) treatment administered for a maximum duration of 18 months or 
when patients reached severe AD (fixed-duration strategy), and (3) 40% of 
patients discontinuing treatment at 6 months because of amyloid plaque clearance 
and the remaining patients continuing treatment until 18 months or until they 
reached severe AD (test-and-discontinue strategy). Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated as the incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
FINDINGS: From the health care sector perspective, continuous treatment with a 
hypothetical DMT versus BSC resulted in an ICER of $612,354 per QALY gained. The 
ICER decreased to $157,288 per QALY gained in the fixed-duration strategy, 
driven by large reductions in treatment costs. With 40% of patients 
discontinuing treatment at 6 months (test-and-discontinue strategy), the ICER 
was $125,631 per QALY gained. In sensitivity and scenario analyses, the ICER was 
the most sensitive to changes in treatment efficacy, treatment cost, and the 
initial population AD state distribution. From the modified societal 
perspective, ICERs were 6.3%, 20.4%, and 25.1% lower than those from the health 
care sector perspective for the continuous, fixed-duration, and 
test-and-discontinue strategies, respectively.
IMPLICATIONS: Under a set of assumptions for annual treatment costs and the 
magnitude and duration of treatment efficacy, DMTs used for a limited duration 
may deliver value consistent with accepted US cost-effectiveness thresholds.

Copyright © 2022 Eli Lilly and Company. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2022.09.008
PMID: 36210219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interest M. Boustani and L.P. 
Garrison report fees from Eli Lilly and Company during conduct of this study. 
E.G. Doty, M. Belger, R. Burge, J.K. Wall, and J.A. Johnston are employees and 
minor shareholders of Eli Lilly and Company. L.J. Smolen, T.M. Klein, D.R. 
Murphy are employees of Medical Decision Modeling Inc, which received 
compensation from Eli Lilly for the research that contributed to this article. 
The authors have indicated that they have no other conflicts of interest 
regarding the content of this article.


254. Respirology. 2023 Feb;28(2):166-175. doi: 10.1111/resp.14389. Epub 2022 Oct
9.

Trends of global and regional aetiologies, risk factors and mortality of lower 
respiratory infections from 1990 to 2019: An analysis for the Global Burden of 
Disease Study 2019.

Kang L(1), Jing W(1), Liu J(1), Liu M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, Beijing, China.

Comment in
    Respirology. 2023 Feb;28(2):95-96.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Lower respiratory infections (LRIs) are a leading 
cause of death worldwide. We aimed to estimate the trends of global and regional 
aetiologies, risk factors and mortality of LRIs from 1990 to 2019.
METHODS: From the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) Study 2019, we collected 
relevant data, including annual LRI deaths, mortality and deaths and mortality 
attributable to the four high-burden aetiologies and 14 risk factors during 
1990-2019. To quantify the temporal trends, estimated annual percentage changes 
(EAPCs) were calculated by fitting linear regression model.
RESULTS: Globally, the age-standardized mortality due to LRIs decreased by an 
average of 2.39% (95% CI 2.33%-2.45%) per year, from 66.67 deaths per 100,000 in 
1990 to 35.72 deaths per 100,000 in 2019. Low Socio-demographic Index regions, 
South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa had the heaviest burden of LRIs. The 
age-standardized mortality decreased in 18 GBD regions, whereas increased in 
Southern Latin America (EAPC = 1.20, 95% CI 1.03-1.37). LRIs led to considerable 
deaths among children under 5 years and adults older than 70 years. 
Streptococcus pneumoniae was the first leading aetiology, accounting for over 
50% of LRI deaths. Household air pollution from solid fuels, child wasting and 
ambient particulate matter pollution were the three leading risk factors for LRI 
mortality in 2019.
CONCLUSION: LRIs remain an important health problem globally, especially in some 
vulnerable areas and among children under 5 and adults over 70 years. Future 
researches focusing on the aetiologies and risk factors for LRIs are needed to 
provide targeted and updated prevention strategies.

© 2022 Asian Pacific Society of Respirology.

DOI: 10.1111/resp.14389
PMID: 36210345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. J Clin Hypertens (Greenwich). 2022 Nov;24(11):1461-1472. doi:
10.1111/jch.14584.  Epub 2022 Oct 10.

Global burden of atrial fibrillation/flutter due to high systolic blood pressure 
from 1990 to 2019: estimates from the global burden of disease study 2019.

Jin Y(1), Wang K(1), Xiao B(1), Wang M(1), Gao X(1), Zhang J(1), Lu J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, The Second Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang City, Hebei, China.

Atrial fibrillation/atrial flutter (AF/AFL) has progressed to be a public health 
concern, and high systolic blood pressure (HSBP) remains the leading risk factor 
for AF/AFL. This study estimated the HSBP attributable AF/AFL burden based on 
the data from the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study 2019. Numbers, 
age-standardized rates (ASR) of deaths, disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), 
and corresponding estimated annual percentage change (EAPC) were analyzed by 
age, sex, sociodemographic index (SDI), and locations. Gini coefficient was 
calculated to evaluate health inequality. Globally, HSBP-related AF/AFL caused 
107 091 deaths and 3 337 876 DALYs in 2019, an increase of 142.5% and 105.9% 
from 1990, respectively. The corresponding mortality and DALYs ASR declined by 
5.8% and 7.7%. High-income Asia Pacific experienced the greatest decrease in 
mortality and DALYs ASR, whereas the largest increase was observed in Andean 
Latin America. Almost half of the HSBP-related AF/AFL burden was carried by high 
and high-middle SDI regions, and it was experiencing a shift to lower SDI 
regions. A negative correlation was detected between EAPC and SDI. Females and 
elderly people tended to have a higher AF/AFL burden, whereas young adults 
(30-49 years old) experienced an annual increase in AF/AFL burden. The Gini 
index of DALYs rate decreased from 0.224 in 1990 to 0.183 in 2019. Despite 
improved inequality having been observed over the past decades, the HSBP-related 
AF/AFL burden varied across regions, sexes, and ages. Cost-effective preventive, 
diagnostic, and therapeutic tools are required to be implemented in less 
developed regions.

© 2022 The Authors. The Journal of Clinical Hypertension published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/jch.14584
PMCID: PMC9659877
PMID: 36210736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare that are relevant to the content of this article.


256. Front Pharmacol. 2022 Sep 23;13:876282. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2022.876282. 
eCollection 2022.

Artemisinin resistance and malaria elimination: Where are we now?

Hanboonkunupakarn B(1)(2), Tarning J(2)(3), Pukrittayakamee S(1)(2)(4), 
Chotivanich K(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Tropical Medicine, Faculty of Tropical Medicine, 
Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Mahidol Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Unit, Faculty of Tropical Medicine, 
Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nuffield Department of 
Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(4)The Royal Society of Thailand, Bangkok, Thailand.

The emergence of artemisinin resistance is a major obstacle to the global 
malaria eradication/elimination programs. Artemisinin is a very fast-acting 
antimalarial drug and is the most important drug in the treatment of severe and 
uncomplicated malaria. For the treatment of acute uncomplicated falciparum 
malaria, artemisinin derivatives are combined with long half-life partner drugs 
and widely used as artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs). Some ACTs 
have shown decreased efficacy in the Southeast Asian region. Fortunately, 
artemisinin has an excellent safety profile and resistant infections can still 
be treated successfully by modifying the ACT. This review describes the 
pharmacological properties of ACTs, mechanisms of artemisinin resistance and the 
potential changes needed in the treatment regimens to overcome resistance. The 
suggested ACT modifications are extension of the duration of the ACT course, 
alternating use of different ACT regimens, and addition of another antimalarial 
drug to the standard ACTs (Triple-ACT). Furthermore, a malaria vaccine (e.g., 
RTS,S vaccine) could be added to mass drug administration (MDA) campaigns to 
enhance the treatment efficacy and to prevent further artemisinin resistance 
development. This review concludes that artemisinin remains the most important 
antimalarial drug, despite the development of drug-resistant falciparum malaria.

Copyright © 2022 Hanboonkunupakarn, Tarning, Pukrittayakamee and Chotivanich.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2022.876282
PMCID: PMC9538393
PMID: 36210819

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


257. Front Surg. 2022 Sep 23;9:1026079. doi: 10.3389/fsurg.2022.1026079.
eCollection  2022.

Improvement of brain perfusion in patients with chronic brain ischemia at 
epidural spinal cord electrical stimulation.

Zhao S(1), Sufianova G(2), Shapkin A(3), Mashkin A(4), Meshcheryakova S(5), Han 
D(6).

Author information:
(1)Emergency Medicine, First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University, 
Harbin, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Tyumen State Medical University, Tyumen, Russia.
(3)Department of Functional Neurosurgery, Federal Center of Neurosurgery, 
Tyumen, Russia.
(4)Educational and Scientific Institute of Neurosurgery, Peoples' Friendship 
University of Russia (RUDN University), Moscow, Russian.
(5)Department of General Chemistry, Bashkir State Medical University, Ufa, 
Russia.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, Harbin, China.

OBJECTIVE: Increasing life expectancy and aging of the population is accompanied 
by a steady increase in the number of elderly patients with chronic cerebral 
ischemia and age-related cognitive impairment associated with cerebral 
hypoperfusion and microangiopathy. The aim of this study was to identify 
long-term changes in cerebral blood flow (CBF) in patients with chronic cerebral 
ischemia at the epidural electrical stimulation of the spinal cord (SCS).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Changes in cerebral blood flow were studied according to 
CT perfusion in 59 patients (aged 55-78 years) with vertebrogenic pain syndromes 
and chronic cerebral ischemia during epidural electrical stimulation of the 
spinal cord at the cervical (C3-C5) and lower thoracic (Th9-Th10) levels.
RESULTS: In all patients, on the 5th day of trial SCS, an increase in cerebral 
blood flow by from 58.6 ± 1.13 ml/100 ml/min to 64.8 ± 1.21 ml/100 ml/min 
(p < 0.01) with stimulation at the Th9-Th10 level and from 
58.8 ± 1.12 ml/100 ml/min to 68.2 ± 1.42 ml/100 ml/min (p < 0, 01) with 
stimulation at the C3-C5 level. These changes in brain perfusion were preserved 
during the follow-up examination 1 year after the implantation of chronic SCS 
system. The greatest increase in CBF was registered in the frontotemporal 
regions, subcortical structures and white matter of the brain. Changes in 
cerebral perfusion did not correlate with the degree of reduction in the 
severity of the accompanying pain syndrome. The change in CBF in the control 
group (32 patients) in all periods was not statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Our results show that SCS is accompanied by a persistent improvement 
in brain perfusion, which may be potentially useful for developing methods for 
reducing age-related vascular disorders in the elderly.

© Zhao, Sufianova, Shapkin, Mashkin, Meshcheryakova and Han.

DOI: 10.3389/fsurg.2022.1026079
PMCID: PMC9539408
PMID: 36211284

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


258. Front Public Health. 2022 Sep 21;10:953827. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.953827. 
eCollection 2022.

Regional well-being inequalities arising from healthcare expenditure public 
policies in Spain.

Valls Martínez MDC(1), Grasso MS(1), Montero JM(2).

Author information:
(1)European Research Center on Economics and Sustainable Development, Economics 
and Business Department, University of Almería, Almería, Spain.
(2)Department of Political Economy and Public Finance, Economic and Business 
Statistics, and Economic Policy, University of Castilla-La Mancha, Toledo, 
Spain.

Well-being inequalities arising from different healthcare expenditure public 
policies is currently a hot topic at a national scale, but especially so at a 
sub-national level because the inequalities in question are among citizens of 
the same country. Spain is an optimal study area to carry out research on this 
topic because it is considered to have one of the best health systems in the 
world, it is one of the top-ranking countries in terms of life expectancy rates 
(the indicators we use for well-being), and it has a decentralized public health 
system with significantly different regional healthcare expenditure public 
