(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Increasing life expectancy is associated with a growing number of 
people living in nursing homes, while the availability of outpatient medical 
care, especially from family doctors, is stagnating in this sector. 
Consequently, numerous and often avoidable, low-threshold hospitalizations of 
nursing home residents are observed. This results in unnecessary use of 
resources such as emergency services and emergency rooms as well as in potential 
health risks to the nursing home residents related to hospitalization. This 
study aims to improve this healthcare gap by implementing an intersectoral 
telemedicine approach.
METHODS: Twenty-five nursing homes are participating and provided with 
telemedical equipment to perform teleconsultations. Additionally, an early 
warning system and a digital patient record system are implemented. 
Telephysicians based at RWTH Aachen University Hospital are ready to support the 
nursing homes around the clock if the family doctor or an emergency service 
practice is not available in time. Mobile non-physician practice assistants from 
the telemedicine centre can be dispatched to perform delegable medical 
activities. General practitioners and the medical emergency practices also have 
access to the telemedical infrastructure and the non-physician practice 
assistants.
DISCUSSION: Optimal@NRW adds a telemedicine component to standard care - 
combining elements of outpatient and inpatient health care as well as emergency 
service practices - to enable timely medical consultation for nursing home 
residents in case of the development of an acute medical condition. In addition 
to optimized medical care, the goal is to reduce unnecessary hospital 
admissions. The intersectoral approach allows for the appropriate use of 
resources to match the individually needed medical treatment.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT04879537 . Registered on May 10, 2021.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-022-06613-1
PMCID: PMC9513974
PMID: 36167557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests


116. Cureus. 2022 Aug 23;14(8):e28329. doi: 10.7759/cureus.28329. eCollection
2022  Aug.

Hyperparathyroidism Jaw-Tumor Syndrome: A Case Report From a Radiological View.

Khan MM(1), Fazli H(2), Bilal Khan T(3), Tehrany PM(4), Bacani N(5).

Author information:
(1)Radiology, Institute of Nuclear Medicine & Oncology Lahore, Lahore, PAK.
(2)Radiology, Services Hospital, Lahore, PAK.
(3)Radiology, Mayo Hospital, Lahore, PAK.
(4)Orthopedics, National University of Malaysia, Kuala Lampur, MYS.
(5)Surgery, Avalon University School of Medicine, Arizona, USA.

Limited formal guidelines, scarcity of cases, and variable manifestation forms 
all contribute to the challenges of diagnosing hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor 
(HPT-JT) syndrome. This condition characterized by parathyroid tumors, 
fibro-osseous jaw tumors, and renal and gynecological pathologies results in 
significant morbidity, restricted functionality, and malignancy risk. Genetic 
testing is the gold standard investigation to evaluate for CDC73 mutations, that 
cause HPT-JT syndrome. Genetic testing for CDC73 mutations should be encouraged 
among family members of affected individuals. Surgery is the mainstay of 
treatment for many of the encountered pathologic entities. We report a 
42-year-old female with a history of infertility and right subtrochanteric 
femoral fracture secondary to osteoporosis. The patient was suspected to have 
primary hyperparathyroidism secondary to parathyroid adenomas that were later 
biochemically and scintigraphically proved with subsequent partial 
parathyroidectomy. One and a half years following the initial presentation, the 
patient developed gradual swelling of the lower face with regional osseous 
involvement in addition to the clinical and radiological picture of recurrent 
parathyroid adenoma. We present this rare diagnosis of HPT-JT syndrome to 
promote awareness among physicians regarding this essential differential 
diagnosis. A low threshold for genetic testing and a high index of suspicion for 
HPT-JT syndrome must be kept in cases of patients presenting with high 
parathyroid hormone levels and masses. The screening must extend to all the 
family members as well. With this approach, the high morbidity, facial 
disfigurement, and significant malignancy risk can be lowered in the affected 
individuals improving their life expectancy.

Copyright © 2022, Khan et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.28329
PMCID: PMC9500404
PMID: 36168380

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


117. Int J Clin Health Psychol. 2023 Jan-Apr;23(1):100339. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijchp.2022.100339. Epub 2022 Sep 14.

Loneliness, ageism, and mental health: The buffering role of resilience in 
seniors.

Ribeiro-Gonçalves JA(1), Costa PA(1), Leal I(1).

Author information:
(1)William James Center for Research, ISPA - University Institute, Portugal.

INTRODUCTION: Ageism and loneliness are two relevant public health phenomena 
because of their negative impact on the senior's mental health. With the 
increase in average life expectancy, these tend to co-occur, which may increase 
the psychological distress (PD) of seniors. Resilience has been shown to be an 
important protective factor of seniors mental health, although its potential 
buffering role of public health risk factors with cumulative impact on mental 
health, such as loneliness and ageism, needs to be more studied.
AIM: To assess the potential mediator role of resilience between the effects of 
ageism and loneliness on PD in seniors.
METHODS: A sample of 349 Portuguese seniors aged 60 years and over was collected 
through an online survey and during the COVID-19 pandemic period. Seniors 
completed the Kessler Psychological Distress Scale (K6), the Short-Form of UCLA 
Loneliness Scale (USL-6), the Ambivalent Ageism Scale (AAS) and the 
Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC-10). A mediation analysis model was 
developed with resilience as a mediating variable.
RESULTS: There were moderate to high levels of PD and moderate levels of ageism, 
loneliness and resilience. Resilience fully mediated the effect of ageism on PD 
and partially mediated the effect of loneliness on PD.
CONCLUSIONS: Resilience was an important protective factor of mental health 
against the effects of ageism, and partially protected mental health from the 
effects of loneliness among seniors. It is suggested that resilience be 
considered as a factor to be integrated in future intervention programs for 
mental health. The practical applicability of this study is discussed.

© 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijchp.2022.100339
PMCID: PMC9485034
PMID: 36168598

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest. The 
authors alone are responsible for the content and writing of the paper.


118. Adv Gerontol. 2022;35(3):333-340.

[Age-related resilience as a manifestation of neurovegetative regulation of 
organism's functions.].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Rubinskiy AV(1)(2), Chalisova NI(2)(3), Linkova NS(2)(4), Marchenko VN(1).

Author information:
(1)I.P.Pavlov First Saint-Petersburg State Medical Institute, 6-8 L.Tolstoy 
str., St. Petersburg 197022, Russian Federation.
(2)Saint-Petersburg Institute of Bioregulation and Gerontology, 3 pr. Dinamo, 
St. Petersburg 197110, Russian Federation, e-mail: miayy@yandex.ru.
(3)I.P.Pavlov Institute of Physiology RAS, 6 Makarov emb., St. Petersburg 
199034, Russian Federation.
(4)Belgorod State National Research University, 85 Pobedy str., Belgorod 308015, 
Russian Federation.

The concept of human resilience was created to search for new approaches to 
improving the well-being of middle-aged, elderly and old people. Resilience is 
based on the physiological mechanisms of maintaining homeostasis and the ability 
of organs and tissues to regenerate. Identifying the correlation between 
environmental factors and the level of reactivity of the body is an important 
aspect in assessing viability. It contributes to an increase in human life 
expectancy. Age-related resilience is based on neurophysiological mechanisms of 
protective processes at different levels, including neural networks and 
epigenetic mechanisms regulating the expression of MANF, TIMP-2, adropin, 
irisin, CCL2, CCLR2, β2M genes. The study of medical, psychological, and social 
indicators of resilience will contribute to the development of new approaches to 
the correction of age-related pathology.

Publisher: Концепция жизнеспособности человека создана для поиска новых подходов 
к повышению благополучия лиц среднего, пожилого и старческого возраста. 
Жизнеспособность человека основывается на физиологических механизмах поддержания 
гомеостаза и способности органов и тканей к регенерации. Выявление корреляции 
факторов окружающей среды и уровня реактивности организма является важным 
аспектом в оценке жизнеспособности и способствует увеличению продолжительности 
жизни человека. В основе возрастной жизнеспособности лежат нейрофизиологические 
механизмы защитных процессов на разных уровнях, включая нейронные сети и 
эпигенетические механизмы регуляции экспрессии генов MANF, TIMP-2, адропина, 
ирисина, CCL2, CCLR2, β2M. Исследование медицинских, психологических, социальных 
показателей жизнеспособности будет способствовать разработке новых подходов к 
коррекции возрастной патологии.

PMID: 36169359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Adv Gerontol. 2022;35(3):399-407.

[Transcheter aortic valve implantation as a method of treatment of chronic heart 
failure in elderly and old patients: Literature review (part 2).].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Bogomolov AN(1), Imaev TE(2), Shishkevich AN(3), Komlev AE(2), Senkina EI(1), 
Lukyanov NG(3), Bashkatova LV(4), Kozlov KL(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Saint-Petersburg Institute of Bioregulation and Gerontology, 3 pr. Dinamo, 
St. Petersburg 197110, Russian Federation, e-mail: endovsurg@gmail.com.
(2)A.L.Myasnikov Institute of Clinical Cardiology, National Medical Cardiology 
Research Center, 15a 3rd Cherepkovskaya str., Moscow194044, Russian Federation.
(3)S.M.Kirov Military Medical Academy, 6 Lebedev str., St. Petersburg 194175, 
Russian Federation.
(4)3rd A.A.Vishnevsky Central Military Clinical Hospital, 1 v. Novy, urban 
district Krasnogorsk, Moscow region 143409, Russian Federation.

The most common heart valve defect among the elderly and senile is aortic valve 
stenosis. The traditional method of treating severe aortic valve stenosis is 
open surgery to replace aortic valve. At the same time, a more modern, minimally 
invasive method of correcting aortic stenosis is transcatheter aortic valve 
implantation (TAVI). This intervention is primarily indicated for patients of 
old age suffering from severe chronic heart failure associated with aortic 
stenosis, who have a high surgical risk. Currently, TAVI has evolved from a 
complex and dangerous procedure into an effective and safe method of treatment 
thanks to the development of a new generation of devices. Currently, there are 
still topical issues of using TAVI in individual clinical cases (use of TAVI in 
the elderly (60-75 years), TAVI in centenarians (90 years or more), TAVI in 
frailty, the feasibility of performing TAVI with low surgical risk, etc.), as 
well as issues related to longevity valves used for TAVI and prognosis in terms 
of quality and life expectancy.

Publisher: Самым распространенным пороком клапанов сердца у лиц пожилого и 
старческого возраста является стеноз аортального клапана. Традиционным методом 
лечения тяжелого аортального стеноза (АС) считается открытая операция по замене 
аортального клапана. Более современным малоинвазивным методом коррекции АС 
является транскатетерная имплантация аортального клапана (TAVI). Данное 
вмешательство прежде всего показано пациентам старческого возраста и высокого 
хирургического риска, страдающим тяжелой ХСН, обусловленной АС. В настоящее 
время TAVI превратилась из сложной и опасной процедуры в эффективный и 
безопасный метод лечения благодаря разработке устройств нового поколения. При 
этом актуальными остаются вопросы использования TAVI в отдельных клинических 
случаях: применение TAVI в пожилом возрасте (60–75 лет), TAVI у долгожителей (90 
лет и более), TAVI при старческой астении (frailty), целесообразность TAVI при 
низком хирургическом риске и другие, а также вопросы, связанные с долговечностью 
клапанов, применяемых для TAVI, и прогнозом в отношении качества и 
продолжительности жизни.

PMID: 36169368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Arq Bras Oftalmol. 2022 Sep 23:S0004-27492022005010216. doi: 
10.5935/0004-2749.2021-0395. Online ahead of print.

Long-term evaluation of the efficacy and safety of Nd:YAG laser vitreolysis for 
symptomatic vitreous foaters.

Nunes GM(1), Ludwig GD(1), Gemelli H(1), Zanotele M(1), Serracarbassa PD(1).

Author information:
(1)Ophthalmology Department, Hospital do Servidor Público Estadual, São Paulo, 
SP, Brazil.

PURPOSE: This study aimed to evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of 
neodymium-doped yttrium aluminum garnet (Nd:YAG) vitreolysis for symptomatic 
vitreous floaters as it remains a controversial procedure due to insufficient 
robust evidence in the literature for the maintenance of the results and absence 
of adverse effects.
METHODS: This is an observational extension to the previously presented 
prospective, randomized, double-blind clinical trial. Eight of thirteen subjects 
who underwent vitreolysis with YAG laser returned for a late reevaluation, 18 
months after the procedure, to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the 
procedure.
RESULTS: All patients maintained the improvement in symptomatology noted after 
the procedure, with 25% showing complete improvement and a similar proportion 
(37.5%) reporting significant or partial improvement. Objective improvement in 
opacity was similar to that found at 6 months follow-up. The NEI-VFQ 25 quality 
of life questionnaire showed no statistically significant difference in 
responses between the 6th and 18th month. No adverse effects were noted on 
clinical examination or reported by patients.
CONCLUSION: Vitreolysis efficacy observed at 6 months of follow-up was 
maintained until the eighteenth month, with all patients reporting improvement 
from the pre-procedure state. No late adverse effects were noted. A larger 
randomized clinical trial is needed to confirm the safety of the procedure.

DOI: 10.5935/0004-2749.2021-0395
PMID: 36169439121. J Infect. 2022 Dec;85(6):676-682. doi: 10.1016/j.jinf.2022.09.021. Epub 2022
Sep  25.

Cost-effectiveness of pharmacy-led versus conventionally delivered antiviral 
treatment for hepatitis C in patients receiving opioid substitution therapy: An 
economic evaluation alongside a pragmatic cluster randomised trial.

Myring G(1), Lim AG(2), Hollingworth W(3), McLeod H(3), Beer L(4), Vickerman 
P(2), Hickman M(2), Radley A(5), Dillon JF(5).

Author information:
(1)Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University of Bristol, 
BS8 1UD, UK; The National Institute for Health Research Applied Research 
Collaboration West (NIHR ARC West) at University Hospitals Bristol and Weston 
NHS Foundation Trust, Bristol BS1 2NT, UK. Electronic address: 
gareth.myring@bristol.ac.uk.
(2)Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University of Bristol, 
BS8 1UD, UK.
(3)Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University of Bristol, 
BS8 1UD, UK; The National Institute for Health Research Applied Research 
Collaboration West (NIHR ARC West) at University Hospitals Bristol and Weston 
NHS Foundation Trust, Bristol BS1 2NT, UK.
(4)Tayside Clinical Trials Unit, Tayside Medical Science Centre, University of 
Dundee, Dundee DD1 9SY, UK.
(5)Hepatology & Gastroenterology, Clinical & Molecular Medicine, School of 
Medicine, University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 9SY, UK.

BACKGROUND: Elimination targets for hepatitis C have been set across the world. 
In the UK almost 90% of infections are in people who inject drugs. Evidence 
shows community case-finding is effective at identifying and treating 
undiagnosed patients. The aim of this analysis was to assess, from a healthcare 
provider perspective, the cost-effectiveness of a new pharmacist-led test and 
treat pathway for hepatitis C in opioid agonist treatment (OAT) patients 
attending community pharmacies compared to conventional care.
METHODS: In a cluster randomised controlled trial, pharmacies were randomised to 
the pharmacist-led or conventional care pathway. Mean cost per OAT patient and 
per patient initiating treatment was identified for each pathway. A Markov model 
tracking disease progression was developed, with a 50-year time horizon and 3·5% 
time discount rate, to estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained and the probability of being 
cost-effective at a £30,000 per QALY willingness-to-pay threshold. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis was performed for a range of drug discounts, re-infection 
rates, and model assumptions.
FINDINGS: Mean cost per OAT patient (£3,674 vs £1,965) and per patient 
initiating treatment (£863 vs £404) was higher in the pharmacist-led pathway, 
due to higher uptake of testing and pharmacist time requirements. Over a 50-year 
time horizon the ICER per QALY gained was £31,612 at NHS indicative price for 
treatment (£38,979 for 12 weeks) and 12·1/100 person-years re-infection rate, 
reducing to £21,027/£10,220/-£501 per QALY gained with 30%/60%/90% drug price 
discounts and £25,373/£21,738/£14,912 per QALY gained at re-infection rates of 
8/5/2 per 100 person-years. At 30%/60%/90% drug discount rates, the 
pharmacist-led pathway has an 80%/98%/100% probability of being cost-effective.
INTERPRETATION: The pharmacist-led pathway is effective at increasing testing 
and treatment uptake, with cost-effectiveness being highly dependent on drug 
price discounts.
FUNDING: Trial funding provided by the Scottish Government, Gilead Sciences, and 
Bristol-Myers Squibb.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jinf.2022.09.021
PMID: 36170895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest AR received 
grants from Gilead and Bristol-Myers Squibb during the study and received grants 
from Roche and AbbVie outside the study. JFD received grants from the Scottish 
Government Department of Health, Gilead, and Bristol-Myers Squibb during the 
study; and AbbVie, MSD, Janssen, Roche, and Genedrive outside the study. All 
other authors declare no competing interests.


122. BMJ. 2022 Sep 28;378:o2345. doi: 10.1136/bmj.o2345.

Devolution of public services in Manchester led to modest improvement in life 
expectancy, study shows.

O'Dowd A(1).

Author information:
(1)London.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.o2345
PMID: 36171002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. BMJ Open. 2022 Sep 28;12(9):e063230. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-063230.

Process of pain assessment in people with dementia living in nursing homes: a 
scoping review protocol.

Overen CK(1)(2), Larsson M(3), Hillestad AH(2), Eriksen S(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Sciences, Department of Nursing, Karlstad University, 
Faculty of Health, Science and Technology, Karlstad, Sweden 
caroline.kreppen.overen@ldh.no.
(2)Bachelor Education in Nursing, Lovisenberg Diaconal University College, Oslo, 
Norway.
(3)Institute of Health Sciences, Department of Nursing, Karlstad University, 
Faculty of Health, Science and Technology, Karlstad, Sweden.
(4)Norwegian National Centre for Ageing and Health, Tønsberg, Norway.

INTRODUCTION: Pain is a common symptom in people with dementia; untreated, it 
reduces quality of life and causes suffering. People with dementia living in 
nursing homes most often have dementia in moderate to severe stages. The 
cognitive impairment, including language and communication difficulties, 
challenges pain assessment. Since pain is a subjective experience, 
self-reporting is the gold standard of assessment methods. Healthcare 
professionals are advised to help people with dementia communicate about their 
pain. The proposed scoping review is the first step in the development of a 
systematic pain assessment model for people with dementia living in nursing 
homes. The scoping review aims to identify, categorise and summarise knowledge 
on how pain assessment processes in this population are described in the 
literature, with a special focus on self-reporting.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The scoping review will be conducted following the 
six-stage framework developed by Arksey and O'Malley, in addition to recent 
methodological developments. Systematic searches in CINAHL, Embase, Medline and 
PsycInfo will be conducted. The protocol follows the Preferred Reporting Items 
for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis Protocols (PRISMA-P) and Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping 
Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) checklists, and the scoping review will adhere to the 
PRISMA-ScR checklist. The review will include research that concerns assessment 
of pain in people with dementia living in nursing homes. Studies will be 
evaluated for quality and ethical standards. The analysis process will follow 
Bradbury-Jones et al's PAGER framework. Patterns will be formed using thematic 
analysis. An overview of advances, gaps, evidence for practice and research 
recommendations associated with each pattern will be prepared. The research 
questions and results will be presented to and discussed in a reference group 
comprising nursing home residents, relatives, healthcare professionals and 
nursing home managers.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The scoping review aims to collect and summarise data 
from available publications and does not require ethical approval. The final 
manuscript will be submitted to a peer-reviewed, open-access journal. 
REGISTRATION IN OPEN SCIENCE FRAMEWORK: https://osf.io/8kaf5/.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-063230
PMCID: PMC9528625
PMID: 36171025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


124. Food Sci Nutr. 2022 May 8;10(9):3062-3071. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.2905.
eCollection  2022 Sep.

Inhibitory effects of pH, salinity, and tea polyphenols concentration on the 
specific spoilage organisms isolated from lightly-salted large yellow croaker 
(Pseudosciaena crocea).

Guo QY(1), Shan K(1), Yang X(1), Jiang CJ(1), Zhu L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)East China Sea Fisheries Research Institute，Chinese Academy of Fishery 
Sciences Shanghai China.
(2)University of Shanghai for Science and Technology Shanghai China.

Proteus vulgaris and Hafnia alvei were identified as specific spoilage organisms 
(SSOs) isolated from the refrigerated lightly-salted large yellow croaker 
(Pseudosciaena crocea). In this work, the inhibitory effects of pH, salinity, 
and tea polyphenols concentration on both strains were investigated. Modified 
Gompertz models were used to estimate the kinetic parameters μm (maximum 
specific growth rate) and λ (duration of lag phase) of the two strains under 
different conditions, demonstrating that their growth rates decreased with the 
decrease of pH as well as the increase of salinity and tea polyphenols 
concentration, and the growths of both strains stopped while the salinity and 
tea polyphenols concentration increased to 0.05 and 5%, respectively. Response 
surface methodology (RSM) based on a three-level three-factor Box-Behnken Design 
(BBD) was employed to optimize the combination of these three antibacterial 
factors. The results showed that the optimum inhibitory conditions were: tea 
polyphenols concentration 0.05%, salinity 3.46%, and pH 6.96 to inhibit the 
growth of P. vulgaris; tea polyphenols concentration 0.05%, salinity 3.45%, and 
pH 6.94 to inhibit H. alvei. Validation experiments were performed and 
demonstrated that under these conditions, the growth of the two SSOs could be 
100% inhibited. This research provided references for the inhibition of the SSOs 
of lightly-salted large yellow croaker and the extension of its shelf life.

© 2022 The Authors. Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.2905
PMCID: PMC9469860
PMID: 36171782

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they do not have any 
conflict of interest.


125. Front Pharmacol. 2022 Sep 12;13:936678. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2022.936678. 
eCollection 2022.

Efficacy and safety of Abelmoschus moschatus capsules combined with tripterygium 
glycoside tablets on diabetic nephropathy: A systematic review and 
meta-analysis.

Zhou P(1)(2), Hao Z(1)(2), Xu W(1)(2), Zhou X(1), Yu J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Jiangsu Province Hospital of Chinese Medicine, 
Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, China.
(2)The First Clinical Medical College, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Nanjing, China.

Background: Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is one of the most serious chronic 
micro-vascular complications of diabetes and the leading cause of end-stage 
kidney disease (ESRD) worldwide, with reduced expectancy and quality of life and 
colossal financial and social burden worldwide. In spite of emerging treatments 
on DN, effective therapy on delaying the progression of DN is still lacking. In 
clinical practice, there are many studies focusing on Abelmoschus moschatus (AM) 
capsules together with Tripterygium glycoside (TG) tablets in the treatment of 
DN, and excellent results have been obtained. Objective: The study aimed to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of AM combined with TG in the treatment of DN. 
Methods: Databases including PubMed, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, Embase, 
CNKI, WF, and VIP were searched from their inception to 1 March 2022. The "risk 
of bias" evaluation tool produced by the Cochrane Collaboration Handbook was 
used for evaluating the quality of the included studies. Revman 5.3 software was 
used for meta-analysis. Results: Here, 11 studies with a total of 1,072 
participants were included for this meta-analysis. Our results showed that AM 
combined with TG plus basic treatment could lower levels of 24 h-UP [MD = -0.18; 
95% CI: (-0.21, -0.14); p < 0.00001], Scr [MD = -15.29; 95% CI: (-28.69, -1.88); 
p = 0.03], and BUN [MD = -1.18; 95% CI: (-1.69, -0.68); p < 0.00001]. Meanwhile, 
the adverse reaction rate increased in the combination group [RR = 1.88; 95% CI 
(1.26, 2.82); p = 0.002]. Conclusion: Current evidence suggests that AM combined 
with TG may be more effective in the treatment of DN, which will be highly 
beneficial to further theoretical discussion and practical clinical 
applications. However, the safety cannot be ignored because of nearly increasing 
2-fold adverse events, although they can be mitigated through systematic 
treatment. Meanwhile, due to low quality of the included studies, great 
possibility of publication bias, and large heterogeneity among different 
studies, the results of our review should be evaluated with more prudence and 
high-quality RCTs are warranted to confirm this in the future. Systematic review 
Registration: www.crd.york.ac.uk, identifier CRD42022344359.

Copyright © 2022 Zhou, Hao, Xu, Zhou and Yu.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2022.936678
PMCID: PMC9511110
PMID: 36172199

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


126. JTCVS Open. 2022 Jul 2;11:132-145. doi: 10.1016/j.xjon.2022.06.019.
eCollection  2022 Sep.

Incremental cost-effectiveness of extracorporeal membranous oxygenation as a 
bridge to cardiac transplant or left ventricular assist device placement in 
patients with refractory cardiogenic shock.

Reza J(1), Mila A(1), Ledzian B(2), Sun J(3), Silvestry S(2).

Author information:
(1)General Surgery Residency Program, AdventHealth Orlando, Orlando, Fla.
(2)AdventHealth Transplant Institute, Thoracic Transplant and Cardiovascular 
Surgery, AdventHealth Orlando, Orlando, Fla.
(3)Center for Academic Research, AdventHealth Orlando, Orlando, Fla.

OBJECTIVE: Emerging literature has described using venoarterial extracorporeal 
membranous oxygenation (ECMO) as a bridge to transplant or left ventricular 
assist device (LVAD) placement. We sought to identify the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of ECMO used as a bridge to cardiac transplant 
or LVAD.
METHODS: Patients with refractory cardiogenic shock who received venoarterial 
ECMO and were bridged to either cardiac transplant (n = 7) or a HeartMate 3 LVAD 
(n = 6) placement were included. Markov modeling was used, comparing ECMO 
bridging with non-ECMO-bridged patients. Cohorts entered the model alive and at 
every 1-year cycle, were exposed to risk of death, and ran forward for 20 years 
after transplant or LVAD.
RESULTS: Patients bridged with ECMO to cardiac transplant were stratified as 
group 1 whereas those bridged with ECMO to LVAD were stratified as group 2. The 
average ECMO run was 3 days in group 1 versus 11 days in group 2. Among group 1 
patients, the ICER was $246,629 but was paired with a longer life expectancy. 
The ICER of group 2 patients was -$107,088 and was not paired with a longer life 
expectancy. The average inpatient cost for group 1 was found to be $636,023 
versus $769,471 for group 2 patients. The average inpatient costs for patients 
not bridged to ECMO who received cardiac transplant or LVAD was $538,928 and 
$325,242, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Using ECMO to bridge to transplant or LVAD placement is not cost 
effective. However, patients bridged to transplant are paired with longer life 
expectancy in contrast to patients bridged to LVAD.

© 2022 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.xjon.2022.06.019
PMCID: PMC9510879
PMID: 36172402


127. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2022 Sep 1;23(9):2907-2919. doi: 
10.31557/APJCP.2022.23.9.2907.

Epidemiology of Bladder Cancer in the Arab World: 2019 Global Burden of Disease 
Data.

Al Saidi I(1), Mohamedabugroon A(1), Sawalha A(1), Sultan I(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Jordan, Amman, Jordan.
(2)Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, King Hussein Cancer Center, 
Amman, Jordan.

BACKGROUND: Urinary bladder cancer (UBC) has unique epidemiology. It is well 
known that some Arab countries have higher incidence of UBC due to certain risk 
factors, including schistosomiasis and smoking.
METHODS: We systematically reviewed the Global Burden of Disease study (GBD) 
database for the year 2019. We queried GBD study database using results tool for 
UBC in the 22 Arab countries and compared the age-standardized incidence rate 
(ASIR), death rate (ASDR), mortality-to-incidence ratio (MIR) and 
Disability-Adjusted Life Years (ASDALYs) in Arab countries with global values.
RESULTS: The Arab population represents 5.6% of the global population. There was 
an estimated number of 27,503 patients diagnosed with UBC in 2019 in the Arab 
world. The ASIR for developing UBC in the Arab countries was 9.9/100,000; which 
is higher than the average global ASIR (6.5/100,000). Specifically, the ASIR was 
higher than the global average in 11 out of the 22 Arab countries. Notably, the 
age-specific incidence in Egypt showed that younger individuals had higher 
incidence of UBC than other countries, reflecting unique epidemiology. It is 
estimated that 10,532 patients died of UBC in the Arab world in 2019. The 
average mortality-to-incidence ratio (MIR) was estimated to be 0.448. The burden 
of UBC as estimated by the number of DALYs in the Arab world was 272,976 years 
representing 4% of cancer burden in Arab countries and 6.2% of the global DALYs 
related to UBC.
CONCLUSION: UBC has high incidence in many Arab countries, particularly in North 
Africa.  Risk factors are known and are modifiable, making prevention the most 
optimal way to reduce disease burden. High MIR in many Arab countries reflects 
suboptimal management and a window for improvement.

DOI: 10.31557/APJCP.2022.23.9.2907
PMCID: PMC9810290
PMID: 36172652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Ibrahim Al Saidi, Ali Mohamedabugroon, Amer 
Sawalha and Iyad Sultan declare that they have no conflict of interest.


128. Protein Sci. 2022 Oct;31(10):e4433. doi: 10.1002/pro.4433.

Effects of targeting signal mutations in a mitochondrial presequence on the 
spatial distribution of the conformational ensemble in the binding site of 
Tom20.

Han X(1), Maita N(1)(2), Shimada A(1), Kohda D(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Structural Biology, Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu 
University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(2)Institute for Quantum Life Science, National Institutes for Quantum Science 
and Technology, Chiba, Japan.

The 20-kDa TOM (translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane) subunit, Tom20, is 
the first receptor of the protein import pathway into mitochondria. Tom20 
recognizes the mitochondrial targeting signal embedded in the presequences 
attached to mature mitochondrial proteins, as an N-terminal extension. 
Consequently, ~1,000 different mitochondrial proteins are sorted into the 
mitochondrial matrix, and distinguished from non-mitochondrial proteins. We 
previously reported the MPRIDE (multiple partial recognitions in dynamic 
equilibrium) mechanism to explain the structural basis of the promiscuous 
recognition of presequences by Tom20. A subset of the targeting signal features 
is recognized in each pose of the presequence in the binding state, and all of 
the features are collectively recognized in the dynamic equilibrium between the 
poses. Here, we changed the volumes of the hydrophobic side chains in the 
targeting signal, while maintaining the binding affinity. We tethered the 
mutated presequences to the binding site of Tom20 and placed them in the crystal 
contact-free space (CCFS) created in the crystal lattice. The spatial 
distributions of the mutated presequences were visualized as smeared electron 
densities in the low-pass filtered difference maps obtained by X-ray 
crystallography. The mutated presequence ensembles shifted their positions in 
the binding state to accommodate the larger side chains, thus providing positive 
evidence supporting the use of the MPRIDE mechanism in the promiscuous 
recognition by Tom20.

© 2022 The Protein Society.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.4433
PMCID: PMC9490799
PMID: 36173160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


129. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2022 Sep 30;71(39):1241-1246. doi: 
10.15585/mmwr.mm7139e1.

Vital Signs: Use of Recommended Health Care Measures to Prevent Selected 
Complications of Sickle Cell Anemia in Children and Adolescents - Selected U.S. 
States, 2019.

Schieve LA, Simmons GM, Payne AB, Abe K, Hsu LL, Hulihan M, Pope S, Rhie S, 
Dupervil B, Hooper WC.

INTRODUCTION: Sickle cell disease (SCD), a group of inherited blood cell 
disorders that primarily affects Black or African American persons, is 
associated with severe complications and a >20-year reduction in life 
expectancy. In 2014, an expert panel convened by the National Heart, Lung, and 
Blood Institute issued recommendations to prevent or reduce complications in 
children and adolescents with the most severe SCD subtypes, known as sickle cell 
anemia (SCA); recommendations included 1) annual screening of children and 
adolescents aged 2-16 years with transcranial Doppler (TCD) ultrasound to 
identify those at risk for stroke and 2) offering hydroxyurea therapy to 
children and adolescents aged ≥9 months to reduce the risk for several 
life-threatening complications.
METHODS: Data from the IBM MarketScan Multi-State Medicaid Database were 
analyzed. TCD screening and hydroxyurea use were examined for 3,352 children and 
adolescents with SCA aged 2-16 years and continuously enrolled in Medicaid 
during 2019. Percentage change during 2014-2019 and variation by health 
subgroups were assessed. Analyses were stratified by age.
RESULTS: During 2014-2019, TCD screening increased 27% among children and 
adolescents aged 10-16 years; hydroxyurea use increased 27% among children aged 
2-9 years and 23% among children and adolescents aged 10-16 years. However, in 
2019, only 47% and 38% of children and adolescents aged 2-9 and 10-16 years, 
respectively, had received TCD screening and 38% and 53% of children and 
adolescents aged 2-9 years and 10-16 years, respectively, used hydroxyurea. For 
both prevention strategies, usage was highest among children and adolescents 
with high levels of health care utilization and evidence of previous 
complications indicative of severe disease.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS FOR PUBLIC HEALTH PRACTICE: Despite increases since 
2014, TCD screening and hydroxyurea use remain low among children and 
adolescents with SCA. Health care providers should implement quality care 
strategies within their clinics and partner with patients, families, and 
community-based organizations to address barriers to delivering and receiving 
recommended care.

DOI: 10.15585/mmwr.mm7139e1
PMCID: PMC9533731
PMID: 36173745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors have completed and submitted the 
International Committee of Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of 
potential conflicts of interest. Lewis L. Hsu reports institutional support from 
the Health Resources and Services Administration, the National Institutes of 
Health (NIH), the European Commission, the Illinois Department of Public Health, 
the Joy in Childhood Foundation, Global Blood Therapeutics, Forma Therapeutics, 
Imara, Baxalta, Cyclerion, and Eli Lilly; consulting fees from DuPont Nemours 
Children’s Hospital, Hoffman-LaRoche, DisperSol, Guidepoint, Magellan, 
Deerfield, and Kuwait University; speaker honoraria from the Foundation for 
Sickle Cell Disease Research, Bridgeport Hospital, and Tova Health Center; 
participation on an Aruvant Data Safety Monitoring Board and service as a 
scientific advisor or member of an expert advisory board for the NIH Sickle Cell 
Disease Advisory Committee, Hilton Publishing, and the Illinois Universal 
Newborn Screening Advisory Committee; and unpaid memberships in the Sickle Cell 
Disease Association of America, the Sickle Cell Disease Association of Illinois, 
and the National Alliance of Sickle Cell Centers. No other potential conflicts 
of interest were disclosed.


130. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2022 Nov 30;18(6):2123883. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2022.2123883. Epub 2022 Sep 29.

Determinants of basic childhood vaccination coverage in European and OECD 
countries.

Varbanova V(1), Verelst F(1), Hens N(1)(2), Beutels P(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics Research and Modelling Infectious Diseases, 
Vaccine & Infectious Disease Institute, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(2)Center for Statistics (CenStat, Interuniversity Institute of Biostatistics 
and statistical Bioinformatics (I-BioStat) and Data Science Institute, Hasselt 
University, Hasselt, Belgium.

Vaccination coverage varies between countries and over time. Using official 
databases, we extracted data on 50 national-level immunization, socio-economic, 
demographic, healthcare, and cultural factors, and the uptake of the third dose 
of diphtheria toxoid, tetanus toxoid, and pertussis vaccines (DTP3) and the 
first dose of measles-containing vaccines (MCV1) for 61 countries between 1990 
and 2019. The main branch of the analysis included all covariates, while a 
secondary branch excluded life-expectancy and child mortality. The statistical 
analysis was completed in three stages: a variable-selection stage via random 
forests; multilevel multiple imputation for missing data in the reduced dataset; 
and generalized estimating equations (GEE) over all imputed datasets with pooled 
results. Less than 20 covariates were retained after variable-selection. Among a 
relatively small number of statistically significant (p-value <.05) effects in 
the pooled GEE results of our main branch, under-5 mortality and long-term 
orientation culture showed negative associations with both uptake outcomes and 
GDP per capita a positive association. For MCV1, whether a second dose was 
integrated into routine immunization appeared as the overall strongest negative 
correlate. In the secondary analytical branch, results were largely consistent, 
with a few additional statistically significant effects emerging, mainly related 
to immunization and healthcare system characteristics. These insights improve 
our understanding of the main factors influencing vaccine uptake, some of which 
are broadly contextual (e.g., GDP, socio-cultural factors), requiring bespoke 
vaccine program approaches, in order to maximize childhood vaccine uptake over 
time.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2022.2123883
PMCID: PMC9746410
PMID: 36173818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Unrelated to the work reported here, the 
University of Antwerp has received unrestricted grants and compensation for 
meeting attendance with GSK, Merck, and Pfizer. FV contributed as a full-time 
employee of the University of Antwerp. In April 2022, after his contributions to 
this work ended, FV was employed by GSK.


131. Dev Cell. 2022 Oct 10;57(19):2290-2304.e7. doi:
10.1016/j.devcel.2022.09.003.  Epub 2022 Sep 28.

A feedback loop between lamellipodial extension and HGF-ERK signaling specifies 
leader cells during collective cell migration.

Hino N(1), Matsuda K(2), Jikko Y(3), Maryu G(4), Sakai K(5), Imamura R(5), 
Tsukiji S(6), Aoki K(7), Terai K(3), Hirashima T(8), Trepat X(9), Matsuda M(10).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Dynamic Living Systems, Graduate School of Biostudies, 
Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan; Institute of Science and 
Technology Austria, 3400 Klosterneuburg, Austria. Electronic address: 
naoya.hino@ist.ac.at.
(2)Research Center for Dynamic Living Systems, Graduate School of Biostudies, 
Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.
(3)Department of Pathology and Biology of Diseases, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.
(4)Division of Quantitative Biology, National Institute for Basic Biology, 
National Institutes of Natural Sciences, 5-1 Higashiyama, Myodaiji-cho, Okazaki, 
Aichi 444-8787, Japan.
(5)Division of Tumor Dynamics and Regulation, Cancer Research Institute, 
Kanazawa University, Kakuma, Kanazawa 920-1192, Japan; WPI-Nano Life Science 
Institute (WPI-NanoLSI), Kanazawa University, Kakuma, Kanazawa 920-1192, Japan.
(6)Department of Life Science and Applied Chemistry, Nagoya Institute of 
Technology, Gokiso-cho, Showa-ku, Nagoya 466-8555, Japan; Department of 
Nanopharmaceutical Sciences, Nagoya Institute of Technology, Gokiso-cho, 
Showa-ku, Nagoya 466-8555, Japan.
(7)Division of Quantitative Biology, National Institute for Basic Biology, 
National Institutes of Natural Sciences, 5-1 Higashiyama, Myodaiji-cho, Okazaki, 
Aichi 444-8787, Japan; Quantitative Biology Research Group, Exploratory Research 
Center on Life and Living Systems (ExCELLS), National Institutes of Natural 
Sciences, 5-1 Higashiyama, Myodaiji-cho, Okazaki, Aichi 444-8787, Japan; 
Department of Basic Biology, School of Life Science, SOKENDAI (The Graduate 
University for Advanced Studies), 5-1 Higashiyama, Myodaiji-cho, Okazaki, Aichi 
444-8787, Japan.
(8)Research Center for Dynamic Living Systems, Graduate School of Biostudies, 
Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan; Hakubi Center, Kyoto 
University, Kyoto, Japan; Japan Science and Technology Agency, Presto, 
Kawaguchi, Japan.
(9)Institute for Bioengineering of Catalonia, Barcelona 08028, Spain; Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Institució Catalana de 
Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), Barcelona, Spain; Center for Networked 
Biomedical Research on Bioengineering, Biomaterials and Nanomedicine 
(CIBER-BBN), Barcelona, Spain.
(10)Research Center for Dynamic Living Systems, Graduate School of Biostudies, 
Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan; Department of Pathology and 
Biology of Diseases, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, 
Kyoto 606-8501, Japan; Institute for Integrated Cell-Material Sciences, Kyoto 
University Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan. Electronic address: 
matsuda.michiyuki.2c@kyoto-u.ac.jp.

Upon the initiation of collective cell migration, the cells at the free edge are 
specified as leader cells; however, the mechanism underlying the leader cell 
specification remains elusive. Here, we show that lamellipodial extension after 
the release from mechanical confinement causes sustained extracellular 
signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activation and underlies the leader cell 
specification. Live-imaging of Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells and mouse 
epidermis through the use of Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET)-based 
biosensors showed that leader cells exhibit sustained ERK activation in a 
hepatocyte growth factor (HGF)-dependent manner. Meanwhile, follower cells 
exhibit oscillatory ERK activation waves in an epidermal growth factor (EGF) 
signaling-dependent manner. Lamellipodial extension at the free edge increases 
the cellular sensitivity to HGF. The HGF-dependent ERK activation, in turn, 
promotes lamellipodial extension, thereby forming a positive feedback loop 
between cell extension and ERK activation and specifying the cells at the free 
edge as the leader cells. Our findings show that the integration of physical and 
biochemical cues underlies the leader cell specification during collective cell 
migration.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.devcel.2022.09.003
PMID: 36174555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


132. Med Oncol. 2022 Sep 29;39(12):224. doi: 10.1007/s12032-022-01819-4.

Does immunotherapy change the treatment paradigm in metastatic gastric cancer?

Camera S(1), Liscia N(2), Foti S(2), Barbieri L(3), Cossu A(3), Puccetti F(3), 
Elmore U(3), Rosati R(3), Scartozzi M(4), Mazza E(2), Cascinu S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, 
Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, 20132, Milan, Italy. camera.silvia@hsr.it.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, 
Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, 20132, Milan, Italy.
(3)Gastrointestinal Surgery Unit, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, 
Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, 20132, Milan, Italy.
(4)Medical Oncology Unit, University Hospital and University of Cagliari, 09042, 
Cagliari, Italy.

Gastric cancer represents one of the leading causes of cancer-related death 
worldwide. Even if the last decade has witnessed an improvement in surgical and 
systemic treatments, with an increase of overall life expectancy, survival rates 
still remain unsatisfactory, especially for patients with metastatic disease. 
Systemic therapies represent the gold standard in the management of stage IV 
gastric cancer. In this scenario, the availability of effective second and third 
lines has represented for a long time the only hope to offer an overall survival 
improvement to these patients. Recently, the advent of immune checkpoint 
inhibitors has involved also gastric cancer with encouraging efficacy data in 
the metastatic setting, becoming integral part of the management of selected 
patients.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12032-022-01819-4
PMID: 36175723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. J Gen Intern Med. 2023 Mar;38(4):1008-1015. doi: 10.1007/s11606-022-07828-3.
 Epub 2022 Sep 29.

A Qualitative Study of Perspectives of Older Adults on Deintensifying Diabetes 
Medications.

Pilla SJ(1)(2)(3), Meza KA(4), Schoenborn NL(5), Boyd CM(6)(5)(7), Maruthur 
NM(4)(8)(7), Chander G(4)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of General Internal Medicine, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. spilla1@jhmi.edu.
(2)Welch Center for Prevention, Epidemiology and Clinical Research, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA. spilla1@jhmi.edu.
(3)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA. spilla1@jhmi.edu.
(4)Department of Medicine, Division of General Internal Medicine, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Division of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology, Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(6)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(7)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(8)Welch Center for Prevention, Epidemiology and Clinical Research, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 2023 Apr;38(5):1316.

BACKGROUND: While many older adults with type 2 diabetes have tight glycemic 
control beyond guideline-recommended targets, deintensifying (stopping or 
dose-reducing) diabetes medications rarely occurs.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the perspectives of older adults with type 2 diabetes 
around deintensifying diabetes medications.
DESIGN: This qualitative study used individual semi-structured interviews, which 
included three clinical scenarios where deintensification may be indicated.
PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-four adults aged ≥65 years with medication-treated type 2 
diabetes and hemoglobin A1c <7.5% were included (to thematic saturation) using a 
maximal variation sampling strategy for diabetes treatment and physician 
specialty.
APPROACH: Interviews were independently coded by two investigators and analyzed 
using a grounded theory approach. We identified major themes and subthemes and 
coded responses to the clinical scenarios as positive (in favor of 
deintensification), negative, or ambiguous.
KEY RESULTS: Participants' mean age was 74 years, half were women, and 58% used 
a sulfonylurea or insulin. The first of four major themes was fear of losing 
control of diabetes, which participants weighed against the benefits of taking 
less medication (Theme 2). Few participants viewed glycemic control below target 
as a reason for deintensification and a majority would restart the medication if 
their home glucose increased. Some participants were anchored to their current 
diabetes treatment (Theme 3) driven by unrealistic views of medication benefits. 
A trusting patient-provider relationship (Theme 4) was a positive influence. In 
clinical scenarios, 8%, 4%, and 75% of participants viewed deintensification 
positively in the setting of poor health, limited life expectancy, and high 
hypoglycemia risk, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Optimizing deintensification requires patient education that 
describes both individualized glycemic targets and how they will change over the 
lifespan. Deintensification is an opportunity for shared decision-making, but 
providers must understand patients' beliefs about their medications and address 
misconceptions. Hypoglycemia prevention may be a helpful framing for discussing 
deintensification.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society of General Internal 
Medicine.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-022-07828-3
PMCID: PMC10039184
PMID: 36175758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Boyd received honoraria for writing a 
chapter on Multiple Chronic Conditions for UpToDate, and a chapter on Falls in 
Older Adults for DynaMed.


134. Pharmacoeconomics. 2022 Dec;40(12):1159-1186. doi:
10.1007/s40273-022-01189-9.  Epub 2022 Sep 30.

A Systematic Literature Review of the Economic Evaluations of Treatments for 
Patients with Chronic Myeloid Leukemia.

Agrawal R(1), Vieira J(2), Ryan J(2), Negi H(1), Rajput T(1), Corbin R(3), Viana 
R(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Novartis Healthcare Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad, India.
(2)Novartis Pharmaceuticals UK Ltd., London, UK.
(3)Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp., East Hanover, NJ, USA.
(4)Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland. ricardo.viana@novartis.com.
(5)Worldwide Access Disease Lead, Hematology, Global Value & Access, Oncology, 
WSJ- Fabrikstrasse 18-3.330, 4056, Basel, Switzerland. 
ricardo.viana@novartis.com.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The management of chronic myeloid leukemia is 
associated with an extensive economic burden, and as novel interventions are 
being tested in this disease, understanding the comparative effectiveness is of 
interest. Findings and conclusions of this important issue continue to evolve 
with improvements in clinical research and economic understanding. This 
systematic literature review aims to conduct a comprehensive assessment of 
economic evaluations in chronic phase chronic myeloid leukemia.
METHODS: Embase®, MEDLINE®, and the National Health Service Economic Evaluation 
Database were searched on 4 July, 2022 to identify economic evaluations of 
chronic myeloid leukemia. Health technology assessment websites and key 
conference proceedings were also searched. Economic evaluations comparing 
treatment options in adult patients with chronic phase chronic myeloid leukemia 
were included. The quality of the studies were assessed using Drummond's 
checklists.
RESULTS: The search retrieved 47 studies and 16 health technology assessments 
that fulfilled the eligibility criteria. Most were cost-utility analyses (23 
studies and 11 health technology assessments) and were from the USA (n = 15) and 
China (n = 7). Twenty-seven studies and six health technology assessments 
included only patients with chronic phase chronic myeloid leukemia. Most models 
had a Markov structure, a 1 year to lifetime time horizon, and a 1-month cycle 
length. Commonly assessed treatments were various tyrosine kinase inhibitors 
(imatinib, nilotinib, dasatinib, bosutinib, and ponatinib) and other 
interventions such as interferon-α, hydroxyurea, and allogeneic stem cell 
transplant.
