policies. Given that the factors involved in the complex direct, indirect, and 
second-order relationships between well-being and health spending are latent in 
nature, and that there are more hypotheses than certainties regarding these 
relationships, we propose a partial least squares structural equation modeling 
specification to test the research hypotheses and to estimate the corresponding 
impacts. These constructs are proxied by a set of 26 indicators, for which 
annual values at a regional scale were used for the period 2005-2018. From the 
estimation of this model, it can be concluded that mortality, expenditure and 
resources are the factors that have the greatest impact on well-being. In 
addition, a cluster analysis of the indicators for the constructs included in 
this research reveals the existence of three clearly differentiated groups of 
autonomous communities: the northern part of the country plus Extremadura 
(characterized by the lowest well-being and the highest mortality rates), Madrid 
(with the best results in well-being and mortality, the lowest public health 
expenditure per inhabitant and percentage of pharmaceutical spending, and the 
highest percentage in specialty care services and medical staff spending), and 
the rest of the country (south-eastern regions, with similar well-being values 
to those of the first group but with less health expenditure). Finally, a 
principal component analysis reveals that "healthiness" and "basic spending" are 
the optimal factors for mapping well-being and health spending in Spain.

Copyright © 2022 Valls Martínez, Grasso and Montero.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.953827
PMCID: PMC9533108
PMID: 36211653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


259. Front Public Health. 2022 Sep 23;10:1018385. doi:
10.3389/fpubh.2022.1018385.  eCollection 2022.

Global Burden of cardiomyopathy and myocarditis in the older adults from 1990 to 
2019.

Zhang K(1)(2), Cheng X(1)(2), Qu N(1)(2)(3), Song H(1)(2), Luo Y(1)(2), Ye 
T(1)(2), Xu Q(1)(2), Tian H(1)(2), Kan C(1)(2), Hou N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Affiliated Hospital of Weifang 
Medical University, Weifang, China.
(2)Clinical Research Center, Affiliated Hospital of Weifang Medical University, 
Weifang, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, Affiliated Hospital of Weifang Medical University, 
Weifang, China.

BACKGROUND: Cardiomyopathy and myocarditis (CM-MC) are common chronic diseases 
causing heart failure in older adults. We aimed to analyze the burden of CM-MC 
in older adults aged 60-89 years at the global, regional, and national levels in 
204 countries from 1990 to 2019.
METHODS: Detailed data on CM-MC from 1990 to 2019 were analyzed from the Global 
Burden of Diseases Study 2019, including incidence, mortality, 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) and the proportion of deaths caused by 
different risks factors. All results are presented as numbers, age-standardized 
rates per 100,000 person-years and estimated annual percentage change (EAPC) 
with an uncertainty interval of 95%.
RESULTS: Globally, there were 475,458 (339,942-638,363) incidence cases from 
CM-MC in 2019; with an age-standardized incidence rate (ASIR) of 16 (13-19.3) 
per 100,000 person-years. And there were 185,308 (154,610-200,448) deaths, with 
the age-standardized mortality rate (ASMR) being 4.4 (3.7-4.8). CM-MC resulted 
in 3,372,716 (2,931,247-3,693,622) DALYs, with an age-standardized DALYs rate 
(ASDR) of 114.8 (98.7-126.1). Estimated annual percentage change (EAPCs) for 
ARIS, ARMS, and ARDS has decreased. At the national level, the United States of 
America had the highest mortality [21,372 (18,924-24,241)] and 
disability-adjusted life years [407,712 (370,234-470,165)]. And China had the 
highest number of incident cases [122, 266 (85,925-166,095)]. Globally, high 
systolic blood pressure and alcohol consumption were the top two risk factors 
for the proportion of CM-MC deaths.
CONCLUSION: CM-MC is still an important cause of early death and chronic 
disability in older adults. Based on this study, public health agencies should 
seek more effective methods to prevent and treat CM-MC.

Copyright © 2022 Zhang, Cheng, Qu, Song, Luo, Ye, Xu, Tian, Kan and Hou.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.1018385
PMCID: PMC9545016
PMID: 36211688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


260. Front Psychol. 2022 Sep 21;13:984931. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.984931. 
eCollection 2022.

Drivers of post-adoption of e-wallet among academics in Palestine: An extension 
of the expectation confirmation model.

Daragmeh A(1), Saleem A(1), Bárczi J(1), Sági J(2).

Author information:
(1)Doctoral School of Economics and Regional Studies, Hungarian University of 
Agriculture and Life Sciences, Gödöllő, Hungary.
(2)Faculty of Finance and Accountancy, Budapest Business School, Budapest, 
Hungary.

E-wallet is one of the latest innovations in the field of payments. However, 
despite numerous studies on the adoption of e-finance systems, the post-adoption 
phase is largely neglected. In this paper, we use the extended Expectation 
Confirmation Model (ECM) to address this gap by focusing on the study of 
consumers' continuous intentions regarding the use of an e-wallet service. We 
conducted an electronic questionnaire-based survey among 503 e-wallet users in 
Palestine. Using structural equation modeling to analyze the conceptual model of 
the study, our results confirm that satisfaction, trust, and perceived 
usefulness have a significant impact on consumers' continuous intention 
regarding e-wallet. In addition, the study found that perceived security has an 
insignificant impact on consumer satisfaction. The study has several 
implications: E-wallet providers should improve their services in terms of 
performance, privacy, and security to ensure customer loyalty in this 
competitive industry.

Copyright © 2022 Daragmeh, Saleem, Bárczi and Sági.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.984931
PMCID: PMC9533084
PMID: 36211879

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


261. J Healthc Eng. 2022 Sep 28;2022:4336622. doi: 10.1155/2022/4336622.
eCollection  2022.

Investigation on the Influencing Factors Related to Quality of Life of Adult 
Epilepsy Patients in Wenzhou, China, Based on Structural Equation Model.

Sun H(1), Chen L(1), Chen K(1), Li B(1), Wu Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Wenzhou Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Wenzhou 325000, China.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study is to investigate the influencing factors of 
quality of life in adult patients with epilepsy in Wenzhou in China.
METHODS: A total of 190 patients who visited our hospital from July 2019 to 
February 2021 were included in the study. Demographic data and disease status 
were collected. Moreover, QOLIE-31, PSQI, ESS, HAMD-17, and GAD-7 were used in 
the questionnaire survey. Structural equation model fitting was used to analyze 
the influencing factors of quality of life in adult patients with epilepsy.
RESULTS: The scores of the dimension of onset worry in men were greater than 
those of women (P = 0.049), and the scores of the dimension of life satisfaction 
were lower than women (P = 0.047). The scores of cognitive function decreased 
with age (P = 0.047). The scores of quality of life of unemployed and drinking 
patients significantly decreased (P < 0.05). The score of quality of life 
positively correlated with good economic status and family relations (P < 0.05). 
The score of emotional health increased first and then decreased with the course 
of the disease. With the decrease in seizure frequency and the extension of 
months without a seizure, the score of quality of life gradually increased. 
Furthermore, the structural equation model showed that health status was 
directly correlated to the quality of life of patients with epilepsy.
CONCLUSION: Male, unemployment, drinking, older age, and disease are negatively 
related to the quality of life in patients with epilepsy. However, good economic 
status, good family relations, and good colleague relationships are positively 
related to the quality of life.

Copyright © 2022 Huijing Sun et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2022/4336622
PMCID: PMC9534719
PMID: 36212244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


262. Front Plant Sci. 2022 Sep 23;13:1018029. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2022.1018029. 
eCollection 2022.

In-depth analysis of genomes and functional genomics of orchid using 
cutting-edge high-throughput sequencing.

Song C(1), Wang Y(1), Manzoor MA(2), Mao D(3), Wei P(1), Cao Y(4), Zhu F(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Biological and Pharmaceutical Engineering, West Anhui University, 
Lu'an, China.
(2)School of Life Science, Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei, China.
(3)Albrecht Daniel Thaer Institute for Agricultural and Horticultural Sciences, 
Humboldt University of Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(4)Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) Key Laboratory of Plant Germplasm 
Enhancement and Specialty Agriculture, Wuhan Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Wuhan, China.

High-throughput sequencing technology has been facilitated the development of 
new methodologies and approaches for studying the origin and evolution of plant 
genomes and subgenomes, population domestication, and functional genomics. 
Orchids have tens of thousands of members in nature. Many of them have promising 
application potential in the extension and conservation of the ecological chain, 
the horticultural use of ornamental blossoms, and the utilization of botanical 
medicines. However, a large-scale gene knockout mutant library and a 
sophisticated genetic transformation system are still lacking in the improvement 
of orchid germplasm resources. New gene editing tools, such as the favored 
CRISPR-Cas9 or some base editors, have not yet been widely applied in orchids. 
In addition to a large variety of orchid cultivars, the high-precision, 
high-throughput genome sequencing technology is also required for the mining of 
trait-related functional genes. Nowadays, the focus of orchid genomics research 
has been directed to the origin and classification of species, genome evolution 
and deletion, gene duplication and chromosomal polyploidy, and flower 
morphogenesis-related regulation. Here, the progressing achieved in orchid 
molecular biology and genomics over the past few decades have been discussed, 
including the evolution of genome size and polyploidization. The frequent 
incorporation of LTR retrotransposons play important role in the expansion and 
structural variation of the orchid genome. The large-scale gene duplication 
event of the nuclear genome generated plenty of recently tandem duplicated 
genes, which drove the evolution and functional divergency of new genes. The 
evolution and loss of the plastid genome, which mostly affected genes related to 
photosynthesis and autotrophy, demonstrated that orchids have experienced more 
separate transitions to heterotrophy than any other terrestrial plant. Moreover, 
large-scale resequencing provide useful SNP markers for constructing genetic 
maps, which will facilitate the breeding of novel orchid varieties. The 
significance of high-throughput sequencing and gene editing technologies in the 
identification and molecular breeding of the trait-related genes in orchids 
provides us with a representative trait-improving gene as well as some 
mechanisms worthy of further investigation. In addition, gene editing has 
promise for the improvement of orchid genetic transformation and the 
investigation of gene function. This knowledge may provide a scientific 
reference and theoretical basis for orchid genome studies.

Copyright © 2022 Song, Wang, Manzoor, Mao, Wei, Cao and Zhu.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2022.1018029
PMCID: PMC9539832
PMID: 36212315

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


263. Front Aging. 2022 Sep 21;3:1014675. doi: 10.3389/fragi.2022.1014675.
eCollection  2022.

The intersection between toxicology and aging research: A toxic aging coin 
perspective.

Wise JP Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)NeuroWise Laboratory of Environmental Neurotoxicology, Pediatrics Research 
Institute, Department of Pediatrics, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY, 
United States.

We are imminently faced with the challenges of an increasingly aging population 
and longer lifespans due to improved health care. Concomitantly, we are faced 
with ubiquitous environmental pollution linked with various health effects and 
age-related diseases which contribute to increased morbidity with age. Geriatric 
populations are rarely considered in the development of environmental 
regulations or in toxicology research. Today, life expectancy is often into 
one's 80s or beyond, which means multiple decades living as a geriatric 
individual. Hence, adverse health effects and late-onset diseases might be due 
to environmental exposures as a geriatric, and we currently have no way of 
knowing. Considering aging from a different perspective, the term "gerontogen" 
was coined in 1987 to describe chemicals that accelerate biological aging but 
has largely been left out of toxicology research. Thus, we are challenged with a 
two-faced problem that we can describe as a "toxic aging coin"; on one side we 
consider how age affects the toxic outcome of chemicals, whereas on the other 
side we consider how chemicals accelerate aging (i.e. how chemicals act as 
gerontogens). Conveniently, both sides of this coin can be tackled with a single 
animal study that considers multiple age groups and assesses basic toxicology of 
the chemical(s) tested and aging-focused endpoints. Here, I introduce the 
concept of this toxic aging coin and some key considerations for how it applies 
to toxicology research. My discussion of this concept will focus on the brain, 
my area of expertise, but could be translated to any organ system.

Copyright © 2022 Wise Jr.

DOI: 10.3389/fragi.2022.1014675
PMCID: PMC9532842
PMID: 36213344

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


264. Compr Physiol. 2022 Oct 10;12(4):4119-4132. doi: 10.1002/cphy.c220005.

Adipose Tissue Plasticity in Aging.

Wang G(1), Song A(1), Bae M(1), Wang QA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular & Cellular Endocrinology, Arthur Riggs Diabetes and 
Metabolism Research Institute, City of Hope Medical Center, Duarte, California, 
USA.
(2)Comprehensive Cancer Center, Beckman Research Institute, City of Hope Medical 
Center, Duarte, California, USA.

As a dynamic endocrine organ, white adipose tissue (WAT) stores lipids and plays 
a critical role in maintaining whole-body energy homeostasis and insulin 
sensitivity. A large group of the population over 65 years old suffer from 
increased WAT mass, especially in the visceral location. Visceral adiposity 
accelerates aging through promoting age-associated chronic conditions, 
significantly shortening life expectancy. Unlike WAT, brown adipose tissue (BAT) 
functions as an effective energy sink that burns and disposes of excess lipids 
and glucose upon activation of thermogenesis. Unfortunately, the thermogenic 
activity of BAT declines during aging. New appreciation of cellular and 
functional remodeling of WAT and BAT during aging has emerged in recent years. 
Efforts are underway to explore the potential underlying mechanisms behind these 
age-associated alterations in WAT and BAT and the impact of these alterations on 
whole-body metabolism. Lastly, it is intriguing to translate our knowledge 
obtained from animal models to the clinic to prevent and treat age-associated 
metabolic disorders. © 2022 American Physiological Society. Compr Physiol 12: 
4119-4132, 2022.

Copyright © 2022 American Physiological Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1002/cphy.c220005
PMID: 36214190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Int J Health Serv. 2022 Oct 9:207314221129052. doi:
10.1177/00207314221129052.  Online ahead of print.

Factors Impacting Life Expectancy in Bahrain: Evidence from 1971 to 2020 Data.

Wirayuda AAB(1), Al-Mahrezi A(1), Chan MF(1).

Author information:
(1)108707Department of Family Medicine and Public Health, 37611Sultan Qaboos 
University, Muscat, Oman.

The factors impacting life expectancy (LE) are important to a country as LE 
reflects the essential quality of its population. Previous studies showed that 
other than economic factors, health status and resources (HSR) and 
sociodemographic (SD) also affect LE. This area has not been previously studied 
in Bahrain, especially in the past five decades. Hence, this study aims to 
develop an explanatory model for HSR, macroeconomic (ME), and SD factors on LE 
in Bahrain. The research was a retrospective, time-series design that collected 
the annual published data on SD, ME, HSR, and LE in Bahrain's population from 
1971 to 2020. The data were analyzed using the partial least squares-structural 
equation modeling (PLS-SEM) method. The result shows that ME (0.463, P < .001) 
and HSR (0.595, P < .001) have significant direct effects on LE. ME has an 
indirect effect (0.488, P < .001) on LE via SD and HSR, and SD has an indirect 
effect (0.496, P < .001) on LE through HSR. During the socioeconomic downturn, 
the health resources provision should not be reduced as it directly affects LE. 
An integrated policy addressing socioeconomic and health-related factors could 
protect the future of Bahrain's population health outcomes.

DOI: 10.1177/00207314221129052
PMID: 36214193


266. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2022 Oct 10;10(10):CD013850. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD013850.pub2.

Collective leadership to improve professional practice, healthcare outcomes and 
staff well-being.

Silva JAM(1), Mininel VA(1), Fernandes Agreli H(2), Peduzzi M(2), Harrison R(3), 
Xyrichis A(4).

Author information:
(1)Nursing Department, Federal University of São Carlos, São Carlos, SP, Brazil.
(2)Professional Orientation Department, University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, 
Brazil.
(3)School of Population Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
Australia.
(4)Florence Nightingale Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery & Palliative Care, King's 
College London, London, UK.

Update of
    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD013850.

BACKGROUND: Collective leadership is strongly advocated by international 
stakeholders as a key approach for health service delivery, as a response to 
increasingly complex forms of organisation defined by rapid changes in health 
technology, professionalisation and growing specialisation. Inadequate 
leadership weakens health systems and can contribute to adverse events, 
including refusal to prioritise and implement safety recommendations 
consistently, and resistance to addressing staff burnout. Globally, increases in 
life expectancy and the number of people living with multiple long-term 
conditions contribute to greater complexity of healthcare systems. Such a 
complex environment requires the contribution and leadership of multiple 
professionals sharing viewpoints and knowledge.  OBJECTIVES: To assess the 
effects of collective leadership for healthcare providers on professional 
practice, healthcare outcomes and staff well-being, when compared with usual 
centralised leadership approaches.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, five other databases and 
two trials registers on 5 January 2021. We also searched grey literature, 
checked references for additional citations and contacted study authors to 
identify additional studies. We did not apply any limits on language.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Two groups of two authors independently reviewed, screened 
and selected studies for inclusion; the principal author was part of both groups 
to ensure consistency. We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that 
compared collective leadership interventions with usual centralised leadership 
or no intervention.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Three groups of two authors independently 
extracted data from the included studies and evaluated study quality; the 
principal author took part in all groups. We followed standard methodological 
procedures expected by Cochrane and the Effective Practice and Organisation of 
Care (EPOC) Group. We used the GRADE approach to assess the certainty of the 
evidence.
MAIN RESULTS: We identified three randomised trials for inclusion in our 
synthesis. All studies were conducted in acute care inpatient settings; the 
country settings were Canada, Iran and the USA. A total of 955 participants were 
included across all the studies. There was considerable variation in 
participants, interventions and measures for quantifying outcomes. We were only 
able to complete a meta-analysis for one outcome (leadership) and completed a 
narrative synthesis for other outcomes. We judged all studies as having an 
unclear risk of bias overall. Collective leadership interventions probably 
improve leadership (3 RCTs, 955 participants). Collective leadership may improve 
team performance (1 RCT, 164 participants). We are uncertain about the effect of 
collective leadership on clinical performance (1 RCT, 60 participants). We are 
uncertain about the intervention effect on healthcare outcomes, including health 
status (inpatient mortality) (1 RCT, 60 participants). Collective leadership may 
slightly improve staff well-being by reducing work-related stress (1 RCT, 164 
participants). We identified no direct evidence concerning burnout and 
psychological symptoms. We are uncertain of the intervention effects on 
unintended consequences, specifically on staff absence (1 RCT, 60 
participants).  AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Collective leadership involves multiple 
professionals sharing viewpoints and knowledge with the potential to influence 
positively the quality of care and staff well-being. Our confidence in the 
effects of collective leadership interventions on professional practice, 
healthcare outcomes and staff well-being is moderate in leadership outcomes, low 
in team performance and work-related stress, and very low for clinical 
performance, inpatient mortality and staff absence outcomes. The evidence was of 
moderate, low and very low certainty due to risk of bias and imprecision, 
meaning future evidence may change our interpretation of the results. There is a 
need for more high-quality studies in this area, with consistent reporting of 
leadership, team performance, clinical performance, health status and staff 
well-being outcomes.

Copyright © 2022 The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD013850.pub2
PMCID: PMC9549469
PMID: 36214207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Jaqueline Alcantara Marcelino Silva: none known. 
Heloise Fernandes Agreli: none known. Reema Harrison:none known. Marina Peduzzi: 
none know. Vivian Aline Mininel: none known. Andreas Xyrichis: none known.


267. JAMA Intern Med. 2022 Nov 1;182(11):1229-1231. doi: 
10.1001/jamainternmed.2022.4316.

Physician Attitudes About Using Life Expectancy to Inform Cancer Screening 
Cessation in Older Adults-Results From a National Survey.

Schoenborn NL(1), Boyd CM(1), Pollack CE(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology, Department of Medicine, Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.
(2)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins University 
Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland.

Plain Language Summary: This survey study assessed physicians’ attitudes about 
the use of life expectancy as a guide in the decision to stop cancer screening 
in older adults.

DOI: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2022.4316
PMCID: PMC9552047
PMID: 36215046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Schoenborn 
reported receiving grants from the National Institute on Aging. Dr Boyd reported 
receiving grants from the National Institute on Aging during the conduct of the 
study, royalties from UpToDate, and honorarium from DynaMed outside the 
submitted work. Dr Pollack reported receiving grants from the National 
Institutes of Health during the conduct of the study, owning stock in Gilead 
Pharmaceuticals, and working part time as an adviser at the US Department of 
Housing and Urban Development on issues related to housing and health.


268. Int J Psychiatry Clin Pract. 2023 Jun;27(2):186-195. doi: 
10.1080/13651501.2022.2129069. Epub 2022 Oct 10.

Mental fatigue in individuals with psychiatric disorders: a scoping review.

Mozuraityte K(1), Stanyte A(1), Fineberg NA(2)(3)(4), Serretti A(5), 
Gecaite-Stonciene J(1), Burkauskas J(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Behavioral Medicine, Neuroscience Institute, Lithuanian 
University of Health Sciences, Palanga, Lithuania.
(2)University of Hertfordshire, Hatfield, UK.
(3)Hertfordshire Partnership University NHS Foundation Trust, Hatfield, UK.
(4)University of Cambridge Clinical Medical School, Cambridge, UK.
(5)Department of Biomedical and NeuroMotor Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to complete a scoping review of the 
published literature describing the relationship between mental fatigue and 
various psychiatric disorders, to better understand its frequency and clinical 
impact, and to provide recommendations for future clinical research.
METHODS: A scoping review using PubMed/MEDLINE, Cochrane and PsychArticles 
databases was conducted using the keywords 'mental fatigue', 'mental tiredness' 
or 'mental exhaustion', and completed in accordance with the Preferred Reporting 
Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Protocols Extension for Scoping 
Reviews 2018 checklist.
RESULTS: We extracted 10 studies fulfilling our inclusion criteria from a total 
of 2937 publications. Mental fatigue was studied within mood disorders, anxiety 
disorders, obsessive compulsive disorder and obsessive-compulsive personality 
disorder. A commonly used tool to measure mental fatigue in these samples was 
the Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory-20. Specific cognitive factors (unhelpful 
beliefs about sleep, symptom-focussed rumination) and personality risk factors 
(harm avoidance, self-directedness, cooperativeness, persistence) were relevant 
to predicting mental fatigue symptoms and rates of mental fatigue may vary with 
gender and diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: Research into mental fatigue in adult psychiatric sample was limited 
to a few psychiatric disorders and requires further investigation.Key pointsA 
commonly used tool to measure mental fatigue was the Multidimensional Fatigue 
Inventory-20. However, more research into the validity and reliability for 
illness specific instruments to measure mental fatigue in psychiatric population 
is required.Reduction of mental fatigue was associated with improvement on 
quality of life.Specific cognitive factors (unhelpful beliefs about sleep, 
symptom-focussed rumination) and personality risk factors (harm avoidance, 
self-directedness, cooperativeness, persistence) were relevant to predicting 
mental fatigue symptoms and rates of mental fatigue may vary with 
gender.Reviewed articles indicated that mental fatigue presence was associated 
with lower odds of OCD. In addition, the results suggested that mental fatigue 
symptoms were more common in individuals with OCPD rather than OCD.Research into 
mental fatigue in adult psychiatric sample was limited to a few psychiatric 
disorders and requires further investigation to prevent potential misattribution 
as mental fatigue symptoms overlap between different psychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1080/13651501.2022.2129069
PMID: 36215092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. PLoS One. 2022 Oct 10;17(10):e0275093. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0275093. 
eCollection 2022.

Subjective health awareness and sensory ability of taste and olfaction: A case 
study of a health promotion class for older people.

Inoue S(1), Watanabe J(2), Wada Y(3).

Author information:
(1)BKC Research Organization of Social Sciences, Ritsumeikan University, 
Kusatsu, Shiga, Japan.
(2)NTT Communication Science Laboratories, Nippon Telegraph, and Telephone 
Corporation, Atsugi, Kanagawa, Japan.
(3)College of Gastronomy Management, Ritsumeikan University, Kusatsu, Shiga, 
Japan.

The quality of the dietary habits of older adults is important for increasing 
healthy life expectancy. As with other physical senses, the senses of taste and 
olfaction change with age. In contrast to physical sensations that can be 
visibly compared with those of other people, taste and olfaction are personal 
sensations, making it challenging to infer associated changes. This study 
investigated the characteristics of taste and olfaction in healthy older adults 
and compared them with those of young adults. In the taste assessment, threshold 
values were measured using the whole-mouth method with a diagnostic assay kit 
(Tastedisc). The olfactory assessment measured the overall identification 
ability using a card-type olfactory identification test kit (Open Essence). 
Additionally, participants' subjective health awareness was measured using a 
visual analog scale. The taste and olfactory assessments results showed that the 
older group had lower overall sensory sensitivity than the young group, and that 
there was no correlation between taste and olfactory sensitivity in the older 
group, while a trend was observed in the young group. Moreover, there was no 
significant difference between the two groups regarding subjective health 
awareness, indicating that participants in our research considered themselves 
healthy regardless of age. This suggests that the subjective health awareness of 
older people in the health promotion class is somehow independent from their 
sensory ability.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0275093
PMCID: PMC9550035
PMID: 36215235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J. W. is an employee of the Nippon Telegraph and 
Telephone Corporation Communication Science Laboratories, a basic science 
research section of the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation. Authors S. 
I. and Y. W. received research support from the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone 
Corporation. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing 
data and materials. There are no patents, products in development, or marketed 
products to declare.


270. J Electromyogr Kinesiol. 2022 Dec;67:102713. doi:
10.1016/j.jelekin.2022.102713.  Epub 2022 Oct 3.

Differences between vastus medialis and lateralis excitation onsets are 
dependent on the relative distance of surface electrodes placement from the 
innervation zone location.

de Souza LML(1), Cabral HV(2), de Oliveira LF(3), Vieira TM(4).

Author information:
(1)Programa de Engenharia Biomédica (COPPE), Universidade Federal do Rio de 
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil. Electronic address: leomendes@peb.ufrj.br.
(2)Centre of Precision Rehabilitation for Spinal Pain (CPR Spine), School of 
Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Sciences, College of Life and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK; Department of Clinical and 
Experimental Sciences, Università degli Studi di Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(3)Programa de Engenharia Biomédica (COPPE), Universidade Federal do Rio de 
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(4)Laboratorio di Ingegneria del Sistema Neuromuscolare (LISiN), Politecnico di 
Torino, Torino, TO, Italy; PolitoBIOMed Lab, Politecnico di Torino, Torino, 
Italy.

Conflictual results between the onset of vastus medialis (VM) and vastus 
lateralis (VL) excitation may arise from methodological aspects related to the 
detection of surface electromyograms. In this study we used an array of surface 
electrodes to assess the effect of detection site, relative to the muscle 
innervation zone, on the difference between VM and VL excitation onsets. Ten 
healthy males performed moderate isometric knee extension at 40 % of their 
maximal voluntary isometric contraction. After the actual VM-VL onset was 
defined (estimated when action potentials were generated at the neuromuscular 
junctions of both muscles), we calculated the largest bias that the detection 
site may introduce in the VM-VL onset estimation. We also assessed whether the 
location often considered for positioning bipolar electrodes on each muscle 
leads to VM-VL onset estimations comparable to the actual VM-VL onset. Our main 
results revealed that a maximum absolute bias of 20.48 ms may be introduced in 
VM-VL onset estimations due to the electrodes' detection site. In addition, mean 
differences of ∼ 12 ms in VM-VL onset estimations were attributable to largest 
possible discrepancies in the paired position of channels with respect to the 
innervation zone for VL and VM. When considering the classical location for 
positioning the bipolar electrodes over these muscles, differences error was 
subtle (∼3.4 ms) when compared with the actual VM-VL onset. Nonetheless, when 
accounting for the effect of relative differences in electrode position between 
muscles is not possible, our results suggest that a systematic absolute error 
of ∼ 12 ms should be considered in future studies regarding VM-VL onset 
estimations, suggesting that onset differences lower than that might not be 
clinically relevant.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jelekin.2022.102713
PMID: 36215780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


271. Clin Nutr. 2022 Nov;41(11):2446-2454. doi: 10.1016/j.clnu.2022.09.010. Epub
2022  Sep 23.

Standardised survival and excess Life Years Lost in patients with type 3 
intestinal failure.

Kopczynska M(1), Hvas CL(2), Jepsen P(2), Teubner A(3), Abraham A(3), Burden 
ST(4), Taylor M(3), Carlson G(3), Lal S(4).

Author information:
(1)Intestinal Failure Unit, Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Salford, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: maya.kopczynska@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Hepatology and Gastroenterology, Aarhus University Hospital, 
Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)Intestinal Failure Unit, Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Salford, United 
Kingdom.
(4)Intestinal Failure Unit, Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Salford, United 
Kingdom; University of Manchester, Manchester, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Long term outcomes have been reported in home parenteral 
nutrition (HPN)-dependent patients with type 3 intestinal failure (IF), but 
there are limited survival data standardised to the general population that 
would help provide a meaningful prognosis for patients and clinicians. The 
primary aim of this study was therefore to investigate the survival of 
HPN-dependent patients and to evaluate the specific impact of type 3 IF on their 
life expectancy standardised to that of the general population.
METHODS: This was a cohort study of adult patients initiated on HPN between 1978 
and 2018 at a national UK IF reference centre and followed up until death or 
censoring date of 31st December 2020. The standardised mortality ratio (SMR) was 
calculated as observed deaths divided by expected deaths using UK Office for 
National Statistics database. Excess Life Years Lost (LYL) were calculated 
separately for each sex as the differences in average life expectancy between 
patients with type 3 IF and the general population. Survival data were evaluated 
using cox regression models adjusting for confounding.
RESULTS: In total, 1046 patients were identified, with a total observation time 
of 7344.1 patient-years. Patients with malignancy (n = 206) were excluded from 
the survival analysis. Of the remaining 840 patients, 398 were alive by the end 
of follow-up. The probability of survival was 91.8% at 1 year, 69.3% at 5 years, 
54.3% at 10 years, 29.8% at 20 years and 16.7% at 30 years. Patients who did not 
achieve nutritional autonomy had an increased likelihood of death compared to 
patients who ceased HPN. In total, 40 (9.0%) deaths were HPN or IF-related, 
while underlying disease leading to IF accounted for 98 (22.2%) deaths. There 
were 270 (61.1%) deaths not related to IF, with the majority of these patients 
dying from infections unrelated to HPN. Overall mortality rates were higher 
among patients with a diagnosis of type 3 IF compared with the general UK 
population with a SMR of 7.48 (95% CI 6.80 to 8.21) and an excess mortality rate 
of 54.0 per 1000 person-years. All mechanisms of IF were associated with excess 
mortality, with SMR ranging from 6.82 (95% CI 5.98 to 7.72) for short bowel 
syndrome to 15.51 (95% CI 11.73 to 20.03) for dysmotility. On average, the 
excess LYL was 17.45 years for males and 17.39 years for females compared with 
the general population of the same age.
CONCLUSION: This the largest single-centre series reporting survival outcomes in 
patients with type 3 IF over more than a four-decade period and the first to 
report LYL in this patient cohort. Type 3 IF was associated with more than 
seven-fold higher mortality rates than for the general UK population and shorter 
life expectancies of more than 17 years. Survival, however, was better in those 
able to achieve nutritional autonomy. Since the majority of deaths were due to 
non-HPN or non-IF causes, there is clearly a need now to further explore these 
causes of death in order to improve our understanding of excessive mortality in 
type 3 IF and develop ways to prevent it.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and 
Metabolism. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clnu.2022.09.010
PMID: 36215864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest No conflict of interest to 
declare.


272. J Cardiothorac Vasc Anesth. 2022 Dec;36(12):4364-4369. doi: 
10.1053/j.jvca.2022.09.076. Epub 2022 Sep 11.

Exploring Noncardiac Surgical Needs From Infancy to Adulthood in Patients With 
Congenital Heart Disease.

Hamilton ARL(1), Odegard KC(2), Yuki K(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiac Anesthesia, Department of Anesthesiology, Critical Care 
and Pain Medicine, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA; Department of 
Anaesthesia, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of Cell and 
Molecular Biology, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: 
rebecca.hamilton@ki.se.
(2)Division of Cardiac Anesthesia, Department of Anesthesiology, Critical Care 
and Pain Medicine, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA; Department of 
Anaesthesia, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.

OBJECTIVES: As life expectancy for patients born with congenital heart disease 
(CHD) continues to rise, these patients will present increasingly for noncardiac 
surgery during childhood and adolescence. This study aimed to map the lifespan 
of noncardiac surgical needs among patients with CHD and explore how these needs 
may change over time.
DESIGN: All patients with CHD presenting for noncardiac surgery between 2008 and 
2014 were selected for review.
SETTING: The study was conducted at a single urban academic tertiary pediatric 
hospital.
PARTICIPANTS: All patients with CHD presenting for noncardiac surgery during the 
study period were included and grouped by cardiac diagnosis.
INTERVENTIONS: Descriptive analysis included patient demographics, CHD 
diagnosis, procedures performed, and clinical data, including baseline 
saturation and underlying cardiac function.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: A total of 3,011 noncardiac surgical procedures 
were performed on patients with CHD during the study period. The most common CHD 
diagnoses were patent ductus arteriosus (27.6%), ventricular septal defects 
(24.7%), and patent foramen ovale (24.3%). The median age was 4 years, 87% of 
all the patients were ≤10 years, and 41% had associated syndromes. Of the 
patients, 76% underwent a preoperative echocardiogram, and 10% had depressed 
cardiac function at the time of surgery. The most common procedures performed 
were ear, nose, and throat (20%), general surgery (14%), and radiology (11%). 
Intraoperative events were reported in 488 out of 3,010 encounters (16.2%), with 
the highest rates reported in patients with single-ventricle physiology (55/179; 
30.7%).
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggested a greater burden of noncardiac surgery in 
lower age groups, with ear, nose, and throat and general surgery most common in 
young children and orthopedic and dental procedures increasing in adolescence.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.jvca.2022.09.076
PMID: 36216687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Clin Colorectal Cancer. 2022 Dec;21(4):277-284. doi:
10.1016/j.clcc.2022.09.003.  Epub 2022 Sep 17.

Value-Based Analysis of Therapies in Refractory Metastatic Colorectal Cancer in 
US.

Cho SK(1), Bekaii-Saab T(2), Kavati A(3), Babajanyan S(3), Hocum B(3), Barzi 
A(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Houston College of Pharmacy, Houston, TX. Electronic address: 
scho23@central.uh.edu.
(2)Mayo Clinic Cancer Center, Phoenix, AZ.
(3)Bayer Healthcare Pharmaceuticals Inc., Whippany, NJ.
(4)City of Hope Comprehensive Care Center, Duarte, CA.

BACKGROUND: Recent phase 2 trials have provided data supporting regorafenib dose 
optimization (ReDO) and trifluridine/tipiracil (TAS-102) with bevacizumab 
(TAS-BEV) as treatment options in refractory metastatic colorectal cancer 
(mCRC). Historically, regorafenib standard dose (RSD) and TAS-102 have been 
utilized as third-line options in mCRC. Given the incorporation of ReDO and 
TAS-BEV as treatment options, we sought to evaluate relative cost-effectiveness 
of ReDO vs. RSD, TAS-102, and TAS-BEV for mCRC from a payer perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to estimate total costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for ReDO, RSD, TAS-102, and TAS-BEV. 
Clinical parameters were obtained from phase 2 and 3 trials for comparators. 
Health state utility values were from the RSD phase 3 clinical trial. 
Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were utilized to compare 
treatments. Model robustness was checked with one-way and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In the base case, ReDO was dominant over TAS-BEV (ie provided a higher 
QALY at a lower cost). ReDO produced an ICER of $104,308 per QALY relative to 
RSD and $37,966 relative to TAS-102. In one-way sensitivity analyses, monthly 
drug cost of TAS-BEV was the most influential parameter determining relative 
cost-effectiveness between TAS-BEV and ReDO. When TAS-102 and RSD were 
independently compared to ReDO, the most influential parameters were related to 
duration of OS and PFS and costs of managing AEs.
CONCLUSIONS: The optimum dosing strategy for regorafenib has improved its 
benefit-to-toxicity ratio and relative cost-effectiveness compared to RSD, 
TAS-102, and TAS-BEV.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clcc.2022.09.003
PMID: 36216759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Nat Med. 2022 Oct;28(10):2019-2026. doi: 10.1038/s41591-022-01990-1. Epub
2022  Oct 10.

The Global Burden of Disease Study at 30 years.

Murray CJL(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA. cjlm@uw.edu.
(2)Department of Health Metrics Sciences, School of Medicine, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. cjlm@uw.edu.

The Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD) began 30 years ago with the goal of 
providing timely, valid and relevant assessments of critical health outcomes. 
Over this period, the GBD has become progressively more granular. The latest 
iteration provides assessments of thousands of outcomes for diseases, injuries 
and risk factors in more than 200 countries and territories and at the 
subnational level in more than 20 countries. The GBD is now produced by an 
active collaboration of over 8,000 scientists and analysts from more than 150 
countries. With each GBD iteration, the data, data processing and methods used 
for data synthesis have evolved, with the goal of enhancing transparency and 
comparability of measurements and communicating various sources of uncertainty. 
The GBD has many limitations, but it remains a dynamic, iterative and rigorous 
attempt to provide meaningful health measurement to a wide range of 
stakeholders.

© 2022. Springer Nature America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1038/s41591-022-01990-1
PMID: 36216939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Pharmacoeconomics. 2022 Dec;40(Suppl 2):193-203. doi: 
10.1007/s40273-022-01192-0. Epub 2022 Oct 10.

A Value Set for the EQ-5D-Y-3L in the Netherlands.

Roudijk B(1), Sajjad A(2), Essers B(3), Lipman S(2), Stalmeier P(4), Finch 
AP(5).

Author information:
(1)EuroQol Research Foundation, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. roudijk@euroqol.org.
(2)Erasmus School of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(4)Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(5)EuroQol Research Foundation, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: There is increasing interest in preference-accompanied 
measures of health for paediatric populations. The child-friendly EQ-5D version, 
EQ-5D-Y-3L, is one such instrument, but the lack of a Dutch value set prevents 
its use in economic evaluations of healthcare interventions in the Netherlands. 
This study aims at covering this gap by collecting preferences using a 
standardised protocol for deriving EQ-5D-Y-3L value sets.
METHODS: Composite time trade-off data were collected using videoconferencing 
interviews, with each respondent completing ten composite time trade-off tasks. 
Discrete choice experiment data were collected using an online survey, with 
respondents each completing 15 paired comparisons. Respondents completed these 
tasks considering what they prefer for a hypothetical 10-year-old child. 
Discrete choice experiment data were analysed using a ten-parameter mixed-logit 
model and anchored to the quality-adjusted life-year scale using the mean 
observed composite time trade-off values.
RESULTS: The study collected preferences for 197 respondents using composite 
time trade-off and for 959 respondents using a discrete choice experiment. The 
discrete choice experiment sample was representative for the Dutch population in 
terms of age and sex. The level 3 weight for pain/discomfort was the largest, 
followed by feeling worried, sad or unhappy, usual activities, mobility and 
self-care. Health state values ranged between -0.218 and 1.
CONCLUSIONS: This study generated a Dutch value set for the EQ-5D-Y-3L, which 
can be used for the computation of quality-adjusted life-years for economic 
evaluations of healthcare interventions in paediatric populations.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-022-01192-0
PMCID: PMC9549846
PMID: 36216977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Bram Roudijk, Stefan Lipman, Peep Stalmeier and 
Aureliano Paolo Finch reported receiving grants from the EuroQol Research 
Foundation during the conduct of the study. Bram Roudijk, Peep Stalmeier and 
Aureliano Paolo Finch are members of the EuroQol Group. Ayesha Sajjad and 
Brigitte Essers report no conflict of interest.


276. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2022 Oct 10;22(1):441. doi:
10.1186/s12872-022-02878-1.

A telemonitoring programme in patients with heart failure in France: a 
cost-utility analysis.

Caillon M(#)(1), Sabatier R(#)(2)(3)(4), Legallois D(2)(3), Courouve L(5), Donio 
V(5), Boudevin F(6), de Chalus T(6), Hauchard K(7), Belin A(2)(4), Milliez 
P(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Amgen, Boulogne-Billancourt, France. mcaillon@amgen.com.
(2)Service de Cardiologie et de Pathologie Vasculaire, CHU de Caen Normandie, 
Caen, France.
(3)Université de Caen-Normandie, Caen, France.
(4)APRIC (Association pour l'Amélioration de la Prise en charge de 
l'Insuffisance Cardiaque), Ouistreham, France.
(5)Cemka, Bourg-la-Reine, France.
(6)Amgen, Boulogne-Billancourt, France.
(7)Normand'e-santé, Caen, France.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Certain telemedicine programmes for heart failure (HF) have been 
shown to reduce all-cause mortality and heart failure-related hospitalisations, 
but their cost-effectiveness remains controversial. The SCAD programme is a 
home-based interactive telemonitoring service for HF, which is one of the 
largest and longest-running telemonitoring programmes for HF in France. The 
objective of this cost-utility analysis was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness 
of the SCAD programme with respect to standard hospital-based care in patients 
with HF.
METHODS: A Markov model simulating hospitalisations and mortality in patients 
with HF was constructed to estimate outcomes and costs. The model included six 
distinct health states (three 'not hospitalised' states, two 'hospitalisation 
for heart failure' states, both depending on the number of previous 
hospitalisations, and one death state). The model lifetime in the base case was 
10 years. Model inputs were based on published literature. Outputs (costs and 
QALYs) were compared between SCAD participants and standard care. Deterministic 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed to assess uncertainty in 
the input parameters of the model.
RESULTS: The number of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) was 3.75 in the 
standard care setting and 4.41 in the SCAD setting. This corresponds to a gain 
in QALYs provided by the SCAD programme of 0.65 over the 10 years lifetime of 
the model. The estimated total cost was €30,932 in the standard care setting and 
€35,177 in the SCAD setting, with an incremental cost of €4245. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for the SCAD programme over standard care was 
estimated at €4579/QALY. In the deterministic sensitivity analysis, the 
variables that had the most impact on the ICER were HF management costs. The 
likelihood of the SCAD programme being considered cost-effective was 90% at a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of €11,800.
CONCLUSIONS: Enrolment of patients into the SCAD programme is highly 
cost-effective. Extension of the programme to other hospitals and more patients 
would have a limited budget impact but provide important clinical benefits. This 
finding should also be taken into account in new public health policies aimed at 
encouraging a shift from inpatient to ambulatory care.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12872-022-02878-1
PMCID: PMC9549824
PMID: 36217130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: FB, MC and TdC are employees of Amgen SAS. VD 
and LC are employees of Cemka. RS, DL, KH, AB and PM have no conflict of 
interest to declare.


277. Homo. 2022 Nov 9;73(1):49-60. doi: 10.1127/homo/2022/1645.

Teeth macroabrasion for determination of dental age and diet in the Illyrian 
population from the Kopila necropolis on the Island of Korčula, Croatia.

Marić M(1), Radić D(2), Dumančić J(1), Vodanović M(1), Birimiša M(1), Radovčić 
D(3), Brkić H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dental Anthropology, School of Dental Medicine University of 
Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia.
(2)Vela Luka Cultural Center, Korčula island, Croatia.
(3)Croatian Natural History Museum, Zagreb, Croatia.

This paper presents the changes caused by macroabrasion of teeth on skeletal 
remains found in tomb No 4 in the west necropolis of the archeological site 
Kopila near Blato on the island of Korčula. The site archeologically dates back 
to the Late Iron Age, when the island was inhabited by the Illyrians. The aim of 
this study was to assess the dental age of the buried individuals at death and 
determine the type of their diet, which could give us a preliminary insight into 
the socio-economic standard of the inhabitants of the settlement. The analyzed 
sample is part of the collection of excavated skeletal remains kept in the Vela 
Luka Cultural Center on the island of Korčula. 284 permanent teeth, 19 fragments 
of the maxilla and 20 fragments of the mandible were found in the tomb, which 
were classified into 32 individuals and by sex. Teeth were analyzed by metric 
and non-metric methods of determining dental status in order to assess the 
dental age at the time of death and the diet of the inhabitants. The dental age 
of individuals was determined by the Lovejoy method and the degree of tooth wear 
by the Smith-Knight method. The analysis of the stable isotope 14C determined 
the exact time of death of the analyzed individuals. The tooth wear changes were 
very pronounced and present on 92.9% of teeth, equally on incisors and molars (p 
= 0.236). There is no significant gender difference (p > 0.05 for all teeth and 
jaw parts). There was no difference in the degree of tooth wear of the teeth of 
the mandible and maxilla (t = -0.266, p = 0.791), nor in the degree of tooth 
wear of the teeth of the maxilla right and left (t = -0.392, p = 0.702) or in 
the degree of tooth wear of the teeth of the mandible right and left (t = 
-0.889, p = 0.390). The average age of the analyzed population sample was 35.6 
(±3.1) years. They were buried between 360-40 BC. Tooth wear changes observed on 
the analyzed teeth indicate a diet rich in hard, weakly cariogenic food with 
particles that were probably of inorganic origin, which caused an increased wear 
