CONCLUSIONS: In patients with newly diagnosed chronic myeloid leukemia, imatinib 
regimens were cost effective, mostly owing to the availability of generics. 
Nilotinib and dasatinib were generally cost effective as second-line agents for 
patients who were resistant or intolerant to imatinib. Though progress has been 
made to better characterize the cost effectiveness of first-line and second-line 
chronic myeloid leukemia therapies, the paucity of published cost-effectiveness 
studies of third-line treatments increases the uncertainty associated with 
economic evaluations of later lines of therapy.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-022-01189-9
PMID: 36175789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Respir Res. 2022 Sep 29;23(1):268. doi: 10.1186/s12931-022-02187-3.

The burden of chronic respiratory disease and attributable risk factors in North 
Africa and Middle East: findings from global burden of disease study (GBD) 2019.

Fallahzadeh A(#)(1), Sharifnejad Tehrani Y(#)(1), Sheikhy A(1), Ghamari SH(1), 
Mohammadi E(1), Saeedi Moghaddam S(1), Esfahani Z(1)(2), Nasserinejad M(1)(3), 
Shobeiri P(1), Rashidi MM(1), Rezaei N(1), Heidari-Foroozan M(1), Rezaei 
N(4)(5), Larijani B(6), Farzadfar F(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Population Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, University of Social Welfare and Rehabilitation 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Faculty of Paramedical Sciences, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Population Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran. n.rezaei81@yahoo.com.
(5)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Clinical Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran. n.rezaei81@yahoo.com.
(6)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Clinical Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: North Africa and Middle East (NAME) has an increasing burden of 
chronic respiratory diseases (CRDs); however, a systematic understanding of the 
distribution and trends is not available. We aimed to report the trends of CRDs 
and attributable risk factors in this region between 1990 and 2019.
METHODS: Using data from the Global Burden of Diseases Study (GBD) 2019, cause 
specific mortality served as the basis for estimating incidence and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs). The burden attributable to risk factors 
was calculated by a comparative risk assessment and contribution of population 
ageing and growth was determined by decomposition analysis.
RESULTS: The number of deaths due to CRD in 2019 were 128,513 (110,781 to 
114,351). In 2019, the age-standardized incidence rate (ASIR) of CRDs was 1052.8 
(924.3 to 1209.4) per 100,000 population and had a 10.3% increase and the 
age-standardized death rate (ASDR) was 36.1 (30.9 to 40.3) with a 32.9% decrease 
compared to 1990. In 2019, United Arab Emirates had the highest ASIR (1412.7 
[1237.3 to 1622.2]) and Afghanistan had the highest ASDR (67.8 [52.0 to 81.3]). 
CRDs were responsible for 2.91% of total DALYs in 2019 (1.69% due to chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease [COPD] and 1.02% due to asthma). With regard to 
the components of DALYs, the age-standardized rate of years of life lost (YLL) 
had a - 39.0% (- 47.1 to - 30.3) decrease; while the age-standardized rate of 
years lived with disability (YLD) had a 13.4% (9.5 to 17.7) increase. Of total 
ASDRs of CRDs, 31.6% were attributable to smoking and 14.4% to ambient 
particulate matter pollution.
CONCLUSION: CRDs remain a leading cause of death and disability in NAME, with 
growth in absolute numbers. COPD and asthma were the most common CRDs and 
smoking was the leading risk factor especially in men. More attention is needed 
in order to reduce CRDs' burden through appropriate interventions and policies.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12931-022-02187-3
PMCID: PMC9521864
PMID: 36175873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


136. J Int AIDS Soc. 2022 Sep;25 Suppl 4(Suppl 4):e25983. doi:
10.1002/jia2.25983.

Neurocognitive performance and quality of life of older adults with HIV on 
antiretroviral treatment in Northern Thailand.

Aurpibul L(1), Sripan P(1), Tangmunkongvorakul A(1), Chaikan W(1), Sarachai 
S(1), Srithanaviboonchai K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Health Sciences, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai, 
Thailand.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai, Thailand.

INTRODUCTION: With virologic suppression and longer life expectancy, older 
adults with HIV (OAHIV) are at risk for neurocognitive impairment (NCI). This 
study investigated neurocognitive performance, quality of life (QOL) and the 
association between OAHIV determinants.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study was conducted in OAHIV aged ≥ 50 years on 
antiretroviral treatment at community hospitals in Northern Thailand between 
September and November 2020. The Montreal Cognitive Assessment Thai Version 
(MoCA-T) and the Thai-validated Medical Outcomes Study HIV (MOS-HIV) were used. 
NCI was defined as MoCA-T scores <25: 16-24 for amnestic mild cognitive 
impairment (aMCI) and <16 for dementia. For QOL, higher scores meant better QOL; 
a physical health summary T-score ≥50 was defined as good QOL.
RESULTS: Overall, 269 OAHIV were enrolled; 59% were female and 99% had virologic 
suppression. The current median age was 61.8 years (interquartile range [IQR] 
58.9-65.7). The median duration of antiretroviral treatment was 10.5 years (IQR 
8.5-13.5). The current median CD4 count (234 tested) was 484 cells/mm3 (IQR 
339-634), and 99% had plasma HIV RNA <40 copies/ml (229 tested). The median 
MoCA-T score was 20.0 (IQR 16.3-23.0). There were 234 OAHIV (87.3%) with NCI: 
182 (67.9%) with aMCI and 52 (19.4%) with dementia. A hundred and ninety (70.6%) 
had good QOL. Bivariate analysis revealed no correlation between MoCA-T scores 
and QOL. Multivariable linear regression analysis revealed that MoCA-T score was 
associated with older age (r = -0.144, p = 0.002), lower education (r = 0.629, p 
< 0.001), lower income (r = 0.797, p = 0.040) and shorter treatment duration (r 
= 0.189, p = 0.006).
CONCLUSIONS: The vast majority of OAHIV with virologic suppression had NCI. 
Approximately two-thirds had a mild impairment and one-fifth had dementia. 
Neurocognitive performance and QOL were not correlated. Addressing mild NCI 
would enable more targeted monitoring. Early intervention and support could 
minimize functional impairment with increased age.

© 2022 The Authors. Journal of the International AIDS Society published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of the International AIDS Society.

DOI: 10.1002/jia2.25983
PMCID: PMC9522635
PMID: 36176022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


137. J Int AIDS Soc. 2022 Sep;25 Suppl 4(Suppl 4):e25986. doi:
10.1002/jia2.25986.

Projection of age of individuals living with HIV and time since ART initiation 
in 2030: estimates for France.

Marty L(1), Diawara Y(1), Rachas A(2), Grabar S(3), Costagliola D(1), Supervie 
V(1).

Author information:
(1)Sorbonne Université, INSERM, Institut Pierre Louis d'Epidémiologie et de 
Santé Publique, Paris, France.
(2)Direction de la Stratégie, des Etudes et des Statistiques, CNAM, Paris, 
France.
(3)Sorbonne Université, INSERM, Institut Pierre Louis d'Epidémiologie et de 
Santé Publique, AP-HP, Hôpital St Antoine, Paris, France.

INTRODUCTION: Thanks to antiretroviral treatment (ART), people living with HIV 
(PLHIV) are living longer and ageing. However, ageing involves increased risks 
of co-morbidities, which also depend on when PLHIV individuals started ART. To 
tackle the HIV age-related upcoming challenges, knowledge of the current and 
future age structure of the HIV population is needed. Here, we forecast the 
demographic profile of the adult population living with diagnosed HIV (aPLdHIV) 
in France until 2030, accounting for the impact of the ART initiation period on 
mortality.
METHODS: We used national data from the French Hospital Database on HIV (ANRS 
CO4-FHDH) and a sample of the National Health Data System to, first, 
characterize the aPLdHIV in 2018 and estimate their mortality rates according to 
age, sex and ART initiation period. Second, we used national HIV surveillance 
data to define three scenarios for the numbers of newly diagnosed HIV cases over 
2019-2030: 30% decrease in HIV cases (S1), status quo situation (S2) and 
epidemic elimination (S3). We then combined these data using a matrix model, to 
project the age structure of aPLdHIV and time since ART initiation.
RESULTS: In 2018, there was an estimated 161,125 aPLdHIV (33% women), of which 
55% were aged 50 or older (50+), 22% aged 60+ and 8% aged 70+. In 2030, the 
aPLdHIV would grow to 195,246 for S1, 207,972 for S2 and 167,221 for S3. 
Whatever the scenario, in 2030, the estimated median time since ART initiation 
would increase and age distribution would shift towards older ages: with 65-72% 
aPLdHIV aged 50+, 42-48% 60+ and 17-19% 70+. This corresponds to ∼83,400 aPLdHIV 
(28% women) aged 60+, among which ∼69% started ART more than 20 years ago (i.e. 
before 2010) and ∼39% ≥30 years ago (i.e. before 2000), and to ∼33,100 aPLdHIV 
(27% women) aged 70+, among which ∼72% started ART ≥20 years ago and ∼43% 
≥30 years ago.
CONCLUSIONS: By 2030, in France, close to 20% of the aPLdHIV will be aged 70+, 
of which >40% would have started ART more than 30 years ago. These estimates are 
essential to adapt co-morbidities screening and anticipate resource provision in 
the aged care sector.

© 2022 The Authors. Journal of the International AIDS Society published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of the International AIDS Society.

DOI: 10.1002/jia2.25986
PMCID: PMC9523002
PMID: 36176023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: VS reports lecture fees from ViiV (2019), Gilead 
(2019, 2020) and Janssen‐Cilag (2020), outside the submitted work. DC reports an 
HIV grant from Janssen (2019–2020) and personal fees from Gilead (2020) and 
Pfizer (2022) for lectures, outside the submitted work. LM, AR, SG and YD 
declare no competing interests.


138. IEEE Int Conf Rehabil Robot. 2022 Jul;2022:1-5. doi: 
10.1109/ICORR55369.2022.9896576.

Detection thresholds for electrostimulation combined with robotic leg support in 
sub-acute stroke patients.

Cindy J H R, Prange-Lasonder GB, Prinsen EC, Buurke JH, Rietman JS.

Stroke is one of the leading causes of disability in adults in the European 
Union. It often leads to motor impairments, such as a hemiparetic lower 
extremity. Research indicates that early task-specific and intensive training 
promotes neuroplasticity and leads to recovery and/or compensation. One way to 
provide intensive training early after a stroke is via robot-supported training. 
A rehabilitation robot was designed by Life Science Robotics (Aalborg, Denmark) 
that can provide continuous repetitive movements of the hip, knee, and/or ankle 
in e.g., a lying position. In order to emphasize active contribution by the 
patient, actively triggered electrical stimulation (via muscle activation) can 
be combined with robotic assistance. The current study aims to compare different 
threshold estimation methods for detection of movement intention from muscle 
activity for actively triggered electrical stimulation during robot-supported 
leg movement in stroke patients. Three sub-acute stroke patients were included 
for a single measurement session. They performed knee extension and/or ankle 
dorsal flexion with four different threshold estimation methods to assess the 
intention detection threshold to initiate electrostimulation. The thresholds 
were based on the resting level of muscle activity (of m. rectus femoris or m. 
tibialis anterior) plus two or three times the standard deviation of the average 
resting value, or the resting level plus 5% or 10% of the peak muscle activity 
during a maximal voluntary contraction. The results showed that the method based 
on the resting muscle activity plus two times the standard deviation was the 
most stable across the three included stroke patients. This method had a 
detection success rate of 86.7% and was experienced as moderately comfortable. 
In conclusion, performing knee extension and/or ankle dorsal flexion with 
electromyography triggered electrostimulation is feasible in sub-acute stroke 
patients. Muscle activity-triggered electrostimulation combined with robotic 
support based on a threshold of resting levels plus two times the standard 
deviation seems to detect movement initiation most consistently in this small 
sample of sub-acute stroke patients.

DOI: 10.1109/ICORR55369.2022.9896576
PMID: 36176097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. IEEE Int Conf Rehabil Robot. 2022 Jul;2022:1-6. doi: 
10.1109/ICORR55369.2022.9896533.

A new robot-based proprioceptive training algorithm to induce sensorimotor 
enhancement in the human wrist.

Albanese GA, Basile E, Momi E, Zenzeri J.

Afferent proprioceptive signals, responsible for body awareness, have a crucial 
role when planning and executing motor tasks. Increasing evidence suggests that 
proprioceptive sensory training may improve motor performance. Although this 
topic had been partially investigated, there was a lack of studies involving the 
wrist joint. Proprioception at the wrist level is particularly relevant to 
interact with the environment through actions that require an accurate sense of 
position and motion, and fine haptic perception. In this study, we implemented 
and tested a robotic training algorithm of human wrist proprioception. The 
proposed task was a continuous tracking in the workspace identified by 
flexion-extension and radial-ulnar deviation movements. Healthy subjects were 
haptically guided towards the target, without any visual feedback of the 
position of the end- effector. Our results showed that, after the training, 
participants improved their motor performance in a different tracking task, 
completely active and with visual feedback Additionally, the training led them 
to more efficient use of kinesthetic feedback during haptically-guided reaching 
tasks. Our findings demonstrated that the proposed training algorithm of wrist 
proprioception induced a task-specific sensorimotor enhancement. From the 
perspective of a rehabilitative intervention, this robot-based training has the 
potential to improve motor functions and the quality of life of subjects with 
sensorimotor deficits.

DOI: 10.1109/ICORR55369.2022.9896533
PMID: 36176156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. IEEE Int Conf Rehabil Robot. 2022 Jul;2022:1-6. doi: 
10.1109/ICORR55369.2022.9896550.

Design of a compliant, stabilizing wrist mechanism for a pediatric hand 
exoskeleton.

Dittli J, Vasileiou C, Asanovski H, Lieber J, Lin JB, Meyer-Heim A, Van Hedel 
HJA, Gassert R, Lambercy O.

Children affected by hand impairment due to cerebral palsy or stroke experience 
serious difficulties when performing activities of daily life (ADL), which 
reduces their quality of life and development. Wearable robots such as hand 
exoskeletons have been proposed to support people with hand impairment in 
therapy as well as daily tasks. While numerous actuated wearable robots have 
been developed, few designs support both fingers and wrist function, despite 
being mutually relevant for reach-to-grasp tasks. A recent feasibility study 
investigating the use of PEXO, a lightweight and fully wearable pediatric hand 
exoskeleton, showed that a wrist fixed in a slightly extended position may limit 
the user's ability to reach and grasp during ADL and restrict the user group. 
These insights and further interactions with clinicians inspired a novel design 
of PEXO that features an additional degree of freedom in the wrist. In this 
paper, we present a compliant wrist mechanism extending the existing leaf spring 
finger mechanism of the device. The novel design provides both wrist motion 
capability of 60° in flexion and extension and wrist stabilization at the same 
time while actively supporting finger motion. Preliminary results suggest that 
the adjustability in the wrist enables a larger variety of grasping gestures. 
The implemented wrist support has the potential to allow for a more versatile 
use of PEXO and increase the potential target user group.

DOI: 10.1109/ICORR55369.2022.9896550
PMID: 36176168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Sci Total Environ. 2023 Jan 10;855:158901. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.158901.  Epub 2022 Sep 19.

Lifetime exposure to PM(2.5) air pollution and disability-adjusted life years 
due to cardiopulmonary disease: A modeling study based on nationwide 
longitudinal data.

Lo WC(1), Hu TH(2), Hwang JS(3).

Author information:
(1)Master Program in Applied Epidemiology, College of Public Health, Taipei 
Medical University, Taipei 10675, Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Statistical Science, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529, Taiwan.
(3)Institute of Statistical Science, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529, Taiwan. 
Electronic address: hwang@sinica.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: As knowledge of the health risks of PM2.5 has grown, the focus of 
PM2.5-related health impact assessments has evolved from simple risk models to 
burden-of-disease estimates. We proposed an ecological approach to directly 
estimate the impacts of lifetime exposure to PM2.5 on expected health losses due 
to cardiopulmonary diseases for older adult populations in Taiwan.
METHODS: We created study cohorts of 3.5 million older people living in 350 
townships in Taiwan. We used a weighted regression model, with adjustments of 
area characteristic variables, to directly estimate the impacts of lifetime mean 
PM2.5 exposure on health losses among the 350 cohorts. Potential avoidable 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) by assuming that ambient PM2.5 met the 
air quality standard was estimated.
RESULTS: Each 10 μg/m3 increase in lifetime mean exposure to PM2.5 for an 
individual corresponded to an increment of 0.25 (95 % confidence interval (CI): 
0.18-0.32) DALYs due to cardiopulmonary diseases, after adjusting for a wide 
range of ecological covariates. We estimated that 611.8 (95 % CI: 440.4-783.2) 
DALYs per 1000 older adult population could potentially be avoided by achieving 
air quality standards of WHO in Taiwan.
CONCLUSIONS: Reducing PM2.5 pollution in Taiwan associated with significant 
health co-benefits, providing important implications for public health and 
environmental management.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.158901
PMID: 36176245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have declared that no competing interests exist.


142. Clin Med Insights Oncol. 2022 Sep 27;16:11795549221123618. doi: 
10.1177/11795549221123618. eCollection 2022.

Changes in Behavior After Vaccination and Opinions Toward Mask Wearing: Thoracic 
Oncology Patient-Reported Experiences During the COVID-19 Pandemic.

Bolt T(1)(2), Tufman A(1)(2), Sellmer L(1)(2), Kahnert K(1)(2), Mertsch P(1)(2), 
Kovács J(2)(3), Kauffmann-Guerrero D(1)(2), Munker D(1), Manapov F(2)(4), 
Schneider C(2)(3), Behr J(1)(2), Walter J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine V, University Hospital, LMU Munich, München, Germany.
(2)Comprehensive Pneumology Center Munich (CPC-M), German Center for Lung 
Research (DZL), München, Germany.
(3)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Thoracic Oncology Centre Munich, 
Ludwig-Maximilian University of Munich, München, Germany.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Thoracic Oncology Centre Munich, 
Ludwig-Maximilian University of Munich, München, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 vaccines, face masks, and social distancing are 
effective interventions to prevent SARS-CoV-2 infections. In this study, we 
aimed to determine lung cancer patients' attitudes toward vaccination, changes 
in behavior after vaccination, and willingness to continue mask wearing after 
the pandemic.
METHODS: We sent out questionnaires to 220 thoracic oncology patients treated at 
our lung cancer center in May 2021. The questionnaire focused on patients' 
vaccination status, self-reported experiences surrounding vaccination, and 
assessed changes in behaviors before and after vaccination as well as opinions 
toward mask wearing after the pandemic. Results are presented as absolute and 
relative frequencies and means with standard deviation and compared using t 
test, paired t test, and analysis of variance test as well as chi2 test, and 
Fisher exact text.
RESULTS: About 91.0% of patients reported having received at least 1 
vaccination. About 73.3% of patients reported having at least 1 reaction to the 
vaccination. The most common reactions were pain at the injection site, fatigue, 
and headache. After vaccination, patients increased contact with family and 
friends, use of public transport, and grocery shopping. Overall, the level of 
willingness to wear masks beyond the end of the pandemic differed according to 
vaccination status.
CONCLUSIONS: Acceptance of the COVID-19 vaccination among thoracic oncology 
patients in Germany was high. Overall, patients with thoracic malignancies 
tolerated the COVID-19 vaccination well. Rate of adverse reaction was not higher 
compared with the general population. After the vaccination, patients increased 
social contacts and usage of public transport. These changes suggest positive 
psychological effects on quality of life. While reducing social distancing can 
increase the risk of infection, our results indicate that an extension of mask 
mandates after the pandemic would likely be accepted by a majority of thoracic 
oncology patients, suggesting that our cohort was still aware and in support of 
other measure of protection.

© The Author(s) 2022.

DOI: 10.1177/11795549221123618
PMCID: PMC9515761
PMID: 36176285

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


143. Front Pharmacol. 2022 Sep 13;13:979682. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2022.979682. 
eCollection 2022.

Nasal delivery of neurotherapeutics via nanocarriers: Facets, aspects, and 
prospects.

Rajput A(1), Pingale P(2), Dhapte-Pawar V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, Poona College of Pharmacy, Bharti Vidyapeeth 
Deemed University, Pune, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, GES's Sir Dr. M. S. Gosavi College of 
Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Nashik, India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the neurological ailments which continue to 
represent a major public health challenge, owing to increased life expectancy 
and aging population. Progressive memory loss and decrease in cognitive 
behavior, owing to irreversible destruction of neurons along with expensive 
therapeutic interventions, call for an effective, alternate, yet affordable 
treatment for Alzheimer's disease. Safe and effective delivery of 
neurotherapeutics in Alzheimer's like central nervous system (CNS) disorders 
still remains elusive despite the major advances in both neuroscience and drug 
delivery research. The blood-brain barrier (BBB) with its tight endothelial cell 
layer surrounded by astrocyte foot processes poses as a major barrier for the 
entry of drugs into the brain. Nasal drug delivery has emerged as a reliable 
method to bypass this blood-brain barrier and deliver a wide range of 
neurotherapeutic agents to the brain effectively. This nasal route comprises the 
olfactory or trigeminal nerves originating from the brain and terminating into 
the nasal cavity at the respiratory epithelium or olfactory neuroepithelium. 
They represent the most direct method of noninvasive entry into the brain, 
opening the most suitable therapeutic avenue for treatment of neurological 
diseases. Also, drugs loaded into nanocarriers can have better interaction with 
the mucosa that assists in the direct brain delivery of active molecules 
bypassing the BBB and achieving rapid cerebrospinal fluid levels. Lipid 
particulate systems, emulsion-based systems, vesicular drug delivery systems, 
and other nanocarriers have evolved as promising drug delivery approaches for 
the effective brain delivery of anti-Alzheimer's drugs with improved 
permeability and bioavailability via the nasal route. Charge, size, nature of 
neurotherapeutics, and formulation excipients influence the effective and 
targeted drug delivery using nanocarriers via the nasal route. This article 
elaborates on the recent advances in nanocarrier-based nasal drug delivery 
systems for the direct and effective brain delivery of the neurotherapeutic 
molecules. Additionally, we have attempted to highlight various experimental 
strategies, underlying mechanisms in the pathogenesis and therapy of central 
nervous system diseases, computational approaches, and clinical investigations 
pursued so far to attain and enhance the direct delivery of therapeutic agents 
to the brain via the nose-to-brain route, using nanocarriers.

Copyright © 2022 Rajput, Pingale and Dhapte-Pawar.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2022.979682
PMCID: PMC9513345
PMID: 36176429

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


144. Front Plant Sci. 2022 Sep 13;13:1022143. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2022.1022143. 
eCollection 2022.

Editorial: Hormonal crosstalk on the regulation of stress responses.

Kim TH(1), Lee BR(2), Islam MT(3), Avice JC(4).

Author information:
(1)Grassland Science Laboratory, Department of Animal Science, Institute of 
Agricultural Science and Technology, College of Agriculture and Life Science, 
Chonnam National University, Gwangju, South Korea.
(2)Institute of Environmentally-Friendly Agriculture (IEFA), Chonnam National 
University, Gwangju, South Korea.
(3)Alson H. Smith Jr. Agricultural Research and Extension Center, School of 
Plant and Environmental Sciences, Virginia Tech, Winchester, VA, United States.
(4)Normandie Univ, UNICAEN, INRAE, UMR EVA, SFR Normandie Végétal FED4277, 
Esplanade de la Paix, Caen, France.

Comment on
    Editorial on the Research Topic Hormonal crosstalk on the regulation of 
stress responses.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2022.1022143
PMCID: PMC9513581
PMID: 36176681

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


145. Regen Biomater. 2022 Sep 5;9:rbac062. doi: 10.1093/rb/rbac062. eCollection
2022.

Functional biomaterials for tendon/ligament repair and regeneration.

Tang Y(1), Wang Z(1), Xiang L(1), Zhao Z(1), Cui W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Shanghai Key Laboratory for Prevention and 
Treatment of Bone and Joint Diseases, Shanghai Institute of Traumatology and 
Orthopaedics, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, 
Shanghai 200025, P. R. China.

With an increase in life expectancy and the popularity of high-intensity 
exercise, the frequency of tendon and ligament injuries has also increased. 
Owing to the specificity of its tissue, the rapid restoration of injured tendons 
and ligaments is challenging for treatment. This review summarizes the latest 
progress in cells, biomaterials, active molecules and construction technology in 
treating tendon/ligament injuries. The characteristics of supports made of 
different materials and the development and application of different 
manufacturing methods are discussed. The development of natural polymers, 
synthetic polymers and composite materials has boosted the use of scaffolds. In 
addition, the development of electrospinning and hydrogel technology has 
diversified the production and treatment of materials. First, this article 
briefly introduces the structure, function and biological characteristics of 
tendons/ligaments. Then, it summarizes the advantages and disadvantages of 
different materials, such as natural polymer scaffolds, synthetic polymer 
scaffolds, composite scaffolds and extracellular matrix (ECM)-derived biological 
scaffolds, in the application of tendon/ligament regeneration. We then discuss 
the latest applications of electrospun fiber scaffolds and hydrogels in 
regeneration engineering. Finally, we discuss the current problems and future 
directions in the development of biomaterials for restoring damaged tendons and 
ligaments.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/rb/rbac062
PMCID: PMC9514853
PMID: 36176715


146. Int J Chron Obstruct Pulmon Dis. 2022 Sep 23;17:2369-2379. doi: 
10.2147/COPD.S374782. eCollection 2022.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of the TCM "Yupingfeng Granules" in the Treatment of 
Acute Exacerbations of COPD Based on a Randomized Clinical Trial.

Hu M(#)(1), Ding P(#)(1), Ma J(2), Yang N(1), Zheng J(2), Zhou N(1).

Author information:
(1)West China School of Pharmacy Sichuan University, Chengdu, People's Republic 
of China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, National Clinical Research 
Center for Respiratory Disease, Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory Health, the 
First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, People's 
Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) is becoming increasingly 
important as it provides further options for treating many diseases worldwide. 
The TCM "Yupingfeng" has been used in China for over 800 years, and its clinical 
efficacy and safety for COPD treatment have been proven in previous studies. The 
objective of this study was to compare the long-term cost-effectiveness of 
Yupingfeng granules and the current conventional treatment for COPD patients in 
China.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed from the perspective of the Chinese 
healthcare system using TreeAge Pro 2011. The model cycle length was 12 months, 
and the cycle time was set to 10 years. Data from a randomized controlled trial 
were used to generate the number of acute exacerbations, COPD assessment test 
(CAT) score and actual medication used. The state transition probabilities, 
costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were derived from available 
sources. A threshold of 72,447 yuan per QALY gained was used as a 
cost-effectiveness criterion. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
were conducted to verify the model. In addition, the cost-effectiveness of a 
35-year cycle was evaluated as a scenario analysis.
RESULTS: In the basic-case analysis, the ICER of adding Yupingfeng granules to 
the current conventional treatment drugs was ¥2123.04 per QALY, which was less 
than the threshold (one-time per capita GDP).Sensitivity analyses showed the 
results to be robust. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that the 
probability of the ICER being less than the one-time per capita GDP threshold 
was 100%. In the scenario analysis, the incremental cost-effectiveness was 
¥12,051.27 per QALY which was also under the one-time per capita GDP.
CONCLUSION: By reducing the number of acute exacerbations of COPD, thereby 
correspondingly reducing the follow-up treatment cost, Yupingfeng granules 
combined with conventional treatment were found to provide a cost-effective 
therapeutic strategy for COPD.

© 2022 Hu et al.

DOI: 10.2147/COPD.S374782
PMCID: PMC9514780
PMID: 36176739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


147. Heliyon. 2022 Sep 22;8(9):e10734. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e10734. 
eCollection 2022 Sep.

Linking product design and durability: A review and research agenda.

Mesa JA(1)(2), Gonzalez-Quiroga A(3), Aguiar MF(4), Jugend D(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Universidad del Norte, Barranquilla, 
Colombia, 081001.
(2)Department of Industrial Engineering, Pontificia Universidad Javeriana, 
Bogotá DC, Colombia 110231.
(3)UREMA Research Unit, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Universidad del 
Norte, Barranquilla, Colombia, 081001.
(4)São Paulo State University (UNESP), Production Engineering Department, Bauru, 
Brazil, 17000-000.

Durability has become a valuable design aspect for designers, manufacturers, 
service providers, and end-of-life actors. Nowadays, developing products for new 
business models based on renting and servitization practices is of paramount 
importance. Furthermore, durability enables the application of circularity 
strategies for product lifespan extension, including reuse, repair, refurbish, 
and remanufacture. However, despite the growing trend around durability, there 
is no precise tracing of its evolution, implementation, and potential benefits 
from the product design stage. Therefore, this article aims to analyze the 
existing literature about durability and its relationship with the circular 
economy concept starting from the product design process, uncovering potential 
research directions, challenges, and trends for its application. A total of 147 
articles were selected and analyzed from 40 years of research using two main 
approaches. First, a keyword-based analysis was used to identify trending topics 
around the concept of durability. Second, a content-based analysis was used, 
encompassing four main aspects: objectives and methodology; actors involved and 
lifecycle phases; circular economy strategies; and design phase, design 
attributes, and type of products involved. The analysis identified how the 
concept has evolved during the last four decades, indicating that future trends 
envisage methodologies, assessment tools, and guidelines to support product life 
extension.

© 2022 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e10734
PMCID: PMC9513616
PMID: 36177240

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


148. Hypertension. 2022 Nov;79(11):2631-2641. doi:
10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.122.20051.  Epub 2022 Sep 30.

Cost-Effectiveness of Intensive Versus Standard Blood Pressure Treatment in 
Older Patients With Hypertension in China.

Fan J(1), Zheng W(2), Liu W(3), Xu J(2), Zhou L(2), Liu S(4), Bai J(1), Qi Y(5), 
Huang W(#)(2), Liu K(#)(6), Cai J(#)(1).

Author information:
(1)Fuwai Hospital, National Center for Cardiovascular Diseases, Peking Union 
Medical College & Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China (J.F., 
J.B., J.C.).
(2)School of Health Management, Harbin Medical University, China (W.Z., J.X., 
L.Z., W.H.).
(3)Department of Cardiology, Beijing Jishuitan Hospital, Peking University 
Fourth Hospital, China (W.L.).
(4)Department of Cardiology, Kailuan General Hospital, Tangshan, China (S.L.).
(5)Department of Epidemiology, Beijing An Zhen Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, China (Y.Q.).
(6)China National Health Development Research Center, Beijing (K.L.).
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: In the STEP trial (Strategy of Blood Pressure Intervention in older 
Hypertensive Patients), the risk of cardiovascular events is significantly lower 
in patients who received intensive systolic blood psressure (BP) treatment than 
in those who received standard treatment. This study compared the lifetime 
health benefits and medical costs of intensive BP treatment with those of 
standard BP treatment.
METHODS: A microsimulation model included 10 000 hypothetical samples of Chinese 
adults aged 60 to 80 years old with baseline systolic BP higher than 140 mm Hg. 
Primary outcome was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio from a payer's 
perspective. Secondary outcome was cardiovascular events, including acute 
coronary syndrome, stroke, acute decompensated heart failure, atrial 
fibrillation, and death from cardiovascular causes.
RESULTS: The model simulated that cardiovascular events occurred in 36.88% of 
the patients in the intensive treatment group, as compared to 41.28% of the 
patients in the standard treatment group over the lifetime horizon. The mean 
number of quality-adjusted life-years would be 0.16 higher in patients who 
received intensive treatment than in those who received standard treatment and 
would cost Chinese yuan 12 614 (International dollars 3018) more per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained. Most simulation results indicated that 
intensive treatment would be cost-effective (82%-95% below the 
willingness-to-pay threshold of Chinese yuan 72 000 [1× the gross domestic 
product per capita in China in 2020]). Sensitivity analyses showed that these 
conclusions were robust.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, intensive BP treatment prevented cardiovascular 
events among older patients with hypertension in China and was cost-effective in 
most scenarios.
REGISTRATION: URL: https://www.
CLINICALTRIALS: gov; Unique identifier: NCT03015311.

DOI: 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.122.20051
PMID: 36177835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Rheumatol Ther. 2022 Dec;9(6):1587-1603. doi: 10.1007/s40744-022-00495-0.
Epub  2022 Sep 30.

Population Pharmacokinetics and Exposure-Response Analyses for Risankizumab in 
Patients with Active Psoriatic Arthritis.

Thakre N(1), D'Cunha R(2), Goebel A(1), Liu W(2), Pang Y(3), Suleiman AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Pharmacology, AbbVie Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG, Ludwigshafen am 
Rhein, Germany.
(2)Clinical Pharmacology, AbbVie, Inc, 1 North Waukegan Road, Bldg. AP31-3, 
North Chicago, IL, 60064, USA.
(3)Clinical Pharmacology, AbbVie, Inc, 1 North Waukegan Road, Bldg. AP31-3, 
North Chicago, IL, 60064, USA. yinuo.pang@abbvie.com.

INTRODUCTION: Risankizumab is an anti-IL23 monoclonal antibody approved for the 
treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and active psoriatic arthritis 
(PsA). This work characterizes the pharmacokinetics of risankizumab in PsA 
compared with psoriasis and evaluates the efficacy and safety exposure-response 
relationships in PsA.
METHODS: The population pharmacokinetic analyses included data from 1527 
participants that originated from one phase 1 healthy participant study, one 
phase 2 dose-ranging study in patients with PsA with an open-label extension 
study, and two pivotal phase 3 studies in patients with PsA, where the clinical 
regimen of risankizumab 150 mg administered subcutaneously (SC) at weeks 0, 4, 
and every 12 weeks thereafter was compared with placebo. Pharmacokinetics were 
analyzed using nonlinear mixed-effects modeling. Simulation analyses using the 
final model were conducted to evaluate the impact of covariates on exposure. 
Data from 1407 patients with PsA from the phase 3 studies were included in the 
exposure-response analyses. Graphical analyses were used to evaluate efficacy 
and safety exposure-response relationships, and logistic regression was 
conducted for further assessment of efficacy exposure-response relationships.
RESULTS: Risankizumab pharmacokinetics were well described by a two-compartment 
model with first-order SC absorption and elimination. None of the evaluated 
covariates showed clinically relevant impact on exposure. On the basis of the 
final model, systemic clearance, steady-state volume of distribution, and 
terminal phase elimination half-life were estimated to be ~ 0.31 L/day, 11.1 L, 
and 26.3 days, respectively, for a typical 90 kg patient with PsA. Absolute SC 
bioavailability was estimated to be 83.5%. Exposure-response quartile analyses 
suggested that exposures associated with the clinical regimen maximized efficacy 
across the endpoints evaluated. No exposure dependency was observed for key 
safety endpoints.
CONCLUSIONS: Risankizumab exhibited linear and time-independent pharmacokinetics 
in patients with PsA and was comparable to patients with plaque psoriasis. 
Efficacy and safety exposure-response analyses support that the clinical regimen 
achieved robust efficacy with a favorable safety profile for patients with 
active PsA.
CLINICAL TRIALS: NCT02596217, NCT02719171, NCT02986373, NCT03671148, and 
NCT03675308.
CLINICAL TRIALS: NCT02596217, NCT02719171, NCT02986373, NCT03671148, and 
NCT03675308.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40744-022-00495-0
PMCID: PMC9561470
PMID: 36178584


150. PLoS One. 2022 Sep 30;17(9):e0275511. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0275511. 
eCollection 2022.

A multi-method characterization of Elasmobranch & Cheloniidae communities of the 
north-eastern Red Sea and Gulf of Aqaba.

Garzon F(1)(2), Williams CT(3), Cochran JEM(3), Tanabe LK(3), Abdulla A(4), 
Berumen ML(3), Habis T(4), Marshall PA(4), Rodrigue M(5), Hawkes LA(2).

Author information:
(1)MarAlliance, Ancon, Panama City, Panama.
(2)Hatherley Laboratories, College of Life and Environmental Sciences, 
University of Exeter, Exeter, United Kingdom.
(3)Division of Biological and Environmental Science and Engineering, Red Sea 
Research Center, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Thuwal, 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
(4)Saudi Water Sports Federation, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
(5)OceanX, New York, NY, United States of America.

The Red Sea is particularly biodiverse, hosting high levels of endemism and 
numerous populations whose extinction risk is heightened by their relative 
isolation. Elasmobranchs and sea turtles have likely suffered recent declines in 
this region, although data on their distribution and biology are severely 
lacking, especially on the eastern side of the basin in Saudi Arabian waters. 
Here, we present sightings of elasmobranchs and sea turtles across the 
north-eastern Red Sea and Gulf of Aqaba collected through a combination of 
survey methods. Over 455 survey hours, we recorded 407 sightings belonging to 26 
elasmobranch species and two sea turtle species, more than 75% of which are of 
conservation concern. We identified 4 species of rays and 9 species of sharks 
not previously recorded in Saudi Arabia and report a range extension for the 
pink whipray (Himantura fai) and the round ribbontail ray (Taeniurops meyeni) 
into the Gulf of Aqaba. High density of sightings of conservation significance, 
including green and hawksbill sea turtles and halavi guitarfish were recorded in 
bay systems along the eastern Gulf of Aqaba and the Saudi Arabian coastline 
bordering the north-eastern Red Sea, and many carcharhinid species were 
encountered at offshore seamounts in the region. Our findings provide new 
insights into the distribution patterns of megafaunal assemblages over smaller 
spatial scales in the region, and facilitate future research and conservation 
efforts, amidst ongoing, large-scale coastal developments in the north-eastern 
Red Sea and Gulf of Aqaba.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0275511
PMCID: PMC9524659
PMID: 36178940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


151. J Environ Manage. 2022 Dec 15;324:116358. doi:
10.1016/j.jenvman.2022.116358.  Epub 2022 Sep 27.

Fabrication and characterization of pectin-graphene oxide-magnesium ferrite-zinc 
oxide nanocomposite for photocatalytic degradation of diclofenac in an aqueous 
solution under visible light irradiation.

Bateni A(1), Valizadeh K(2), Salahshour Y(3), Behroozi AH(4), Maleki A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Arak Branch, Islamic Azad University, 
Arak, Iran.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad 
University, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Shahid Chamran University of 
Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.
(4)School of Chemical, Petroleum and Gas Engineering, Iran University of Science 
and Technology, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Catalysts and Organic Synthesis Research Laboratory, Department of Chemistry, 
Iran University of Science and Technology, Tehran, 16846-13114, Iran. Electronic 
address: maleki@iust.ac.ir.

Wastewater containing pharmaceutical contaminants has become a critical 
environmental concern due to rising population and drug consumption caused by 
increased life expectancy. Diclofenac (DCF) is one of the most applicable drugs 
for veterinary and human health purposes, polluting surface waters in different 
ways. This work aims to synthesize a novel pectin-graphene oxide (GO)-magnesium 
ferrite (MgFe2O4)-zinc oxide (ZnO) nanocomposite (PGMZ) for photocatalytic 
degradation of DCF in an aquatic environment under visible light irradiation. 
The single and synthesized nanocomposites were characterized by several 
analyses, confirming the successful synthesis of the nanocomposite. Effects of 
four operation conditions, including nanocomposite dosage (1-1.25 g/L), 
nanocomposite type, initial contaminant concentration (35-55 mg/L), and solution 
pH (3-11), were investigated on the degradation performance. From the kinetic 
study, the effect of mixing two composites, i.e., synergy percentage, was 38.7% 
when ZnO-MgFe2O4 particles were added to the GO-pectin structure. By examining 
the effect of different free radical enhancers and scavenging compounds on the 
DCF photodegradation, the most influential scavenging components were in the 
following order; NaCl > Na2CO3 > Na2SO4, while K2S2O8 was a better enhancer than 
H2O2 at their optimal concentration. Finally, the PGMZ photocatalyst was reused 
six times with a reduction of about 20% in its removal efficiency, indicating 
excellent reusability and stability.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2022.116358
PMID: 36179472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


152. Neuro Endocrinol Lett. 2022 Sep 16;43(3):173-179.

A retrospective observational study on cases of osteosarcomas treated with a 
multitherapy: The rationale and effectiveness.

Di Bella G(1), Di Bella L(1), Borghetto V(1), Moscato I(1), Costanzo E(1).

Author information:
(1)Giuseppe Di Bella Foundation - ONLUS, Bologna, Italy.

BACKGROUNDS: The prognosis of patients with osteosarcoma in many cases remains 
poor, and life expectancy with lung metastases is around 12 months. Chemotherapy 
and radiotherapy can only temporarily control neoplastic progression, followed 
by developing chemo and radioresistant tumours.
METHODS: This is a retrospective observational study on 15 patients diagnosed 
with osteosarcoma and treated by a multitherapy approach. The multitherapy 
consisted of somatostatin and analogous (octreotide) all-trans-retinoic acid 
(ATRA), β-Carotene, axerophthol dissolved in vitamin E, vitamin D, vitamin C, 
melatonin (MLT), proteoglycans, glycosaminoglycans, hydroxyurea, and sodium 
butyrate.
RESULTS: This multitherapy increased the survival rate and life quality, without 
overt toxicity, compared to the standard treatment for osteosarcomas. The agents 
in this approach have several functions. They exert antiproliferative, 
antiangiogenic, cytostatic, antioxidant, antimetastatic, and immunomodulating 
features. Moreover, the inclusion of ATRA, MLT, and sodium butyrate has 
reinforced antitumor properties on cancer stem cells. Furthermore, the 
non-cytolytic and non-cytotoxic metronomic hydroxyurea dosage increased the 
biological therapy outcome by strengthening antitumor capability.
FINDINGS: This multitherapy approach is effective against osteosarcoma.
INTERPRETATION: The multistrategy of this multitherapy therapy are inhibiting 
the proliferative-invasiveness and neoplastic angiogenesis, silencing the 
survival system of cancer stem cells, enhancing the immunomodulatory and 
antioxidant activities, improving vitality and efficiency of normal cells, and 
depressing the efficiency and vitality of neoplastic ones.

PMID: 36179729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Lancet HIV. 2022 Oct;9(10):e709-e716. doi: 10.1016/S2352-3018(22)00198-9.

Differences in healthy longevity by HIV status and viral load among older South 
African adults: an observational cohort modelling study.

Payne CF(1), Houle B(2), Chinogurei C(3), Herl CR(4), Kabudula CW(5), Kobayashi 
LC(6), Salomon JA(7), Manne-Goehler J(8).

Author information:
(1)School of Demography, Research School of Social Sciences, The Australian 
National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia; Center for Population and 
Development Studies, Harvard T H Chan School of Public Health, Cambridge, MA, 
USA. Electronic address: collin.payne@anu.edu.au.
(2)School of Demography, Research School of Social Sciences, The Australian 
National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia; MRC/Wits Rural Public Health and 
Heath Transitions Research Unit (Agincourt), School of Public Health, Faculty of 
Health Sciences, University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(3)Centre for Infectious Diseases and Epidemiology Research, School of Public 
Health and Family Medicine, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa.
(4)School of Economics, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, Netherlands.
(5)MRC/Wits Rural Public Health and Heath Transitions Research Unit (Agincourt), 
School of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(6)Center for Social Epidemiology and Population Health, Department of 
Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA.
(7)Center for Primary Care and Outcomes Research, Stanford University, Palo 
Alto, CA, USA.
(8)Division of Infectious Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA; Center for Population and Development Studies, Harvard T H Chan School of 
Public Health, Cambridge, MA, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet HIV. 2022 Oct;9(10):e672-e673.

BACKGROUND: The population of people living with HIV in South Africa is rapidly 
ageing due to increased survivorship attributable to antiretroviral therapy 
(ART). We sought to understand how the combined effects of HIV and ART have led 
to differences in healthy longevity by HIV status and viral suppression in this 
context.
METHODS: In this observational cohort modelling study we use longitudinal data 
from the 2015 baseline interview (from Nov 13, 2014, to Nov 30, 2015) and the 
2018 longitudinal follow-up interview (from Oct 12, 2018, to Nov 7, 2019) of the 
population-based study Health and Ageing in Africa: a Longitudinal Study of an 
INDEPTH Community in South Africa (HAALSI) to estimate life expectancy and 
disability-free life expectancy (DFLE) of adults aged 40 years and older in 
rural South Africa. Respondents who consented to HIV testing, responded to 
survey questions on disability, and who were either interviewed in both surveys 
or who died between survey waves were included in the analysis. We estimate life 
expectancy and DFLE by HIV status and viral suppression (defined as <200 copies 
per mL) using Markov-based microsimulation.
FINDINGS: Among the 4322 eligible participants from the HAALSI study, we find a 
clear gradient in remaining life expectancy and DFLE based on HIV serostatus and 
viral suppression. At age 45 years, the life expectancy of a woman without HIV 
was 33·2 years (95% CI 32·0-35·0), compared with 31·6 years (29·2-34·1) a woman 
with virally suppressed HIV, and 26·4 years (23·1-29·1) for a woman with 
unsuppressed HIV; life expectancy for a 45 year old man without HIV was 27·2 
years (25·8-29·1), compared with 24·1 years (20·9-27·2) for a man with virally 
suppressed HIV, and 17·4 years (15·0-20·3) for a man with unsuppressed HIV. Men 
and women with viral suppression could expect to live nearly as many years of 
DFLE as HIV-uninfected individuals at ages 45 years and 65 years.
INTERPRETATION: These results highlight the tremendous benefits of ART for 
population health in high-HIV-prevalence contexts and reinforce the need for 
continued work in making ART treatment accessible to ageing populations.
FUNDING: National Institutes of Health.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2352-3018(22)00198-9
PMCID: PMC9553125
PMID: 36179754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests We declare no competing 
interests.


154. Life Sci. 2022 Dec 1;310:121015. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2022.121015. Epub 2022
Sep  28.

Advances in FGFs for diabetes care applications.

Liu Y(1), Chen Q(1), Li Y(1), Bi L(1), He Z(2), Shao C(3), Jin L(4), Peng R(5), 
Zhang X(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Life Sciences & Biomedicine Collaborative Innovation Center of 
Zhejiang Province, College of Life and Environmental Science, Wenzhou 
University, Wenzhou 325035, China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou 325035, China.
(3)Department of Hepatopancreatobiliary Surgery, Lishui Central Hospital, The 
Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Lishui Hospital of 
Zhejiang University, Lishui 323000, China.
(4)Institute of Life Sciences & Biomedicine Collaborative Innovation Center of 
Zhejiang Province, College of Life and Environmental Science, Wenzhou 
