
825. Ecancermedicalscience. 2022 Jun 13;16:1411. doi: 10.3332/ecancer.2022.1411. 
eCollection 2022.

What does it take to conduct clinical trials in African countries? Insights from 
Morocco.

Benhima N(1)(2), El Fadli M(1)(2), Essâdi I(2)(3), Belbaraka R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Department, Mohammed VI University Hospital, Marrakech 
40080, Morocco.
(2)Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, Cadi Ayyad University, Marrakech 40080, 
Morocco.
(3)Medical Oncology Department, Avicenne Military Hospital, Marrakech, Morocco.

The progress on cancer diagnosis and treatment has attained, in the last decade, 
enormous achievements by any estimate. Immunotherapy, new generations of 
targeted therapies, Chimeric antigen T-cells, cancer vaccines and the 
fascinating breakthroughs in translational research and cancer biology have 
changed the direction of cancer care. However, the fact that all patients 
worldwide cannot have access to these advances is dramatic. Alongside this, 
taking part in clinical research is one way to improve and invest in cancer 
care. Patients from African-and most low-resources countries-are rarely offered 
the chance of being included in clinical trials. This well-known fact paints a 
disheartening picture of what having cancer is like in the poorest settings. 
This situation will further decline with population aging, major changes in risk 
profile imported from developed countries and life expectancy increasing in most 
African countries. If no radical changes are made, this North-South contrast 
will become more critical and continue to grow. Yet, there is room for hope 
because only when we acknowledge the problem can we begin to address it. We need 
a better understanding of the reasons behind this gap and to advocate for more 
representation from African patients in clinical trials, with respect to the 
socio-economic, epidemiological and unique demands of each country across the 
continent.

© the authors; licensee ecancermedicalscience.

DOI: 10.3332/ecancer.2022.1411
PMCID: PMC9377813
PMID: 36072231

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


826. Front Immunol. 2022 Aug 22;13:979469. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.979469. 
eCollection 2022.

Nanomaterials: A powerful tool for tumor immunotherapy.

Chen Z(1), Yue Z(2), Wang R(3), Yang K(1), Li S(4).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Medicine, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China.
(2)Department of Forensic Medicine, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China.
(3)Department of Outpatient, Dongying People's Hospital, Dongying, China.
(4)Department of Bone and Soft Tissue Tumor Surgery, Cancer Hospital of Dalian 
University of Technology, Cancer Hospital of China Medical University, Liaoning 
Cancer Hospital and Institute, Shenyang, China.

Cancer represents the leading global driver of death and is recognized as a 
critical obstacle to increasing life expectancy. In recent years, with the 
development of precision medicine, significant progress has been made in cancer 
treatment. Among them, various therapies developed with the help of the immune 
system have succeeded in clinical treatment, recognizing and killing cancer 
cells by stimulating or enhancing the body's intrinsic immune system. However, 
low response rates and serious adverse effects, among others, have limited the 
use of immunotherapy. It also poses problems such as drug resistance and 
hyper-progression. Fortunately, thanks to the rapid development of 
nanotechnology, engineered multifunctional nanomaterials and biomaterials have 
brought breakthroughs in cancer immunotherapy. Unlike conventional cancer 
immunotherapy, nanomaterials can be rationally designed to trigger specific 
tumor-killing effects. Simultaneously, improved infiltration of immune cells 
into metastatic lesions enhances the efficiency of antigen submission and 
induces a sustained immune reaction. Such a strategy directly reverses the 
immunological condition of the primary tumor, arrests metastasis and inhibits 
tumor recurrence through postoperative immunotherapy. This paper discusses 
several types of nanoscale biomaterials for cancer immunotherapy, and they 
activate the immune system through material-specific advantages to provide novel 
therapeutic strategies. In summary, this article will review the latest advances 
in tumor immunotherapy based on self-assembled, mesoporous, cell membrane 
modified, metallic, and hydrogel nanomaterials to explore diverse tumor 
therapies.

Copyright © 2022 Chen, Yue, Wang, Yang and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.979469
PMCID: PMC9441741
PMID: 36072591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


827. Front Genet. 2022 Aug 22;13:902960. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2022.902960.
eCollection  2022.

Transparent human - (non-) transparent technology? The Janus-faced call for 
transparency in AI-based health care technologies.

Ott T(1), Dabrock P(1).

Author information:
(1)Chair of Systematic Theology II (Ethics), Faculty of Humanities, Social 
Sciences, and Theology, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, 
Erlangen, Germany.

The use of Artificial Intelligence and Big Data in health care opens up new 
opportunities for the measurement of the human. Their application aims not only 
at gathering more and better data points but also at doing it less invasive. 
With this change in health care towards its extension to almost all areas of 
life and its increasing invisibility and opacity, new questions of transparency 
arise. While the complex human-machine interactions involved in deploying and 
using AI tend to become non-transparent, the use of these technologies makes the 
patient seemingly transparent. Papers on the ethical implementation of AI plead 
for transparency but neglect the factor of the "transparent patient" as 
intertwined with AI. Transparency in this regard appears to be Janus-faced: The 
precondition for receiving help - e.g., treatment advice regarding the own 
health - is to become transparent for the digitized health care system. That is, 
for instance, to donate data and become visible to the AI and its operators. The 
paper reflects on this entanglement of transparent patients and (non-) 
transparent technology. It argues that transparency regarding both AI and humans 
is not an ethical principle per se but an infraethical concept. Further, it is 
no sufficient basis for avoiding harm and human dignity violations. Rather, 
transparency must be enriched by intelligibility following Judith Butler's use 
of the term. Intelligibility is understood as an epistemological presupposition 
for recognition and the ensuing humane treatment. Finally, the paper highlights 
ways to testify intelligibility in dealing with AI in health care ex ante, ex 
post, and continuously.

Copyright © 2022 Ott and Dabrock.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2022.902960
PMCID: PMC9444183
PMID: 36072654

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


828. Prim Dent J. 2022 Sep;11(3):71-79. doi: 10.1177/20501684221112493.

Oral surgery: Considerations for the medically complex patient.

Bryant C(1).

Author information:
(1)Consultant Oral Surgeon, Department of Oral Surgery, King's College Hospital 
NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.

As life expectancy and the number of people living with chronic illness 
increases, the medical complexity of patients requiring oral surgery will also 
increase. This and the continuously evolving range of medical treatments used to 
manage their conditions will increasingly challenge dentists in both primary and 
secondary care to avoid complications and treat this patient group safely.This 
paper will describe the importance of careful treatment planning including 
consideration of the timing and location in which oral surgery is undertaken for 
medically complex patients. The risk of acute medical events, bleeding, 
infection, and impaired healing which may complicate oral surgical procedures in 
this group of patients is discussed and the role in their care played by general 
dental practitioners explored.

DOI: 10.1177/20501684221112493
PMID: 36073043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Prim Dent J. 2022 Sep;11(3):108-116. doi: 10.1177/20501684221112512.

Osteonecrosis of the jaw in primary dental care: Recognition and referral.

Burns M(1), Patel V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery, Guy's and St Thomas's NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK.

Osteoradionecrosis (ORN) and medication-related osteonecrosis of the jaw (MRONJ) 
are uncommon conditions, however when present they have a significant impact on 
a patient's quality of life and are notoriously difficult to treat. With medical 
advances resulting in improved survival rates and increased life expectancy, it 
is likely that general dental practitioners (GDPs) will more frequently be 
involved in the oral health management of patients at risk of both ORN and 
MRONJ. Though management of both diseases is beyond the scope of primary care 
dentistry, the GDP still has a key role in the patient's overall care. It is 
therefore important to have a good understanding of these conditions and their 
consequences for dental treatment in order to provide adequate patient support. 
Management requires a multidisciplinary approach to treatment and as part of 
this GDPs are integral in prevention, early recognition and maintenance of oral 
health following diagnosis. This article aims to refresh the reader's knowledge 
regarding MRONJ and ORN and support the GDP in managing this patient group.

DOI: 10.1177/20501684221112512
PMID: 36073051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Scand J Urol. 2022 Oct-Dec;56(5-6):353-358. doi:
10.1080/21681805.2022.2119272.  Epub 2022 Sep 8.

The clinical consequences of routine (68)Ga-PSMA-11 PET/CT in patients with 
newly diagnosed prostate cancer, ISUP grade 5 and no metastases based on 
standard imaging - preliminary results.

Zacho HD(1)(2), Nalliah S(1), Petersen A(3), Petersen LJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine and Clinical Cancer Research Center, Aalborg 
University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark.
(3)Department of Pathology, Aalborg University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark.

AIM: To evaluate the clinical consequences of prostate specific membrane antigen 
(PSMA) PET/CT for primary staging in patients with ISUP grade 5 (Gleason score 
≥9) prostate cancer (PCa), and no definitive distant metastases based on 
standard imaging.
METHODS: At our tertial referral center, PSMA PET/CT became standard of care 
from August 2018 for primary staging of prostate cancer given the following 
criteria: (1) no prior treatment for prostate cancer, (2) ISUP grade 5, (3) no 
definitive metastases on standard imaging (contrast enhanced CT and bone 
scintigraphy), and (4) deemed suitable for treatment with curative intent based 
on comorbidity and life expectancy. We present the preliminary results of first 
six months recruitment with 12 months of follow-up.
RESULTS: Forty-eight patients (mean age 69 years, median PSA 13.0 ng/mL, 20 
patients with locally advanced PCa) were included. CT was positive in pelvic 
lymph nodes in two patients, bone scintigraphy was equivocal in three patients. 
PSMA PET/CT showed pathological uptake outside the prostatic bed in 22 patients 
(46%) of which 13 patients (27%) showed lesions confined to regional lymph 
nodes, and nine patients (19%) showed nonregional lymph node metastases and/or 
bone metastases. PSMA PET/CT changed the treatment strategy from curatively 
intended treatment to palliative treatment in 18 patients (38%).
CONCLUSION: PMSA PET/CT revealed pathological uptake in a large proportion of 
high-risk patients at primary staging among patients with no definite metastases 
on standard imaging leading to change of patient management in 38% of the 
patients.

DOI: 10.1080/21681805.2022.2119272
PMID: 36073096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. S Afr Fam Pract (2004). 2022 Aug 24;64(1):e1-e8. doi:
10.4102/safp.v64i1.5528.

Hypertensive patients' knowledge and practices on lifestyle modification in 
Extension 6, Middelburg.

Rahimi A(1), Nkombua L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Pretoria, Pretoria. amirkankash47@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Hypertension (HTN) is one of the most common chronic diseases 
affecting the majority of patients worldwide, including in South Africa. The 
control of HTN and prevention of complications are major challenges for patients 
and healthcare workers. The proper control of the disease requires a 
multifactorial approach consisting of medical treatment, as well as lifestyle 
modification, with the assistance of healthcare workers. Addressing patients' 
beliefs, the practice of lifestyle and acceptance of change are some of the ways 
of aiding control.
METHODS: The researchers used a cross-sectional and descriptive survey to 
establish the knowledge and practices of lifestyle modifications in patients 
with hypertension. A validated questionnaire was adopted. A total of 250 
participants from the Extension 6 Clinic in Middelburg, Mpumalanga, constituted 
the study population.
RESULTS: Most of the participants had borderline high blood pressure (37.2%) or 
uncontrolled high blood pressure (46%). The participants' knowledge of HTN and 
its complications was not adequate. The study established that increased age and 
long duration of HTN were associated with high numbers of uncontrolled HTN. Most 
of the participants (88.8%) had difficulty exercising. Also, most of the 
participants (90.8%) did not have a place or facility for exercises. Fifty per 
cent of the participants were unable to maintain a balanced healthy diet which 
included fruits and vegetables.
CONCLUSION: The study explored the participants' knowledge and practice of 
lifestyle modification. The participants lacked knowledge regarding the 
definition of HTN and the meaning of controlled HTN. To assist the patients and 
improve on the identified pitfalls, each consultation session should include 
some methods of education, and motivation for healthy behaviours and lifestyle 
modification. This should be extended to all the people visiting the health 
facilities for them to adopt a healthier diet, greater intake of vegetables and 
availability of fitness facilities for the community.

DOI: 10.4102/safp.v64i1.5528
PMCID: PMC9459174
PMID: 36073105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no financial 
or personal relationships that may have inappropriately influenced them in 
writing this article.


832. G Ital Nefrol. 2022 Aug 29;39(4):2022-vol4.

[A narrative review on arteriovenous fistula for hemodialysis].

[Article in Italian]

Satta E(1), Romano C(2), Alfarone C(2), Raiola I(2), Scarpati L(2), Lo Iacono 
F(2), Di Maio M(2), Russo L(3), Russo D(4), Pagliuca MM(5).

Author information:
(1)CNP, Centro Nefrologico Polispecialistico, Nefrocenter srl.
(2)Nefrocenter Research.
(3)Nefrologia. Ospedale del Mare. Napoli.
(4)Dipartimento di Sanità Pubblica. Università di Napoli, Federico II.
(5)Department of Management Studies and Quantitative Methods (DISAQ) University 
of Naples "Parthenope".

Vascular access is the lifeline for hemodialysis patients. Autologous 
artero-venous fistula (AVF) is still the most popular vascular access for 
hemodialysis even if declining during the last decades. Compared to central 
venous catheters and vascular grafts, AVF is characterized by a lower risk of 
infection and lower number of hospitalizations, and by a better quality of life, 
higher dialysis efficiency, and more prolonged life expectancy for patients. 
Since the year 1966 when the two surgeons Cimino and Brescia had the idea of 
connecting the forearm vein and artery for chronic dialysis, several data have 
accumulated on surgical procedures, positioning of AVF (distal vs proximal), 
time for the first use, monitoring and surveilling. All guidelines suggest that 
special care should be given by monitoring and surveilling AVF to avoid its 
failure or fatal closing. Attention should be paid to the patient's vasculature 
before surgery, through the "maturation" phase and chronic use. Indeed, AVF 
requires constant and careful care. The crucial role is played by the patient 
itself in cooperation with devoted clinical staff participated by skilled 
nurses, nephrologists, surgeons, radiologists, and sonographers. Literature on 
AVF is evaluated and guidelines suggestions reported as well as the data 
attained by the Accesso Vascolare per Emodialisi (AVE) project. This project 
aimed to evaluate the benefits of monitoring and surveilling, operated by a 
multidisciplinary team on dialysis adequacy, AVF longevity, and patient's 
mortality.

Copyright by Società Italiana di Nefrologia SIN, Rome,Italy.

PMID: 36073330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2022 Sep 2;297:323-330. doi: 10.3233/SHTI220856.

Healthcare Facilities and Dementia Development of a Framework to Assess Design 
Quality.

Mangili S(1), Capolongo S(1).

Author information:
(1)Politecnico di Milano, Department of Architecture, Built environment and 
Construction engineering.

In recent years, thanks to advances in medicine and the role of prevention, life 
expectancy has experienced rapid growth (from 77.6 to 81.3 years), resulting in 
an increase in Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) and years lived with disability. 
One of these is dementia, with about 7 million people currently affected in 
Europe while the number is set to double by 2050. These patients are complex due 
to the serious changes in their cognitive sphere, altering perceptions of their 
physical space. Because of age and multimorbidity, they are the most frequent 
users of healthcare facilities, but these structures often are not suitable to 
them. For example, during the COVID-19 pandemic, healthcare facilities 
demonstrated criticalities in structural and social issues. To this end, a 
rethinking of these spaces is urgent, and the use of Evidence-Based Design (EBD, 
the design based on findings from scientific research) can be a method to create 
safe and suitable environments. This study aims to develop an evaluation 
framework to assess the design quality of healthcare facilities for people with 
dementia. A systematic literature review was conducted to define a set of 
requirements that the space must have to be prosthetic for the patient. The 
framework consists of three macro areas (i.e., physical, social, and cognitive 
aspects), seven criteria, and 24 sub criteria. The proposed framework is a 
starting point for the development of inclusive projects for people with 
dementia and cognitive disabilities. Architecture has recently begun to approach 
the topic of dementia, especially in Italy. Therefore, it is urgent to 
investigate which are the main aspects to be considered in the design and 
renovations of facilities to make them as therapeutic and prosthetic as 
possible, creating places where the wellbeing of patients is the priority, both 
physical and psychological. To this end, EBD needs to become a habit for 
designers to create facilities suitable for people with both cognitive 
impairments and for every user, in line with the principles of Universal Design.

DOI: 10.3233/SHTI220856
PMID: 36073410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2022 Aug 31;298:112-116. doi:
10.3233/SHTI220918.

Individualising Life Expectancy Is Necessary for Optimal Prescribing.

Rajput VK(1)(2), Dowie J(2)(3), Kaltoft MK(3).

Author information:
(1)Stonydelph Health Centre, Tamworth, UK.
(2)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
(3)University of Southern Denmark.

One possible cause of overprescribing (or insufficient deprescribing) is the 
failure to explicitly address the individual's life expectancy (LE). For 
example, if a LE estimate shows the person has six months to live, this should 
influence the prescribing of a medication that offers benefits only over a much 
longer LE. Predicting exactly the number of years a person will live is 
impossible, but probabilistic forecasting is possible and arguably essential, 
both for the selection of the optimal intervention and for meeting the 
'reasonable patient' standard of information about the harms and benefits of 
alternative options. One side-effect of the COVID-19 pandemic has been to bring 
mortality into greater prominence, hopefully facilitating its discussion in the 
clinic as part of the 'new normal'. This paper outlines the case for introducing 
LE into prescribing decisions as a way of making more individualised decisions 
and potentially reducing overprescribing. It concentrates on how the clinical 
task of arriving at individualised estimates of LE might be tackled, especially 
in the case of the growing number of older patients with heterogeneous 
sociodemographic characteristics who are experiencing multiple long term 
conditions of varying severity and are frequently subject to 'polypharmacy'.

DOI: 10.3233/SHTI220918
PMID: 36073467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Saudi J Gastroenterol. 2023 Mar-Apr;29(2):71-87. doi:
10.4103/sjg.sjg_207_22.

The impact of smartphone applications on bowel preparation, compliance with 
appointments, cost-effectiveness, and patients' quality of life for the 
colonoscopy process: A scoping review.

Aksan F(1), Tanriverdi LH(2), Figueredo CJ(1), Barrera LC(3), Hasham A(4), 
Jariwala SP(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine/Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Medical Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Inonu University, 
Malatya, Turkey.
(3)Catholic Health Services of Long Island, Bay Shore, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology and Liver Diseases, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine/Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA.
(5)Montefiore Einstein Innovation Biodesign Training Program; Clinical and 
Research Innovation, Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine/Montefiore Medical Center; Department of Allergy and Immunology, Albert 
Einstein College of Medicine/Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA.

The aim of this scoping review is to evaluate the impact of smartphone 
application (SPA) technology in patients undergoing elective colonoscopy to 
measure compliance with appointments, cost-effectiveness, bowel preparation, and 
quality of life. The scoping review was performed according to the Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping 
Reviews. Ovid Medline, Web of Science, Science Direct, Scopus, Cochrane Library, 
and PubMed were screened up to Oct 14, 2020, and bibliographies of the retrieved 
articles were included. Based on pre-specified inclusion and exclusion criteria, 
8 primary studies were included in the final analysis from a total of 3,979 
non-duplicate articles. Seven out of eight studies measured the bowel 
preparation quality. In six of these studies, patients in the smartphone group 
had a successful bowel preparation when compared with the control arm; on the 
other hand, one study did not find any differences between groups. Adherence to 
colonoscopy screening was assessed by one study. Patients in the digital 
intervention arm were significantly more likely to complete a screening test. 
Patient satisfaction during the periprocedural period of colonoscopy was 
assessed by five studies which reported significantly higher patient 
satisfaction in the intervention arm compared to the control arm. None of the 
studies measured cost-effectiveness. We came to the conclusion that a 
well-designed, user-friendly SPA can help and guide patients undergoing 
colonoscopy through the process of following up on their appointments, adhering 
to bowel preparation, and better understanding their disease condition. Future 
trials investigating SPAs should include cost-effectiveness and adherence to 
appointments as an endpoint.

DOI: 10.4103/sjg.sjg_207_22
PMCID: PMC10270477
PMID: 36073572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None


836. Dermatologie (Heidelb). 2022 Oct;73(10):782-787. doi: 
10.1007/s00105-022-05053-x. Epub 2022 Sep 8.

[New treatment concepts and combination therapies for cutaneous T-cell 
lymphomas].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Assaf C(1)(2), Dobos G(3).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Dermatologie und Venerologie, Helios Klinikum Krefeld, Krefeld, 
Deutschland.
(2)Hauttumorzentrum (HTCC), Klinik für Dermatologie, Venerologie und 
Allergologie, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Charitéplatz 1, 10117, Berlin, 
Deutschland.
(3)Hauttumorzentrum (HTCC), Klinik für Dermatologie, Venerologie und 
Allergologie, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Charitéplatz 1, 10117, Berlin, 
Deutschland. gabor.dobos@charite.de.

Primary cutaneous T‑cell lymphomas are a heterogeneous group of rare diseases. 
Patients often suffer from visible, severely pruritic skin lesions, infections, 
relapses, and their life expectancy may be reduced. Under current therapies, 
long-lasting, complete remission is rare. However, new treatment approaches and 
combination therapies are changing the future. Here, we provide an overview on 
this topic.

Publisher: Primär kutane T‑Zell-Lymphome sind eine heterogene Gruppe von 
seltenen Erkrankungen. Die Patienten leiden häufig an stark juckenden 
Hautveränderungen, Sichtbarkeit der Läsionen, Infektionen, Rezidiven, und ihre 
Lebenserwartung kann reduziert sein. Unter den aktuellen Therapien sind 
dauerhafte komplette Remissionen selten. Neue Therapieansätze und 
Kombinationstherapien ändern jedoch den Horizont. Hier geben wir einen Überblick 
zu diesem Thema.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Medizin Verlag GmbH, 
ein Teil von Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00105-022-05053-x
PMID: 36074144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2022 Dec;122(12):2575-2583. doi:
10.1007/s00421-022-05034-x.  Epub 2022 Sep 8.

Using passive or active back-support exoskeletons during a repetitive lifting 
task: influence on cardiorespiratory parameters.

Schwartz M(1)(2), Desbrosses K(3), Theurel J(3), Mornieux G(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Working Life Department, French National Research and Safety Institute for 
the Prevention of Occupational Accidents and Diseases (INRS), 1 Rue du Morvan, 
54500, Vandœuvre-Les-Nancy, France. mathilde.schwartz@inrs.fr.
(2)Université de Lorraine, DevAH, 54000, Nancy, France. 
mathilde.schwartz@inrs.fr.
(3)Working Life Department, French National Research and Safety Institute for 
the Prevention of Occupational Accidents and Diseases (INRS), 1 Rue du Morvan, 
54500, Vandœuvre-Les-Nancy, France.
(4)Université de Lorraine, DevAH, 54000, Nancy, France.
(5)Faculty of Sport Sciences, Université de Lorraine, Nancy, France.

The objective of this laboratory study was to assess the cardiorespiratory 
consequences related to the use of different back-support exoskeletons during a 
repetitive lifting task. Fourteen women and thirteen men performed a dynamic 
stoop lifting task involving full flexion/extension of the trunk in the sagittal 
plane. This task was repeated for 5 min with a 10 kg load to handle. Four 
conditions were tested: with a passive exoskeleton (P-EXO), with two active 
exoskeletons (A-EXO1 and A-EXO2), as well as without exoskeleton (FREE). The 
oxygen consumption rate and cardiac costs were measured continuously. Results 
showed a significantly lower (p < 0.05) oxygen consumption rate for all 
exoskeletons as compared to FREE (12.6 ± 2.2 ml/kg/min). The values were also 
significantly lower (p < 0.001) for A-EXO1 (9.1 ± 1.8 ml/kg/min) compared to 
A-EXO2 (11.0 ± 1.8 ml/kg/min) and P-EXO (11.8 ± 2.4 ml/kg/min). Compared to FREE 
(59.7 ± 12.9 bpm), the cardiac cost was significantly reduced (p < 0.001) only 
for A-EXO1 (45.1 ± 11.5 bpm). Several factors can explain these differences on 
the cardiorespiratory parameters observed between exoskeletons: the technology 
used (passive vs active), the torque provided by the assistive device, the 
weight of the system, but also the level of anthropomorphism (related to the 
number of joints used by the exoskeleton). Our results also highlighted the lack 
of interaction between the exoskeleton and sex. Thereby, the three back-support 
exoskeletons tested appeared to reduce the overall physical workload associated 
with a repetitive lifting task both for men and women.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00421-022-05034-x
PMID: 36074202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2022 Sep;20(9):997-1004.e3. doi: 
10.6004/jnccn.2022.7038.

Healthcare Cost Trajectories in the Last 2 Years of Life Among Patients With a 
Solid Metastatic Cancer: A Prospective Cohort Study.

Balasubramanian I(1), Finkelstein E(1)(2), Malhotra R(2)(3), Ozdemir S(1)(2), 
Malhotra C(1)(2); COMPASS Study Team.

Author information:
(1)Lien Centre for Palliative Care.
(2)Program in Health Services and Systems Research, and.
(3)Centre for Ageing Research and Education, Duke-NUS Medical School, Singapore.

BACKGROUND: Most studies describe the "average healthcare cost trend" among 
patients with cancer. We aimed to delineate heterogeneous trajectories of 
healthcare cost during the last 2 years of life of patients with a metastatic 
cancer and to assess the associated sociodemographic and clinical 
characteristics and healthcare use.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We analyzed a sample of 353 deceased patients from a 
cohort of 600 with a solid metastatic cancer in Singapore, and we used 
group-based trajectory modeling to identify trajectories of total healthcare 
cost during the last 2 years of life.
RESULTS: The average cost trend showed that mean monthly healthcare cost 
increased from SGD $3,997 during the last 2 years of life to SGD $7,516 during 
the last month of life (USD $1 = SGD $1.35). Group-based trajectory modeling 
identified 4 distinct trajectories: (1) low and steadily decreasing cost (13%); 
(2) steeply increasing cost in the last year of life (14%); (3) high and 
steadily increasing cost (57%); and (4) steeply increasing cost before the last 
year of life (16%). Compared with the low and steadily decreasing cost 
trajectory, patients with private health insurance (β [SE], 0.75 [0.37]; P=.04) 
and a greater preference for life extension (β [SE], -0.14 [0.07]; P=.06) were 
more likely to follow the high and steadily increasing cost trajectory. Patients 
in the low and steadily decreasing cost trajectory were most likely to have used 
palliative care (62%) and to die in a hospice (27%), whereas those in the 
steeply increasing cost before the last year of life trajectory were least 
likely to have used palliative care (14%) and most likely to die in a hospital 
(75%).
CONCLUSIONS: The study quantifies healthcare cost and shows the variability in 
healthcare cost trajectories during the last 2 years of life. Policymakers, 
clinicians, patients, and families can use this information to better 
anticipate, budget, and manage healthcare costs.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2022.7038
PMID: 36075386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Sci Rep. 2022 Sep 8;12(1):15223. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-19496-8.

Economic evaluation of single-photon emission-computed tomography versus stress 
echocardiography in stable chest pain patients.

Javan-Noughabi J(1)(2), Rezapour A(3), Hajahmadi M(4), Alipour V(5).

Author information:
(1)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical 
Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Department of Health Economics and Management Sciences, School of Health, 
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(3)Health Management and Economics Research Center, School of Health Management 
and Information Sciences, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. 
rezapour.a@iums.ac.ir.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Rasoul Akram General Hospital, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Health Management and Economics Research Center, School of Health Management 
and Information Sciences, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

The timely diagnosis of coronary artery disease (CAD) is an important medical 
problem. This study aims to assess the cost-effectiveness of Single-Photon 
Emission-Computed Tomography (SPECT) compared with stress echocardiography in 
stable chest pain patients. An economic evaluation study was conducted to assess 
the cost-effectiveness of SPECT versus stress echocardiography in stable chest 
pain patients without known CAD between April 1, 2017, and September 1, 2018 in 
Tehran, Iran. This study was performed from a societal perspective. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was calculated using a decision tree model. 
In addition, the robustness of results was examined by deterministic and 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis. This study showed that the expected cost and 
expected QALY for Stress echocardiography was $1106.75 and 0.83 respectively. 
Also, SPECT had expected cost and expected QALY equal to $1622.39 and 0.80 
respectively. Finally, Stress echocardiography was the dominant strategy for 
CAD, with a lower cost and greater effectiveness than SPECT. The stress 
echocardiography can saved $18,528.17 per QALY. A deterministic and 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis confirmed the robustness of the results. 
Stress echocardiography was a more cost-effective method for diagnosing CAD 
disease in stable chest pain patients without known CAD compared to SPECT.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-022-19496-8
PMCID: PMC9458740
PMID: 36076061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


840. Foods. 2022 Aug 30;11(17):2631. doi: 10.3390/foods11172631.

Investigating the Efficacy of Tasmannia lanceolata Extract in Inactivating Fungi 
and Prolonging the Shelf Life of Date Fruit.

Al-Asmari F(1)(2), Akter S(2), Mereddy R(3), Sultanbawa Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, College of Agriculture and Food 
Sciences, King Faisal University, P.O. Box 400, Al-Hofuf 31982, Saudi Arabia.
(2)ARC Industrial Transformation Training Centre for Uniquely Australian Foods, 
Centre for Nutrition and Food Sciences, Queensland Alliance for Agriculture and 
Food Innovation (QAAFI), The University of Queensland, Elkhorn Building (#1024), 
80 Meiers Road, Indooroopilly, QLD 4068, Australia.
(3)Department of Agriculture and Fisheries, Queensland Government, Health and 
Food Sciences Precinct, 39 Kessels Rd, Coopers Plains, QLD 4108, Australia.

Date palm (Phoenix dactylifera L.) is one of the world’s oldest cultivated 
plants. Post-harvest losses of date palm due to fungal contamination reached up 
to 50% of the total production. This study aimed to investigate the potential of 
the extract of Tasmanian pepper leaf (TPL) and the non-thermal treatment of 
photosensitization mediated by curcumin in reducing the fungal contamination and 
enhancing the shelf life of date palm. In the in vivo storage study, the dates 
were treated with three different concentrations of TPL extract 12.5, 25, and 50 
µg/mL and stored at 30 °C. The findings obtained for the treatment with TPL 
extract exhibited potent antifungal activity against most of the tested fungi, 
where minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) and minimum fungicidal 
concentrations (MFCs) were < 25 µg/mL for polygodial, the bioactive compound in 
TPL. The shelf life of date palm treated by 50 µg/mL polygodial was extended up 
to 21 days, thrice as much as the untreated controls. In contrast, a lower 
concentration of TPL extract (25 µg/mL polygodial) revealed up to a 15-day shelf 
life extension compared to untreated dates (7 days). The results obtained from 
the study suggested that using TPL extracts against pathogenic and spoilage 
fungi occurring in fresh date fruits is a promising treatment for the shelf life 
extension of fresh date fruits at room temperature.

DOI: 10.3390/foods11172631
PMCID: PMC9455253
PMID: 36076815

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.841. Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Aug 24;23(17):9569. doi: 10.3390/ijms23179569.

Curcumin Sensitises Cancerous Kidney Cells to TRAIL Induced Apoptosis via Let-7C 
Mediated Deregulation of Cell Cycle Proteins and Cellular Metabolism.

Obaidi I(1)(2), Blanco Fernández A(3), McMorrow T(4).

Author information:
(1)NatPro Centre for Natural Product Research, School of Pharmacy and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Trinity College Dublin, D02 W272 Dublin, Ireland.
(2)College of Pharmacy, University of Babylon, Babylon 51002, Iraq.
(3)Flow Cytometry Core Technology, Conway Institute of Biomolecular and 
Biomedical Research, University College Dublin, D04 V1W8 Dublin, Ireland.
(4)Centre for Toxicology, School of Biomedical and Biomolecular Sciences, Conway 
Institute, University College Dublin, D04 V1W8 Dublin, Ireland.

Targeted therapies are the most attractive options in the treatment of different 
tumours, including kidney cancers. Such therapies have entered a golden era due 
to advancements in research, breakthroughs in scientific knowledge, and a better 
understanding of cancer therapy mechanisms, which significantly improve the 
survival rates and life expectancy of patients. The use of tumour necrosis 
factor (TNF)-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL) as an anticancer therapy 
has attracted the attention of the scientific community and created great 
excitement due to its selectivity in targeting cancerous cells with no toxic 
impacts on normal tissues. However, clinical studies disappointingly showed the 
emergence of resistance against TRAIL. This study aimed to employ curcumin to 
sensitise TRAIL-resistant kidney cancerous ACHN cells, as well as to gain 
insight into the molecular mechanisms of TRAIL sensitization. Curcumin 
deregulated the expression of apoptosis-regulating micro Ribonucleic Acid 
(miRNAs), most notably, let-7C. Transfecting ACHN cells with a let-7C antagomir 
significantly increased the expression of several cell cycle protein, namely 
beta (β)-catenin, cyclin dependent kinase (CDK)1/2/4/6 and cyclin B/D. Further, 
it overexpressed the expression of the two key glycolysis regulating proteins 
including hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α) and pyruvate dehydrogenase 
kinase 1 (PDK1). Curcumin also suppressed the expression of the overexpressed 
proteins when added to the antagomir transfected cells. Overall, curcumin 
targeted ACHN cell cycle and cellular metabolism by promoting the differential 
expression of let-7C. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to 
mechanistically report the cancer chemosensitisation potential of curcumin in 
kidney cancer cells via induction of let-7C.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms23179569
PMCID: PMC9455736
PMID: 36076967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


842. Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Sep 1;23(17):9957. doi: 10.3390/ijms23179957.

Therapeutics That Can Potentially Replicate or Augment the Anti-Aging Effects of 
Physical Exercise.

De Sousa Lages A(1), Lopes V(1), Horta J(2), Espregueira-Mendes J(3), Andrade 
R(3), Rebelo-Marques A(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology Department, Hospital de Braga, 4710 Braga, Portugal.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Coimbra, 3000 Coimbra, Portugal.
(3)Clínica Espregueira, FIFA Excellence Centre of Medicine, 4350 Porto, 
Portugal.

Globally, better health care access and social conditions ensured a significant 
increase in the life expectancy of the population. There is, however, a clear 
increase in the incidence of age-related diseases which, besides affecting the 
social and economic sustainability of countries and regions around the globe, 
leads to a decrease in the individual's quality of life. There is an urgent need 
for interventions that can reverse, or at least prevent and delay, the 
age-associated pathological deterioration. Within this line, this narrative 
review aims to assess updated evidence that explores the potential therapeutic 
targets that can mimic or complement the recognized anti-aging effects of 
physical exercise. We considered pertinent to review the anti-aging effects of 
the following drugs and supplements: Rapamycin and Rapamycin analogues 
(Rapalogs); Metformin; 2-deoxy-D-glucose; Somatostatin analogues; Pegvisomant; 
Trametinib; Spermidine; Fisetin; Quercetin; Navitoclax; TA-65; Resveratrol; 
Melatonin; Curcumin; Rhodiola rosea and Caffeine. The current scientific 
evidence on the anti-aging effect of these drugs and supplements is still scarce 
and no recommendation of their generalized use can be made at this stage. 
Further studies are warranted to determine which therapies display a 
geroprotective effect and are capable of emulating the benefits of physical 
exercise.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms23179957
PMCID: PMC9456478
PMID: 36077358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


843. Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Sep 5;23(17):10189. doi: 10.3390/ijms231710189.

Thalassemia Intermedia: Chelator or Not?

Lee YC(1)(2), Yen CT(3), Lee YL(1), Chen RJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Tainan Hospital, Ministry of Health and 
Welfare, Executive Yuan, Tainan 70043, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University Hospital, Tainan 70403, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Tainan Hospital, Ministry of Health and 
Welfare, Executive Yuan, Tainan 70043, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Food Safety/Hygiene and Risk Management, College of Medicine, 
National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 70403, Taiwan.

Thalassemia is the most common genetic disorder worldwide. Thalassemia 
intermedia (TI) is non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT), which includes 
β-TI hemoglobin, E/β-thalassemia and hemoglobin H (HbH) disease. Due to the 
availability of iron chelation therapy, the life expectancy of thalassemia major 
(TM) patients is now close to that of TI patients. Iron overload is noted in TI 
due to the increasing iron absorption from the intestine. Questions are raised 
regarding the relationship between iron chelation therapy and decreased patient 
morbidity/mortality, as well as the starting threshold for chelation therapy. 
Searching all the available articles up to 12 August 2022, 
iron-chelation-related TI was reviewed. In addition to splenectomized patients, 
osteoporosis was the most common morbidity among TI cases. Most study designs 
related to ferritin level and morbidities were cross-sectional and most were 
from the same Italian study groups. Intervention studies of iron chelation 
therapy included a subgroup of TI that required regular transfusion. Liver iron 
concentration (LIC) ≥ 5 mg/g/dw measured by MRI and ferritin level > 300 ng/mL 
were suggested as indicators to start iron chelation therapy, and iron chelation 
therapy was suggested to be stopped at a ferritin level ≤ 300 ng/mL. No studies 
showed improved overall survival rates by iron chelation therapy. TI morbidities 
and mortalities cannot be explained by iron overload alone. Hypoxemia and 
hemolysis may play a role. Head-to-head studies comparing different treatment 
methods, including hydroxyurea, fetal hemoglobin-inducing agents, 
hypertransfusion as well as iron chelation therapy are needed for TI, hopefully 
separating β-TI and HbH disease. In addition, the target hemoglobin level should 
be determined for β-TI and HbH disease.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms231710189
PMCID: PMC9456380
PMID: 36077584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


844. Cancers (Basel). 2022 Aug 26;14(17):4135. doi: 10.3390/cancers14174135.

The Clinical Utility of Systemic Immune-Inflammation Index Supporting Charlson 
Comorbidity Index and CAPRA-S Score in Determining Survival after Radical 
Prostatectomy-A Single Centre Study.

Zapała P(1), Garbas K(1), Lewandowski Z(2), Zapała Ł(1), Ślusarczyk A(1), 
Ślusarczyk C(1), Mielczarek Ł(3), Radziszewski P(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinic of General, Oncological and Functional Urology, Medical University of 
Warsaw, Lindleya 4, 02-005 Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Medical University of Warsaw, Oczki 3, 02-007 
Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Second Department of Urology, Centre of Postgraduate Medical Education, 
Cegłowska 80, 01-809 Warsaw, Poland.

The selection of candidates for the curative treatment of PCa requires a careful 
assessment of life expectancy. Recently, blood-count inflammatory markers have 
been introduced as prognosticators of oncological and non-oncological outcomes 
in different settings. This retrospective, monocentric study included 421 
patients treated with radical prostatectomy (RP) for nonmetastatic PCa and aimed 
at determining the utility of a preoperative SII (neutrophil count × platelet 
count/lymphocyte count) in predicting survival after RP. Patients with high SIIs 
(≥900) presented significantly shorter survival (p = 0.02) and high SIIs 
constituted an independent predictor of overall survival [HR 2.54 (95%CI 
1.24−5.21); p = 0.01] when adjusted for high (≥6) age-adjusted CCI (ACCI) [HR 
2.75 (95%CI 1.27−5.95); p = 0.01] and high (≥6) CAPRA-S [HR 2.65 (95%CI 
1.32−5.31); p = 0.006]. Patients with high scores (ACCI and/or CAPRA-S) and high 
SIIs were at the highest risk of death (p < 0.0001) with approximately a 
one-year survival loss during the first seven years after surgery. In subgroup 
of high CAPRA-S (≥6), patients with high ACCIs and high SIIs were at the highest 
risk of death (p <0.0001). Our study introduces the SII as a straightforward 
marker of mortality after RP that can be helpful in pre- and postoperative 
decision-making.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14174135
PMCID: PMC9454624
PMID: 36077673

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


845. Cells. 2022 Aug 26;11(17):2657. doi: 10.3390/cells11172657.

Glutamate Signaling and Filopodiagenesis of Astrocytoma Cells in Brain Cancers: 
Survey and Questions.

Tabatabaee M(1), Menard F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, The University of British Columbia, Kelowna, BC V1V 
1V7, Canada.
(2)Department of Chemistry, The University of British Columbia, Kelowna, BC V1V 
1V7, Canada.

Astrocytes are non-excitable cells in the CNS that can cause life-threatening 
astrocytoma tumors when they transform to cancerous cells. Perturbed homeostasis 
of the neurotransmitter glutamate is associated with astrocytoma tumor onset and 
progression, but the factors that govern this phenomenon are less known. Herein, 
we review possible mechanisms by which glutamate may act in facilitating the 
growth of projections in astrocytic cells. This review discusses the 
similarities and differences between the morphology of astrocytes and 
astrocytoma cells, and the role that dysregulation in glutamate and calcium 
signaling plays in the aberrant morphology of astrocytoma cells. Converging 
reports suggest that ionotropic glutamate receptors and voltage-gated calcium 
channels expressed in astrocytes may be responsible for the abnormal 
filopodiagenesis or process extension leading to astrocytoma cells' infiltration 
throughout the brain.

DOI: 10.3390/cells11172657
PMCID: PMC9454653
PMID: 36078065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


846. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Aug 27;19(17):10672. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph191710672.

County-Level Life Expectancy Change: A Novel Metric for Monitoring Public 
Health.

Chandran A(1), Purbey R(1), Leifheit KM(2), Evans KM(1), Baez JV(1), Althoff 
KN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
(2)Department of Health Policy and Management, UCLA Fielding School of Public 
Health, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.

Life expectancy (LE) is a core measure of population health. Studies have 
confirmed the predictive importance of modifiable determinants on LE, but less 
is known about their association with LE change over time at the US county 
level. In addition, we explore the predictive association of LE change with 
COVID-19 mortality. We used a linear regression model to calculate county-level 
annual LE change from 2011 to 2016, and categorized LE change (≤-0.1 years 
change per year as decreasing, ≥0.1 years as increasing, otherwise no change). A 
multinomial regression model was used to determine the association between 
modifiable determinants of health indicators from the County Health Rankings and 
LE change. A Poisson regression model was used to evaluate the relationship 
between change in life expectancy and COVID-19 mortality through September 2021. 
Among 2943 counties, several modifiable determinants of health were 
significantly associated with odds of being in increasing LE or decreasing LE 
counties, including adult smoking, obesity, unemployment, and proportion of 
children in poverty. The presence of an increasing LE in 2011-2016, as compared 
to no change, was significantly associated with a 5% decrease in COVID-19 
mortality between 2019 and 2021 (β = 0.953, 95% CI: 0.943, 0.963). We 
demonstrated that change in LE at the county level is a useful metric for 
tracking public health progress, measuring the impact of public health 
initiatives, and gauging preparedness and vulnerability for future public health 
emergencies.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph191710672
PMCID: PMC9517827
PMID: 36078387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest to disclose.


847. J Clin Med. 2022 Aug 27;11(17):5029. doi: 10.3390/jcm11175029.

Susceptibility to Postoperative Changes in Music Appreciation in Elderly 
Cochlear Implant Recipients.

Chung JH(1), Kim MK(1), Heo DB(1), Lee JB(2), Choi JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Chungnam National 
University College of Medicine, 282 Munhwa-ro, Jung-gu, Daejeon 35015, Korea.
(2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Konyang University College of Medicine, 
Daejeon 35365, Korea.

With the rise in life expectancy and the consequent increase in the elderly 
population, the use of cochlear implants (CI) in elderly patients with hearing 
loss is also increasing. The aim of this study was to investigate whether music 
appreciation in elderly CI users differs from that of non-elderly users. 
Forty-nine adult CI recipients participated in the study, and the Korean version 
of the Music Background Questionnaire was utilized preoperatively and 
postoperatively to evaluate music appreciation. The changes between the 
preoperative and postoperative values were compared after categorizing the 
participants into a non-elderly group (<65 years; n = 31) and an elderly group 
(≥65 years; n = 18). When compared to the non-elderly group, the elderly 
individuals exhibited a significant decrease in music listening times, without a 
significant change in the genre of music listened to following CI surgery. 
Moreover, the elderly group demonstrated significant decreases in music 
appreciation scores in terms of music quality and music elements, perceiving 
music as less natural, less clear, and more complex. They also exhibited 
significant changes in scores with respect to perception of rhythm, melody, 
timbre, and lyrics. This susceptibility to postoperative changes in music 
appreciation among elderly CI users should be considered in surgical counseling 
and music training programs.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11175029
PMCID: PMC9457410
PMID: 36078959

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


848. Nutrients. 2022 Aug 27;14(17):3544. doi: 10.3390/nu14173544.

Associations of Nutrition-Related, Physical, and Social Factors and Their 
Combinations with Sarcopenia in Community-Dwelling Older Adults: Kashiwa Cohort 
Study.

Lyu W(1)(2), Tanaka T(1), Son BK(1)(3), Yoshizawa Y(1)(4), Akishita M(2), Iijima 
