
We report a rare case of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) in a 
28-year-old woman with breast cancer and with a history of polycystic ovary 
syndrome (PCOS) despite treatment with letrozole and gonadotropin-releasing 
hormone agonist (GnRH-a) triggering in a GnRH antagonist (GnRH-ant) protocol 
without the administration of any human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) for 
luteal-phase support. The patient, who underwent controlled ovarian syndrome 
(COS)-oocyte cryopreservation before chemotherapy, required hospitalization. 
Complete recovery was achieved after treatment with volume expanders, human 
albumin, and cabergoline. Based on our case and literature review, it is 
possible to establish that estradiol (E2) modulation with letrozole and GnRH-a 
triggering does not eliminate the risk of OHSS. Furthermore, it is advisable to 
postpone GnRH-a depot to minimize the risk of OHSS after the suspension of 
letrozole, following menstruation or at least 7-8 days after triggering. It 
would be desirable to identify high-risk patients, also on a genetic basis, in 
order to avoid delays in oncologic treatments that could strongly impact life 
expectancy.

Copyright © 2021 Iorio, Rovetto, Conforti, Carbone, Vallone, Cariati, Bagnulo, 
Di Girolamo, La Marca and Alviggi.

DOI: 10.3389/frph.2021.704153
PMCID: PMC9580822
PMID: 36303992

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The reviewer HF declared a 
past co-authorship with one of the authors AL to the handling Editor.


578. World J Gastroenterol. 2022 Oct 14;28(38):5515-5529. doi: 
10.3748/wjg.v28.i38.5515.

Gastrointestinal and liver disease in patients with schizophrenia: A narrative 
review.

Grant RK(1), Brindle WM(2), Donnelly MC(2), McConville PM(3), Stroud TG(3), 
Bandieri L(3), Plevris JN(2).

Author information:
(1)The Centre for Liver and Digestive Disorders, Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, EH16 4SA, United Kingdom. rebecca.x.grant@nhs.scot.
(2)The Centre for Liver and Digestive Disorders, Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, EH16 4SA, United Kingdom.
(3)General Adult Psychiatry, Royal Edinburgh Hospital, Edinburgh, EH10 5HF, 
United Kingdom.

Schizophrenia is a severe mental illness which can have a devastating impact on 
an individual's quality of life. Comorbidities are high amongst patients and 
life expectancy is approximately 15 years less than the general population. 
Despite the well-known increased mortality, little is known about the impact of 
gastrointestinal and liver disease on patients with schizophrenia. We aimed to 
review the literature and to make recommendations regarding future care. 
Literature searches were performed on PubMed to identify studies related to 
gastrointestinal and liver disease in patients with schizophrenia. High rates of 
chronic liver disease were reported, with Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease 
being of particular concern; antipsychotics and metabolic syndrome were 
contributing factors. Rates of acute liver failure were low but have been 
associated with antipsychotic use and paracetamol overdose. Coeliac disease has 
historically been linked to schizophrenia; however, recent research suggests 
that a causal link is yet to be proven. Evidence is emerging regarding the 
relationships between schizophrenia and peptic ulcer disease, inflammatory bowel 
disease and irritable bowel syndrome; clinical vigilance regarding these 
conditions should be high. Patients with schizophrenia poorly engage with bowel 
cancer screening programmes, leading to late diagnosis and increased mortality. 
Clozapine induced constipation is a significant issue for many patients and 
requires close monitoring. There is a significant burden of gastrointestinal and 
liver disease amongst patients with schizophrenia. Better levels of support from 
all members of the medical team are essential to ensure that appropriate, timely 
care is provided.

©The Author(s) 2022. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v28.i38.5515
PMCID: PMC9594005
PMID: 36304087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: There are no 
conflicts of interest to report.


579. iScience. 2022 Oct 3;25(11):105266. doi: 10.1016/j.isci.2022.105266.
eCollection  2022 Nov 18.

Cytoplasmic and mitochondrial aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases differentially regulate 
lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Zheng T(1), Luo Q(1), Han C(1), Zhou J(1), Gong J(1)(2), Chun L(1), Xu XZS(2), 
Liu J(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science and Technology, Key Laboratory of Molecular 
Biophysics of MOE, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei 
430074, China.
(2)Life Sciences Institute and Department of Molecular and Integrative 
Physiology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA.

Reducing the rate of translation promotes longevity in multiple organisms, 
representing a conserved mechanism for lifespan extension. Aminoacyl-tRNA 
synthetases (ARSs) catalyze the loading of amino acids to their cognate tRNAs, 
thereby playing an essential role in translation. Mutations in ARS genes are 
associated with various human diseases. However, little is known about the role 
of ARSs in aging, particularly whether and how these genes regulate lifespan. 
Here, using Caenorhabditis elegans as a model, we systematically characterized 
the role of all three types of ARS genes in lifespan regulation, including 
mitochondrial, cytoplasmic, and cyto-mito bifunctional ARS genes. We found that, 
as expected, RNAi knockdown of mitochondrial ARS genes extended lifespan. 
Surprisingly, knocking down cytoplasmic or cyto-mito bifunctional ARS genes 
shortened lifespan, though such treatment reduced the rate of translation. These 
results reveal opposing roles of mitochondrial and cytoplasmic ARSs in lifespan 
regulation, demonstrating that inhibiting translation may not always extend 
lifespan.

© 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2022.105266
PMCID: PMC9593246
PMID: 36304099

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


580. Front Public Health. 2022 Oct 11;10:1015902. doi:
10.3389/fpubh.2022.1015902.  eCollection 2022.

Regional burden of chronic kidney disease in North Africa and Middle East during 
1990-2019; Results from Global Burden of Disease study 2019.

Tabatabaei-Malazy O(1)(2), Saeedi Moghaddam S(1), Khashayar P(3)(4), Keykhaei 
M(1)(5), Tehrani YS(1), Malekpour MR(1), Esfahani Z(1)(6), Rashidi MM(1), 
Golestani A(1), Shobeiri P(1), Moghimi M(1), Gorgani F(1), Abdolhamidi E(1), 
Farzadfar F(1)(2), Larijani B(2).

Author information:
(1)Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Population Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(2)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Clinical Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(3)Osteoporosis Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism Population 
Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Center for Microsystems Technology, Imec and Ghent University, Gent, Belgium.
(5)Feinberg School of Medicine, Feinberg Cardiovascular Research Institute, 
Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, United States.
(6)Department of Biostatistics, University of Social Welfare and Rehabilitation 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

OBJECTIVES: Updating burden data of chronic kidney disease (CKD) as one of the 
most prevalent non-communicable diseases is essential for proper provision of 
healthcare by policymakers. We aimed to estimate the burden of CKD and its 
attributed burden in North Africa and Middle East region (NAME) during 
1990-2019.
METHODS: The CKD-related Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2019 estimates were 
extracted from Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) website.
RESULTS: In 2019, 2,034,879 new CKD cases (95% Uncertainty interval 1,875,830 to 
2,202,724) with an age-standardized incidence rate of 447.5 (415.1 to 482.8) per 
100,000 was reported, showing a 70.9% increase in the past 30 years. CKD led to 
111,812 deaths (96,421 to 130,853) with an age-standardized rate of 30.4 (26.3 
to 35.4) per 100,000. The highest increase and decrease in the mortality rate 
were estimated in Morocco 21.8% (-8.9 to 51.6) and Kuwait -41.5% (-51.2 to 
-29.1). In 2019, CKD was responsible for 744.4 (646.1 to 851.8) age-standardized 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), mostly contributed to "other and 
unspecified causes" [237.2 (191.1 to 288.4)], type 2 diabetes [205.9 (162.4 to 
253.6)], and hypertension [203.3 (165.8 to 243)]. An increase was noted in DALYs 
from ages 25-29 and surged with an accelerating pattern by age. Kidney 
dysfunction, high systolic blood pressure, and high body mass index ranked as 
the top three risk factors for the disorder.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study raised an alarm regarding the increasing CKD burden in 
NAME. There is an urgency to deal with hypertension and overweight/obesity at 
the primary care level, implementing CKD screening for at-risk groups, and 
facilitating the accessibility to appropriate treatments.

Copyright © 2022 Tabatabaei-Malazy, Saeedi Moghaddam, Khashayar, Keykhaei, 
Tehrani, Malekpour, Esfahani, Rashidi, Golestani, Shobeiri, Moghimi, Gorgani, 
Abdolhamidi, Farzadfar and Larijani.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.1015902
PMCID: PMC9592811
PMID: 36304241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


581. Front Public Health. 2022 Oct 11;10:983423. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.983423. 
eCollection 2022.

Potential productivity loss from uncorrected and under-corrected presbyopia in 
low- and middle-income countries: A life table modeling study.

Ma Q(1), Chen M(1), Li D(1), Zhou R(1), Du Y(1), Yin S(1), Chen B(1), Wang H(1), 
Jiang J(1), Guan Z(1), Qiu K(1).

Author information:
(1)Joint Shantou International Eye Center of Shantou University and the Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Shantou, Guangdong, China.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the burden of potential productivity losses due to 
uncorrected and under-corrected presbyopia in LMICs among the working-age 
population in both the cross-sectional and longitudinal manner.
METHODS: We extracted data for the prevalence of presbyopia from the Global 
Burden of Diseases (GBD), Injuries, and Risk Factors Study 2019. Data for the 
gross domestic product (GDP) per capita were extracted from the World Bank 
database and Central Intelligence Agency's World Factbook. We introduced life 
table models to construct age cohorts (in 5-year age groups) of the working-age 
population (aged from 40 to 64 years old) in LMICs, with simulated follow-up 
until 65 years old in people with and without uncorrected presbyopia. The 
differences in productivity-adjusted life years (PALYs) lived and productivity 
between these two cohorts were calculated. The potential productivity loss was 
estimated based on GDP per capita. The WHO standard 3% annual discount rate was 
applied to all years of life and PALYs lived.
RESULTS: In 2019, there were 238.40 million (95% confidence interval [CI]: 
150.92-346.78 million) uncorrected and under-corrected presbyopia cases in 
LMICs, resulting in 54.13 billion (current US dollars) (95% confidence interval 
[CI]: 34.34-79.02 billion) potential productivity losses. With simulated 
follow-up until retirement, those with uncorrected and under-corrected 
presbyopia were predicted to experience an additional loss of 155 million PALYs 
(an average loss of 0.7 PALYs per case), which was equivalent to a total loss of 
US$ 315 billion (an average loss of US$ 1453.72 per person).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings highlight the considerable productivity losses due to 
uncorrected and under-corrected presbyopia in LMICs, especially in a 
longitudinal manner. There is a great need for the development of enabling eye 
care policies and programs to create access to eye care services, and more 
healthcare investment in the correction of presbyopia in the working-age 
population in LMICs. This study could provide evidences for some potential 
health-related strategies for socio-economic development.

Copyright © 2022 Ma, Chen, Li, Zhou, Du, Yin, Chen, Wang, Jiang, Guan and Qiu.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.983423
PMCID: PMC9592832
PMID: 36304252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


582. Front Bioinform. 2022 Mar 4;2:811053. doi: 10.3389/fbinf.2022.811053. 
eCollection 2022.

Don't Be Fooled by Randomness: Valid p-Values for Single Molecule Microscopy.

Schneider MC(1), Schütz GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Applied Physics, TU Wien, Vienna, Austria.

The human mind shows extraordinary capability at recognizing patterns, while at 
the same time tending to underestimate the natural scope of random processes. 
Taken together, this easily misleads researchers in judging whether the observed 
characteristics of their data are of significance or just the outcome of random 
effects. One of the best tools to assess whether observed features fall into the 
scope of pure randomness is statistical significance testing, which quantifies 
the probability to falsely reject a chosen null hypothesis. The central 
parameter in this context is the p-value, which can be calculated from the 
recorded data sets. In case of p-values smaller than the level of significance, 
the null hypothesis is rejected, otherwise not. While significance testing has 
found widespread application in many sciences including the life sciences, it is 
hardly used in (bio-)physics. We propose here that significance testing provides 
an important and valid addendum to the toolbox of quantitative (single molecule) 
biology. It allows to support a quantitative judgement (the hypothesis) about 
the data set with a probabilistic assessment. In this manuscript we describe 
ways for obtaining valid p-values in two selected applications of single 
molecule microscopy: (i) Nanoclustering in single molecule localization 
microscopy. Previously, we developed a method termed 2-CLASTA, which allows to 
calculate a valid p-value for the null hypothesis of an underlying random 
distribution of molecules of interest while circumventing overcounting issues. 
Here, we present an extension to this approach, yielding a single overall 
p-value for data pooled from multiple cells or experiments. (ii) Single molecule 
trajectories. Data from a single molecule trajectory are inherently correlated, 
thus prohibiting a direct analysis via conventional statistical tools. Here, we 
introduce a block permutation test, which yields a valid p-value for the 
analysis and comparison of single molecule trajectory data. We exemplify the 
approach based on FRET trajectories.

Copyright © 2022 Schneider  and Schütz .

DOI: 10.3389/fbinf.2022.811053
PMCID: PMC9580918
PMID: 36304307

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


583. Circ Rep. 2022 Sep 1;4(10):474-481. doi: 10.1253/circrep.CR-22-0048.
eCollection  2022 Oct 7.

Outcomes of Elderly Patients With Acute Myocardial Infarction and Heart Failure 
Who Undergo Percutaneous Coronary Intervention.

Nishihira K(1), Kuriyama N(1), Kadooka K(1), Honda Y(1), Yamamoto K(1), Nishino 
S(1), Ebihara S(1), Ogata K(1), Kimura T(1), Koiwaya H(1), Shibata Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Miyazaki Medical Association Hospital Miyazaki 
Japan.

Background: As life expectancy rises, percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) 
is being performed more frequently, even in elderly patients with acute 
myocardial infarction (AMI). This study evaluated outcomes of elderly patients 
with AMI complicated by heart failure (AMIHF), as defined by Killip Class ≥2 at 
admission, who undergo PCI. Methods and Results: We retrospectively analyzed 185 
patients with AMIHF aged ≥80 years (median age 85 years) who underwent PCI 
between 2009 and 2019. The median follow-up period was 572 days. The rates of 
in-hospital major bleeding (Bleeding Academic Research Consortium Type 3 or 5) 
and in-hospital all-cause mortality were 20.5% and 25.9%, respectively. The 
proportion of frail patients increased during hospitalization, from 40.6% at 
admission to 59.2% at discharge (P<0.01). The cumulative incidence of all-cause 
mortality was 36.3% at 1 year and 44.1% at 2 years. After adjusting for 
confounders, advanced age, Killip Class 4, final Thrombolysis in Myocardial 
Infarction flow grade <3, and longer door-to-balloon time were associated with 
higher mortality, whereas higher left ventricular ejection fraction and cardiac 
rehabilitation were associated with lower mortality (all P<0.05). Progression of 
frailty during hospitalization was an independent risk factor for long-term 
mortality in hospital survivors (P<0.01). Conclusions: The management of 
patients with AMIHF aged ≥80 years who undergo PCI remains challenging, with 
high rates of in-hospital major bleeding, frailty progression, and mortality.

Copyright © 2022, THE JAPANESE CIRCULATION SOCIETY.

DOI: 10.1253/circrep.CR-22-0048
PMCID: PMC9535130
PMID: 36304433

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


584. Clinicoecon Outcomes Res. 2022 Oct 18;14:665-682. doi: 10.2147/CEOR.S370311.
 eCollection 2022.

The Cost of Neurodevelopmental Disability: Scoping Review of Economic Evaluation 
Methods.

Kularatna S(1), Jadambaa A(1), Senanayake S(1), Brain D(1), Hawker N(2), 
Kasparian NA(3)(4), Abell B(1), Auld B(5), Eagleson K(5), Justo R(5), McPhail 
SM(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Australian Centre for Health Services Innovation and Centre for Healthcare 
Transformation, School of Public Health and Social Work, Queensland University 
of Technology, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(2)Metro South Health, Queensland Health, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(3)Cincinnati Children's Center for Heart Disease and Mental Health, Heart 
Institute and the Division of Behavioral Medicine and Clinical Psychology, 
Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(5)Queensland Paediatric Cardiac Service, Queensland Children's Hospital, 
Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(6)Digital Health and Informatics Directorate, Metro South Health, Brisbane, 
QLD, Australia.

The provision of effective care models for children with neurodevelopmental 
delay or disability can be challenging in resource constrained healthcare 
systems. Economic evaluations have an important role in informing resource 
allocation decisions. This review systematically examined the scope and methods 
of economic models evaluating interventions for supporting neurodevelopment 
among children with common neurodevelopmental disorders and identified methods 
of economic models and presented policy implications. This scoping review 
employed the Arksey and O'Malley framework and aligned with the Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping 
Reviews (PRISMA-ScR). Four electronic databases were systematically searched to 
identify eligible model-based economic evaluations of neurodevelopmental care 
models published since 2000. The Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation 
Reporting Standards (CHEERS) checklist was used to assess quality of reporting. 
Data were systematically extracted, tabulated, and qualitatively synthesised 
across diagnostic categories. Searches identified 1431 unique articles. Twelve 
studies used a decision analytic model to evaluate care for neurodevelopmental 
disorders and were included in the review. Included studies focused on 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD, n=6), autism spectrum disorder 
(ASD, n=3), cerebral palsy (n=2), and dyslexia (n=1). The most used decision 
analytic modelling approach was a Markov model (n=6), followed by a decision 
tree (n=3), and a combination of decision tree and Markov model (n=3). Most 
studies (n=7) adopted a societal perspective for reporting costs. None of the 
reviewed studies modelled impact on families and caregivers. Four studies 
reported cost-savings, three identified greater quality of life, and three 
identified cost increases.

© 2022 Kularatna et al.

DOI: 10.2147/CEOR.S370311
PMCID: PMC9596191
PMID: 36304697

Conflict of interest statement: Dr Bridget Abell reports grants from MRFF 
(Australian Government Competitive Grant), during the conduct of the study. The 
authors report no other conflicts of interest in this work.


585. aBIOTECH. 2021 Apr 28;2(2):146-155. doi: 10.1007/s42994-021-00044-3.
eCollection  2021 Jun.

The involvement of the N-terminal PHR domain of Arabidopsis cryptochromes in 
mediating light signaling.

Wang W(1), Mao Z(1), Guo T(1), Kou S(1), Yang HQ(1).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Plant Molecular Sciences, College of Life 
Sciences, Shanghai Normal University, Shanghai, 200234 China.

Light is a key environmental cue that fundamentally regulates all aspects of 
plant growth and development, which is mediated by the multiple photoreceptors 
including the blue light photoreceptors cryptochromes (CRYs). In Arabidopsis, 
there are two well-characterized homologous CRYs, CRY1 and CRY2. Whereas CRYs 
are flavoproteins, they lack photolyase activity and are characterized by an 
N-terminal photolyase-homologous region (PHR) domain and a C-terminal extension 
domain. It has been established that the C-terminal extension domain of CRYs is 
involved in mediating light signaling through direct interactions with the 
master negative regulator of photomorphogenesis, COP1. Recent studies have 
revealed that the N-terminal PHR domain of CRYs is also involved in mediating 
light signaling. In this review, we mainly summarize and discuss the recent 
advances in CRYs signaling mediated by the N-terminal PHR domain, which involves 
the N-terminal PHR domain-mediated dimerization/oligomerization of CRYs and 
physical interactions with the pivotal transcription regulators in light and 
phytohormone signaling.

© Agricultural Information Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences 
2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s42994-021-00044-3
PMCID: PMC9590466
PMID: 36304752

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declared that 
they have no conflicts of interest to this work.


586. J Nutr Sci. 2022 Sep 9;11:e74. doi: 10.1017/jns.2022.72. eCollection 2022.

Enhanced bioavailability and pharmacokinetics of a novel hybrid-hydrogel 
formulation of fisetin orally administered in healthy individuals: a randomised 
double-blinded comparative crossover study.

Krishnakumar IM(1), Jaja-Chimedza A(2), Joseph A(1), Balakrishnan A(1), Maliakel 
B(1), Swick A(2).

Author information:
(1)R & D Centre Akay Natural Ingredients, Ambunad, Malaidamthuruth P. O., 
Cochin, Kerala 683561, India.
(2)Life Extension, 3600 W Commercial Blvd, Fort Lauderdale, FL 33309, USA.

Fisetin, a polyphenol found in several fruits and vegetables, has shown 
potential health benefits in many pre-clinical studies for neuroprotection, 
cardioprotection, chemoprevention, diabetes, inflammation and oxidative stress. 
However, the clinical effectiveness of fisetin may be limited by its poor 
bioavailability when ingested. Using a novel green technology of 
Hybrid-FENUMAT™, a food-grade fisetin formulation (FF-20) was developed through 
encapsulation of fisetin micelles into fenugreek galactomannan (FG) hydrogel 
scaffold to improve its physical characteristics and bioavailability. This is 
the first human pharmacokinetic study of fisetin following a single-dose, 
comparative, double-blinded, cross-over protocol, supplementing with FF-20 and 
unformulated fisetin (UF). Fifteen healthy volunteers were given a single dose 
of 1000 mg UF or 1000 mg FF-20 (delivering 192 mg fisetin) with a 10-d washout 
period between each dose. Blood samples were taken at 0⋅5, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8 and 12 
h after both days of supplementation to quantify fisetin and geraldol, an active 
metabolite. The plasma concentration of fisetin when individuals consumed FF-20 
was 26⋅9-fold greater than UF as determined by the area under the curve over 12 
h [AUC0–12 h (FF-20) = 341⋅4 v. AUC0–12 h (UF) = 12⋅67]. The maximum plasma 
concentration (Cmax) was also more than twenty-three times higher when 
supplemented with FF-20 (238⋅2 ng/ml) compared to UF (9⋅97 ng/ml). The 
encapsulation also reduced the amount of conversion of fisetin to geraldol. No 
adverse events were reported during the study. Therefore, the encapsulation of 
fisetin into FG dietary fibre hydrogel scaffold could improve its delivery and 
bioavailability in human subjects.

[Figure: see text]

DOI: 10.1017/jns.2022.72
PMCID: PMC9574875
PMID: 36304817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. AIDS. 2022 Nov 15;36(14):2025-2034. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000003347. Epub
2022  Aug 10.

Impact and cost-effectiveness of non-governmental organizations on the HIV 
epidemic in Ukraine among MSM.

Trickey A(1), Walker JG(1), Bivegete S(1)(2), Semchuk N(3), Saliuk T(3), 
Varetska O(3), Stone J(1)(2), Vickerman P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Population Health Sciences, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(2)NIHR Health Protection Research Unit in Behavioural Science and Evaluation at 
University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(3)Alliance for Public Health, Kiev, Ukraine.

OBJECTIVE: Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in Ukraine have provided HIV 
testing, treatment, and condom distribution for MSM. HIV prevalence among MSM in 
Ukraine is 5.6%. We estimated the impact and cost-effectiveness of MSM-targeted 
NGO activities in Ukraine.
DESIGN: A mathematical model of HIV transmission among MSM was calibrated to 
data from Ukraine (2011-2018).
METHODS: The model, designed before the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, 
evaluated the impact of 2018 status quo coverage levels of 28% of MSM being NGO 
clients over 2016-2020 and 2021-2030 compared with no NGO activities over these 
time periods. Impact was measured in HIV incidence and infections averted. We 
compared the costs and disability adjusted life years (DALYs) for the status quo 
and a counterfactual scenario (no NGOs 2016-2020, but with NGOs thereafter) 
until 2030 to estimate the mean incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (cost per 
DALY averted).
RESULTS: Without NGO activity over 2016-2020, the HIV incidence in 2021 would 
have been 44% (95% credibility interval: 36-59%) higher than with status quo 
levels of NGO activity, with 25% (21-30%) more incident infections occurring 
over 2016-2020. Continuing with status quo NGO coverage levels will decrease HIV 
incidence by 41% over 2021-2030, whereas it will increase by 79% (60-120%) with 
no NGOs over this period and 37% (30-51%) more HIV infections will occur. 
Compared with if NGO activities had ceased over 2016-2020 (but continued 
thereafter), the status quo scenario averts 14 918 DALYs over 2016-2030 with a 
mean incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of US$600.15 per DALY averted.
CONCLUSION: MSM-targeted NGOs in Ukraine have prevented considerable HIV 
infections and are highly cost-effective compared with a willingness-to-pay 
threshold of 50% of Ukraine's 2018 GDP (US$1548).

Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000003347
PMCID: PMC7613764
PMID: 36305181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Ugeskr Laeger. 2022 Oct 17;184(42):V03220216.

Epidemiological aspects of obesity and the metabolic syndrome.

[Article in Danish]

Gribsholt SB(1)(2), Bruun JM(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Nationalt Center for Overvægt.
(2)Hormon- og Knoglesygdomme, Aarhus Universitetshospital.
(3)Steno Diabetes Center Aarhus, Aarhus Universitetshospital.
(4)Institut for Klinisk Medicin, Health, Aarhus Universitet.

The prevalence of obesity increases rapidly, in all ages and in all social 
classes. Epidemiological studies have documented that obesity have large 
long-term consequences, even in children, including development of metabolic 
syndrome and other obesity-associated comorbidities (i.e. diabetes mellitus type 
2, cancer and cardiovascular diseases) which may largely impact the person's 
health, life expectancy, and quality of life. As summarised in this review, 
epidemiological studies add to our knowledge on comorbidities associated with 
obesity, the prognosis, and the prevalence of obesity over time.

PMID: 36305258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Drugs Today (Barc). 2022 Oct;58(10):479-489. doi: 
10.1358/dot.2022.58.10.3441853.

Asciminib in chronic myeloid leukemia.

Assanto GM(1), Scalzulli E(1), Breccia M(2).

Author information:
(1)Hematology, Department of Translational and Precision Medicine, Az. 
Policlinico Umberto I-Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(2)Hematology, Department of Translational and Precision Medicine, Az. 
Policlinico Umberto I-Sapienza University, Rome, Italy. breccia@bce.uniroma1.it.

Despite the fact that, in the last years, life expectancy of chronic myeloid 
leukemia (CML) patients has reached that of the normal population, a significant 
proportion of CML patients is likely to fail treatment with first- or 
second-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Failure to first-line 
treatment is commonly due to molecular resistance or unbearable toxicity. New 
specific compounds are tested in this setting to fulfill this unmet clinical 
need in CML; of these, asciminib has shown efficacy based on allosteric 
inhibition which allows to overcome resistance and off-target toxicity. This 
review aims to cover how asciminib will change the therapeutic scenario of CML, 
highlighting its mechanism of action, pharmacokinetics, efficacy and toxicity. 
Asciminib will be a possible option as third-line therapy for patients carrying 
resistant mutations, such as T315I, and/or not eligible for treatment with other 
TKIs.

Copyright 2022 Clarivate.

DOI: 10.1358/dot.2022.58.10.3441853
PMID: 36305542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Biochem Soc Trans. 2022 Oct 31;50(5):1389-1402. doi: 10.1042/BST20220519.

Fundamental roles for inter-organelle communication in aging.

Donahue EKF(1), Ruark EM(1), Burkewitz K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Vanderbilt University, 
Nashville, TN, U.S.A.

Advances in public health have nearly doubled life expectancy over the last 
century, but this demographic shift has also changed the landscape of human 
illness. Today, chronic and age-dependent diseases dominate the leading causes 
of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Targeting the underlying molecular, 
genetic and cell biological drivers of the aging process itself appears to be an 
increasingly viable strategy for developing therapeutics against these diseases 
of aging. Towards this end, one of the most exciting developments in cell 
biology over the last decade is the explosion of research into organelle contact 
sites and related mechanisms of inter-organelle communication. Identification of 
the molecular mediators of inter-organelle tethering and signaling is now 
allowing the field to investigate the consequences of aberrant organelle 
interactions, which frequently seem to correlate with age-onset pathophysiology. 
This review introduces the major cellular roles for inter-organelle 
interactions, including the regulation of organelle morphology, the transfer of 
ions, lipids and other metabolites, and the formation of hubs for nutrient and 
stress signaling. We explore how these interactions are disrupted in aging and 
present findings that modulation of inter-organelle communication is a promising 
avenue for promoting longevity. Through this review, we propose that the 
maintenance of inter-organelle interactions is a pillar of healthy aging. 
Learning how to target the cellular mechanisms for sensing and controlling 
inter-organelle communication is a key next hurdle for geroscience.

© 2022 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1042/BST20220519
PMCID: PMC9704535
PMID: 36305642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no competing 
interests associated with the manuscript.


591. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2022 Oct 28;79(11):571. doi: 10.1007/s00018-022-04581-y.

Structure and function of the N-terminal extension of the formin INF2.

Labat-de-Hoz L(1), Comas L(2), Rubio-Ramos A(1), Casares-Arias J(1), 
Fernández-Martín L(1), Pantoja-Uceda D(2), Martín MT(3), Kremer L(3), Jiménez 
MA(2), Correas I(1)(4), Alonso MA(5).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Biología Molecular (CBM) Severo Ochoa, Consejo Superior de 
Investigaciones Científicas and Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 28049, Madrid, 
Spain.
(2)Instituto de Química Física Rocasolano (IQFR), Consejo Superior de 
Investigaciones Científicas, 28006, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Centro Nacional de Biotecnología (CNB), Consejo Superior de Investigaciones 
Científicas, 28049, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Department of Molecular Biology, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid (UAM), 28049, 
Madrid, Spain.
(5)Centro de Biología Molecular (CBM) Severo Ochoa, Consejo Superior de 
Investigaciones Científicas and Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 28049, Madrid, 
Spain. maalonso@cbm.csic.es.

In INF2-a formin linked to inherited renal and neurological disease in 
humans-the DID is preceded by a short N-terminal extension of unknown structure 
and function. INF2 activation is achieved by Ca2+-dependent association of 
calmodulin (CaM). Here, we show that the N-terminal extension of INF2 is 
organized into two α-helices, the first of which is necessary to maintain the 
perinuclear F-actin ring and normal cytosolic F-actin content. Biochemical 
assays indicated that this helix interacts directly with CaM and contains the 
sole CaM-binding site (CaMBS) detected in INF2. The residues W11, L14 and L18 of 
INF2, arranged as a 1-4-8 motif, were identified as the most important residues 
for the binding, W11 being the most critical of the three. This motif is 
conserved in vertebrate INF2 and in the human population. NMR and biochemical 
analyses revealed that CaM interacts directly through its C-terminal lobe with 
the INF2 CaMBS. Unlike control cells, INF2 KO cells lacked the perinuclear 
F-actin ring, had little cytosolic F-actin content, did not respond to increased 
Ca2+ concentrations by making more F-actin, and maintained the transcriptional 
cofactor MRTF predominantly in the cytoplasm. Whereas expression of intact INF2 
restored all these defects, INF2 with inactivated CaMBS did not. Our study 
reveals the structure of the N-terminal extension, its interaction with 
Ca2+/CaM, and its function in INF2 activation.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-022-04581-y
PMCID: PMC9616786
PMID: 36306014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


592. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2022 Dec;34(12):2963-2976. doi:
10.1007/s40520-022-02257-y.  Epub 2022 Oct 28.

SIRT1 activation and its circadian clock control: a promising approach against 
(frailty in) neurodegenerative disorders.

Ribeiro RFN(1)(2)(3), Pereira D(1)(2), de Almeida LP(#)(4)(5)(6), Silva 
MMC(#)(7)(8)(9), Cavadas C(#)(10)(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Cell Biology (CNC), University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal.
(2)Centre for Innovation in Biomedicine and Biotechnology (CIBB), University of 
Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(4)Centre for Neuroscience and Cell Biology (CNC), University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal. luispa@cnc.uc.pt.
(5)Centre for Innovation in Biomedicine and Biotechnology (CIBB), University of 
Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. luispa@cnc.uc.pt.
(6)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. 
luispa@cnc.uc.pt.
(7)Centre for Neuroscience and Cell Biology (CNC), University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal. msilva@ff.uc.pt.
(8)Centre for Innovation in Biomedicine and Biotechnology (CIBB), University of 
Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. msilva@ff.uc.pt.
(9)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. 
msilva@ff.uc.pt.
(10)Centre for Neuroscience and Cell Biology (CNC), University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal. ccavadas@uc.pt.
(11)Centre for Innovation in Biomedicine and Biotechnology (CIBB), University of 
Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. ccavadas@uc.pt.
(12)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. 
ccavadas@uc.pt.
(#)Contributed equally

With the increase in life expectancy, the incidence of neurodegenerative 
disorders and their impact worldwide has been increasing in recent years. 
Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
and Huntington's disease, have complex and varied mechanisms of pathogenesis. 
Importantly, they share the common feature of disrupted circadian rhythms. This 
hallmark is believed to underlie the symptoms of such diseases and even 
potentially contribute to their onset. In addition, the association of physical 
frailty with dementia and neurodegenerative disorders has been demonstrated. In 
fact, frail persons are 8 times more likely to have some form of dementia and 
population studies report a significant prevalence for frailty in older patients 
with AD and PD. SIRT1 regulates the acetylation status of clock components and 
controls circadian amplitude of clock genes. However, the mechanisms responsible 
for this circadian clock control have been the subject of contradictory 
findings. Importantly, the activation of SIRT1 has been shown to have very 
relevant therapeutic potential against neurodegeneration. Nevertheless, few 
studies have attempted to connect the therapeutic reestablishing of SIRT1 as an 
approach against circadian disruption in neurodegenerative diseases. In this 
review, we address: circadian rhythms as an important early biomarker of 
neurodegenerative disorders; mechanisms for SIRT1 activation and the novel 
sirtuin-activating compounds (STACs); SIRT1 circadian paradox and subsequent 
studies in an unprecedented way in the literature; the beneficial role of SIRT1 
activation in neurodegeneration; innovative proposals of how circadian-based 
interventions (e.g., SIRT1 activators) may become an important therapeutic 
approach against neurodegenerative disorders and how non-pharmacologic 
interventions (e.g., Mediterranean-style diet) might help in the prevention 
and/or treatment of these high-burden disorders, while tackling frailty and 
enhancing robustness.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40520-022-02257-y
PMID: 36306110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2023 Jan;35(1):167-175. doi: 10.1007/s40520-022-02270-1.
 Epub 2022 Oct 28.

Association between Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) protocol, risk 
factors and 3-year survival after colorectal surgery for cancer in the elderly.

Tidadini F(1)(2), Trilling B(1)(3), Quesada JL(4), Foote A(1), Sage PY(1), Bonne 
A(1), Arvieux C(1)(2), Faucheron JL(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Digestive and Emergency Surgery, Grenoble Alpes University 
Hospital, Grenoble, France.
(2)Lyon Center for Innovation in Cancer, EA 3738, Lyon 1 University, Lyon, 
France.
(3)University Grenoble Alpes, UMR 5525, CNRS, TIMC-IMAG, Grenoble, France.
(4)Clinical Pharmacology Unit, INSERM CIC1406, Grenoble Alpes University 
Hospital, Grenoble, France.
(5)Department of Digestive and Emergency Surgery, Grenoble Alpes University 
Hospital, Grenoble, France. JLFaucheron@chu-grenoble.fr.
(6)University Grenoble Alpes, UMR 5525, CNRS, TIMC-IMAG, Grenoble, France. 
JLFaucheron@chu-grenoble.fr.

INTRODUCTION: As life expectancy is currently growing, more elderly and fragile 
patients need colorectal resection for cancer. We sought to assess the link 
between enhanced rehabilitation after surgery (ERAS), risk factors and overall 
survival at 3 years, in patients aged 65 and over.
METHODS: Between 2005 and 2017, all patients undergoing colorectal resection for 
cancer were included. Overall survival at 3 years was compared for patients 
treated in following ERAS guidelines compared to conventional treatment 
(pre-ERAS).
RESULTS: 661 patients were included (ERAS, n = 325; pre-ERAS, n = 336). The 
3-year overall survival rate was significantly better regardless of age for ERAS 
vs pre-ERAS patients (73.1% vs 64.4%; p = 0.016). With overall survival rates of 
83.2% vs 73.8%, 65.4% vs 62.8% and 59.6% vs 40% for the age bands 65-74, 75-84 
and ≥ 85 years. The analysis of survival at 3 years by a multivariate Cox model 
identified ERAS as a protective factor with a reduction in the risk of death of 
30% (HR = 0.70 [0.50-0.94], p = 0017) independently of other identified risk 
factors: age bands, ASA score > 2, smoking, atrial fibrillation and abdominal 
surgery. This result is confirmed by an analysis of the propensity score 
(HR = 0.67 [0.47-0.97], p = 0.032).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows that ERAS is associated with better 3-year survival 
in patients undergoing colorectal resection for cancer, independent of risk 
factors. The practice of ERAS is effective and should be offered to patients 
aged 65 and over.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40520-022-02270-1
PMID: 36306111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2022 Oct 28;16(10):e0010497. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pntd.0010497. eCollection 2022 Oct.

Factors associated with variation in single-dose albendazole pharmacokinetics: A 
systematic review and modelling analysis.

Whittaker C(1)(2), Chesnais CB(3), Pion SDS(3), Kamgno J(4), Walker M(2)(5), 
Basáñez MG(1)(2), Boussinesq M(3).

Author information:
(1)MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis, Department of Infectious 
Disease Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Imperial College London, London, 
United Kingdom.
(2)London Centre for Neglected Tropical Disease Research, Department of 
Infectious Disease Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Imperial College 
London, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Recherches Translationnelles sur le VIH et les Maladies Infectieuses 
(TransVIHMI), University of Montpellier, Institut de Recherche pour le 
Développement (IRD), Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale 
(INSERM), Montpellier, France.
(4)Centre for Research on Filariasis & other Tropical Diseases, and Faculty of 
Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, University of Yaoundé I, Yaoundé, Cameroon.
(5)Department of Pathobiology and Population Sciences, Royal Veterinary College, 
Hatfield, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Albendazole is an orally administered anti-parasitic medication with 
widespread usage in a variety of both programmatic and clinical contexts. 
Previous work has shown that the drug's pharmacologically active metabolite, 
albendazole sulfoxide, is characterised by substantial inter-individual 
pharmacokinetic variation. This variation might have implications for the 
efficacy of albendazole treatment, but current understanding of the factors 
associated with this variation remains incomplete.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We carried out a systematic review to identify 
references containing temporally disaggregated data on the plasma concentration 
of albendazole and/or (its pharmacologically-active metabolite) albendazole 
sulfoxide following a single oral dose. These data were then integrated into a 
mathematical modelling framework to infer albendazole sulfoxide pharmacokinetic 
parameters and relate them to characteristics of the groups being treated. These 
characteristics included age, weight, sex, dosage, infection status, and whether 
patients had received a fatty meal prior to treatment or other drugs alongside 
albendazole. Our results highlight a number of factors systematically associated 
with albendazole sulfoxide pharmacokinetic variation including age, existing 
parasitic infection and receipt of a fatty meal. Age was significantly 
associated with variation in albendazole sulfoxide systemic availability and 
peak plasma concentration achieved; as well as the clearance rate (related to 
the half-life) after adjusting for variation in dosage due to differences in 
body weight between children and adults. Receipt of a fatty meal prior to 
treatment was associated with increased albendazole sulfoxide systemic 
availability (and by extension, peak plasma concentration and total albendazole 
sulfoxide exposure following the dose). Parasitic infection (particularly 
echinococcosis) was associated with altered pharmacokinetic parameters, with 
infected populations displaying distinct characteristics to uninfected ones.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: These results highlight the extensive inter-individual 
variation that characterises albendazole sulfoxide pharmacokinetics and provide 
insight into some of the factors associated with this variation.

Copyright: © 2022 Whittaker et al. This is an open access article distributed 
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0010497
PMCID: PMC9662735
PMID: 36306320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


595. Gait Posture. 2022 Oct;98:343-354. doi: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2022.09.082. Epub
 2022 Sep 26.

Effectiveness of robotic exoskeletons for improving gait in children with 
cerebral palsy: A systematic review.

Hunt M(1), Everaert L(2), Brown M(3), Muraru L(4), Hatzidimitriadou E(5), 
Desloovere K(6).

Author information:
(1)Section of Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Science, School of Psychology 
and Life Sciences, Canterbury Christ Church University, North Holmes Road 
Campus, Canterbury, Kent CT1 1QU, UK. Electronic address: 
markus.hunt2@canterbury.ac.uk.
(2)Clinical Motion Analysis Laboratory, University Hospital Leuven, Weligerveld 
1, 3212 Pellenberg, Belgium; Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Research 
Group for Neurorehabilitation (eNRGy), KU Leuven, Tervuursevest 101, 3001 
Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: laure.everaert@kuleuven.be.
(3)Section of Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Science, School of Psychology 
and Life Sciences, Canterbury Christ Church University, North Holmes Road 
Campus, Canterbury, Kent CT1 1QU, UK. Electronic address: 
mathew.brown@canterbury.ac.uk.
(4)Mobilab & Care, Thomas More University of Applied Sciences, Kleinhoefstraat 
4, Geel, Belgium. Electronic address: luiza.muraru@thomasmore.be.
(5)Faculty of Medicine, Health and Social Care, Canterbury Christ Church 
University, North Holmes Road Campus, Canterbury, Kent CT1 1QU, UK. Electronic 
address: eleni.hatzidimitriadou@canterbury.ac.uk.
(6)Clinical Motion Analysis Laboratory, University Hospital Leuven, Weligerveld 
1, 3212 Pellenberg, Belgium; Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Research 
Group for Neurorehabilitation (eNRGy), KU Leuven, Tervuursevest 101, 3001 
Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: kaat.desloovere@uzleuven.be.

BACKGROUND: Robotic exoskeletons have been developed to assist locomotion and 
address gait abnormalities in children with cerebral palsy (CP). These wearable 
assistive devices provide powered assistance to the lower-extremity joints, as 
well as support and stability.
RESEARCH QUESTION: Does exoskeleton-assisted walking improve gait in children 
with CP?
METHODS: The PRISMA guidelines were used to conduct this systematic review. 
Articles were obtained in a search of the following electronic databases: 
Embase, CINAHL Complete, PubMed, Web of Science and MEDLINE. Studies 
investigating spatiotemporal, kinematic, kinetic, muscle activity and/or 
physiological parameters during exoskeleton-assisted walking in children with CP 
were included. All articles were assessed for methodological quality using an 
adapted version of the Quality Assessment Tool for Before-After (Pre-Post) 
Studies with No Control Group, provided by the National Institutes of Health 
(NIH).
RESULTS: Thirteen studies were included. They involved the use of the following 
exoskeletons: tethered knee exoskeleton, pediatric knee exoskeleton (P.REX), 
untethered ankle exoskeleton, WAKE-Up ankle module, WAKE-Up ankle & knee module 
and unilateral ankle exosuit. Methodological quality varied, with key 
limitations in sample size and allocated time to adapt to the exoskeleton. There 
was a consensus that robotic exoskeletons improve gait given careful 
optimisation of exoskeleton torque and sufficient exoskeleton practice time for 
each participant. Improvements in gait included reduced metabolic cost of 
walking, increased walking speed, and increased knee and hip extension during 
stance. Furthermore, exoskeletons with an actuated ankle module were shown to 
promote normal ankle rocker function.
SIGNIFICANCE: Robotic exoskeletons have the potential to improve the mobility of 
CP children and may therefore increase community participation and improve 
quality of life. Future work should involve larger controlled intervention 
studies utilising robotic exoskeletons to improve gait in children with CP. 
These studies should ensure sufficient exoskeleton practice time for each 
participant.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2022.09.082
PMID: 36306544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


596. Public Health. 2022 Nov;212:102-110. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2022.06.024. Epub
2022  Oct 25.

The association between sociodemographic status and COPD and asthma mortality, 
DALY and YLD in southern China, 2005-2015.

Liao TT(1), Guan WJ(2), Zheng YJ(3), Wang Y(4), Xiao N(4), Li C(4), Xu YJ(4), He 
ZX(4), Meng RL(5), Zheng XY(6), Lin LF(7).

Author information:
(1)Guangdong Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Guangdong, 
China; School of Medicine, Jinan University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, National Clinical Research 
Center for Respiratory Disease, Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory Health, First 
Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou Medical 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou, China.
(4)Guangdong Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Guangdong, 
China.
(5)Guangdong Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Guangdong, 
China. Electronic address: 931627747@qq.com.
(6)Guangdong Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Guangdong, 
China. Electronic address: zhengxueyan0205@163.com.
(7)Guangdong Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Guangdong, 
China; School of Medicine, Jinan University, Guangzhou, China. Electronic 
address: lifenglinGD@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the disease burden of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma in southern China.
METHOD: We calculated the mortality, disability-adjusted life-years (DALY), 
years lived with disability (YLD) and years of life lost (YLL) for COPD and 
asthma in Guangdong province between 2005 and 2015. We examined the significance 
of trends of mortality, DALY, YLD and YLL rates for COPD and asthma with the 
Cochran-Armitage trend test. We also analyzed their association with 
sociodemographic factors by negative binomial models.
RESULT: The age-standardized mortality, DALY, YLD and YLL rates of COPD and 
asthma decreased significantly in Guangdong, except for an increase of 11.3% in 
the age-standardized YLD rate of COPD between 2005 and 2015 (all P < 0.05). 
Compared with females, the respective adjusted mortality rate ratio of males was 
2.11 for COPD, and 0.74 for asthma. Compared with other regions, the richest 
region, Pearl River Delta, had the lowest mortality, DALY, YLD and YLL rate 
ratios (RR) of COPD and asthma (all P < 0.05). COPD and asthma mortality, DALY, 
YLD and YLL rates increased substantially with age. Specifically, when compared 
with the 25-49 years age group, the respective adjusted DALY RR of asthma was 
1.91, 2.02 and 22.21 for 0-24, 50-74 and ≥75 years age group; the respective 
adjusted YLD RR was 2.27, 1.33 and 7.17 for 0-24, 50-74 and ≥75 years age group.
CONCLUSIONS: Disease burden of COPD and asthma decreased in Guangdong province 
in southern China between 2005 and 2015; however, a disproportionate burden of 
COPD and asthma in terms of age, sex and regions was observed. The relatively 
