(CIBERESP), Avda Monforte de Lemos 3-5, 28029, Madrid, Spain.
(6)Escuela Andaluza de Salud Pública (EASP), Cuesta del Observatorio 4. Campus 
Universitario de Cartuja, 18011, Granada, Spain.
(7)Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria Ibs.Granada, 18012, Granada, Spain.
(8)Department of Preventive Medicine and Public Health, University of Granada, 
18071, Granada, Spain.
(9)The Danish Cancer Society Research Centre, Strandboulevarden 49, 2100, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(10)Institute for Nutrition Research, School of Medical and Health Sciences, 
Edith Cowan University, 270 Joondalup Dr, Perth, 6027, Australia.
(11)Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(12)International Agency for Research on Cancer, World Health Organization, 
Lyon, France.
(13)Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori di Milano, Via Venezian 1, 
20133, Milan, Italy.
(14)Unit of Cancer Epidemiology, Città della Salute e della Scienza 
University-Hospital, Via Santena 7, 10126, Turin, Italy.
(15)Department of Molecular Epidemiology, German Institute of Human Nutrition 
Potsdam-Rehbruecke (DIfE), Arthur-Scheunert-Allee 114-116, 14558, Nuthetal, 
Germany.
(16)German Center for Diabetes Research (DZD), Munich, Germany.
(17)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Institute for Cancer Research, Prevention and 
Clinical Network - ISPRO, Florence, Italy.
(18)Department of Epidemiology, Murcia Regional Health Council, Murcia, Spain.
(19)Research Group on Demography and Health, National Faculty of Public Health, 
Univesity of Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.
(20)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, UMC Utrecht, Trecht 
University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(21)Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden.
(22)Institute of Nutritional Science, University of Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany.
(23)Ubisoft France, Floresco, 2 Avenue Pasteur, 94160, Saint-Mandé, France.
(24)Navarra Public Health Institute, Pamplona, Spain.
(25)IdiSNA, Navarra Institute for Health Research, Pamplona, Spain.
(26)University of Granada, Granada, Spain.

The objective of this article was to assess the cost-effectiveness of screening 
strategies for cardiovascular diseases (CVD). A decision analytic model was 
constructed to estimate the costs and benefits of one-off screening strategies 
differentiated by screening age, sex and the threshold for initiating statin 
therapy ("uniform" or "age-adjusted") from the Spanish NHS perspective. The 
age-adjusted thresholds were configured so that the same number of people at 
high risk would be treated as under the uniform threshold. Health benefit was 
measured in quality-adjusted life years (QALY). Transition rates were estimated 
from the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition 
(EPIC-CVD), a large multicentre nested case-cohort study with 12 years of 
follow-up. Unit costs of primary care, hospitalizations and CVD care were taken 
from the Spanish health system. Univariate and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were employed. The comparator was no systematic screening program. The 
base case model showed that the most efficient one-off strategy is to screen 
both men and women at 40 years old using a uniform risk threshold for initiating 
statin treatment (Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio of €3,274/QALY and 
€6,085/QALY for men and women, respectively). Re-allocating statin treatment 
towards younger individuals at high risk for their age and sex would not offset 
the benefit obtained using those same resources to treat older individuals. 
Results are sensitive to assumptions about CVD incidence rates. To conclude, 
one-off screening for CVD using a uniform risk threshold appears cost-effective 
compared with no systematic screening. These results should be evaluated in 
clinical studies.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-022-01533-y
PMID: 36239877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. JAMA Netw Open. 2022 Oct 3;5(10):e2235912. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2022.35912.

Association of Neighborhood Conditions and Resources for Children With Life 
Expectancy at Birth in the US.

Shanahan KH(1)(2)(3), Subramanian SV(4), Burdick KJ(5), Monuteaux MC(2)(3), Lee 
LK(2)(3), Fleegler EW(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.
(2)Division of Emergency Medicine, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(4)Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Harvard T.H. Chan School of 
Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts.
(5)University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester.

Comment in
    JAMA Netw Open. 2022 Oct 3;5(10):e2235923.

IMPORTANCE: To address inequities in life expectancy, we must understand the 
associations of modifiable socioeconomic and structural factors with life 
expectancy. However, the association of limited neighborhood resources and 
deleterious physical conditions with life expectancy is not well understood.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the association of community social and economic 
conditions and resources for children with life expectancy at birth.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This cross-sectional study examined 
neighborhood child opportunity and life expectancy using data from residents of 
65 662 US Census tracts in 2015. The analysis was conducted from July 6 to 
October 1, 2021.
EXPOSURES: Neighborhood conditions and resources for children in 2015.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcome was life expectancy at birth at 
the Census tract level based on data from the US Small-Area Life Expectancy 
Estimates Project (January 1, 2010, to December 31, 2015). Neighborhood 
conditions and resources for children were quantified by Census tract Child 
Opportunity Index (COI) 2.0 scores for 2015. This index captures community 
conditions associated with children's health and long-term outcomes categorized 
into 5 levels, from very low to very high opportunity. It includes 29 indicators 
in 3 domains: education, health and environment, and social and economic 
factors. Mixed-effects and simple linear regression models were used to estimate 
the associations between standardized COI scores (composite and domain-specific) 
and life expectancy.
RESULTS: The study included residents from 65 662 of 73 057 US Census tracts 
(89.9%). Life expectancy at birth across Census tracts ranged from 56.3 years to 
93.6 years (mean [SD], 78.2 [4.0] years). Life expectancy in Census tracts with 
very low COI scores was lower than life expectancy in Census tracts with very 
high COI scores (-7.06 years [95% CI, -7.13 to -6.99 years]). Stepwise 
associations were observed between COI scores and life expectancy. For each 
domain, life expectancy was shortest in Census tracts with very low compared 
with very high COI scores (education: β = -2.02 years [95% CI, -2.12 to -1.92 
years]); health and environment: β = -2.30 years [95% CI, -2.41 to -2.20 years]; 
social and economic: β = -4.16 years [95% CI, -4.26 to -4.06 years]). The models 
accounted for 41% to 54% of variability in life expectancy at birth 
(R2 = 0.41-0.54).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this study, neighborhood conditions and resources 
for children were significantly associated with life expectancy at birth, 
accounting for substantial variability in life expectancy at the Census tract 
level. These findings suggest that community resources and conditions are 
important targets for antipoverty interventions and policies to improve life 
expectancy and address health inequities.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2022.35912
PMCID: PMC9568807
PMID: 36239940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None reported.


356. JAMA Netw Open. 2022 Oct 3;5(10):e2235923. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2022.35923.

Neighborhood Opportunity and Life Expectancy at Birth.

Bergmann KR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Children's Minnesota, 
Minneapolis.

Comment on
    JAMA Netw Open. 2022 Oct 3;5(10):e2235912.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2022.35923
PMID: 36239945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. PLoS One. 2022 Oct 14;17(10):e0275747. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0275747. 
eCollection 2022.

Digital phenotyping by wearable-driven artificial intelligence in older adults 
and people with Parkinson's disease: Protocol of the mixed method, cyclic 
ActiveAgeing study.

Torrado JC(1), Husebo BS(1)(2), Allore HG(3), Erdal A(1), Fæø SE(4), Reithe 
H(1), Førsund E(1), Tzoulis C(5)(6)(7), Patrascu M(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, 
Centre for Elderly and Nursing Home Medicine (SEFAS), University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway.
(2)Department of Nursing Home Medicine, Municipality of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(3)Yale School of Medicine and Yale School of Public Health, New Haven, CT, 
United States of America.
(4)Faculty of Health Studies, Department of Nursing, VID Specialized University, 
Bergen, Norway.
(5)Department of Neurology, Neuro-SysMed Center, Haukeland University Hospital, 
Bergen, Norway.
(6)K.G Jebsen Center for Translational Research in Parkinson's Disease, 
University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(7)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Active ageing is described as the process of optimizing health, 
empowerment, and security to enhance the quality of life in the rapidly growing 
population of older adults. Meanwhile, multimorbidity and neurological 
disorders, such as Parkinson's disease (PD), lead to global public health and 
resource limitations. We introduce a novel user-centered paradigm of ageing 
based on wearable-driven artificial intelligence (AI) that may harness the 
autonomy and independence that accompany functional limitation or disability, 
and possibly elevate life expectancy in older adults and people with PD.
METHODS: ActiveAgeing is a 4-year, multicentre, mixed method, cyclic study that 
combines digital phenotyping via commercial devices (Empatica E4, Fitbit Sense, 
and Oura Ring) with traditional evaluation (clinical assessment scales, in-depth 
interviews, and clinical consultations) and includes four types of participants: 
(1) people with PD and (2) their informal caregiver; (3) healthy older adults 
from the Helgetun living environment in Norway, and (4) people on the Helgetun 
waiting list. For the first study, each group will be represented by N = 15 
participants to test the data acquisition and to determine the sample size for 
the second study. To suggest lifestyle changes, modules for human expert-based 
advice, machine-generated advice, and self-generated advice from accessible data 
visualization will be designed. Quantitative analysis of physiological data will 
rely on digital signal processing (DSP) and AI techniques. The clinical 
assessment scales are the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), 
Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS), 
Geriatric Anxiety Inventory (GAI), Apathy Evaluation Scale (AES), and the REM 
Sleep Behaviour Disorder Screening Questionnaire (RBDSQ). A qualitative inquiry 
will be carried out with individual and focus group interviews and analysed 
using a hermeneutic approach including narrative and thematic analysis 
techniques.
DISCUSSION: We hypothesise that digital phenotyping is feasible to explore the 
ageing process from clinical and lifestyle perspectives including older adults 
and people with PD. Data is used for clinical decision-making by symptom 
tracking, predicting symptom evolution, and discovering new outcome measures for 
clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0275747
PMCID: PMC9565381
PMID: 36240173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


358. Eur J Public Health. 2023 Feb 3;33(1):114-120. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckac134.

Top and bottom longevity of nations: a retrospective analysis of the 
age-at-death distribution across 18 OECD countries.

Verguet S(1), Niwa M(1), Bolongaita S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard T.H. Chan School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Similar to the study of the distribution of income within countries, 
population-level health disparities can be examined by analyzing the 
distribution of age at death.
METHODS: We sourced period-specific death counts for 18 OECD countries over 
1900-2020 from the Human Mortality Database. We studied the evolution of 
country-year-specific distributions of age at death, with an examination of the 
lower and upper tails of these distributions. For each country-year, we 
extracted the 1st, 5th, 10th, 90th, 95th and 99th percentiles of the 
age-at-death distribution. We then computed the corresponding shares of 
longevity-the sum of the ages weighted by the age-at-death distribution as a 
fraction of the sum of the ages weighted by the distribution-for each 
percentile. For example, for the 10th percentile, this would correspond to how 
much longevity accrues to the bottom 10% of the age-at-death distribution in a 
given country-year.
RESULTS: We expose a characterization of the age-at-death distribution across 
populations with a focus on the lower and upper tails of the distribution. Our 
metrics, specifically the gap measures in age and share across the 10th and 90th 
percentiles of the distribution, enable a systematic comparison of national 
performances, which yields information supplementary to the cross-country 
differences commonly pointed by traditional indicators of life expectancy and 
coefficient of variation.
CONCLUSIONS: Examining the tails of age-at-death distributions can help 
characterize the comparative situations of the better- and worse-off individuals 
across nations, similarly to depictions of income distributions in economics.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckac134
PMCID: PMC10132764
PMID: 36240463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Lancet Glob Health. 2022 Nov;10(11):e1632-e1645. doi: 
10.1016/S2214-109X(22)00371-0.

The state of health in Indonesia's provinces, 1990-2019: a systematic analysis 
for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Indonesia Subnational Collaborators.

Collaborators: Mboi N, Syailendrawati R, Ostroff SM, Elyazar IR, Glenn SD, 
Rachmawati T, Nugraheni WP, Ali PB, Trisnantoro L, Adnani QES, Agustiya RI, 
Laksono AD, Aji B, Amalia L, Ansariadi A, Antriyandarti E, Ardani I, Ariningrum 
R, Aryastami NK, Djunaedi D, Efendi F, Fauk NK, Ghozali G, Handayani N, Harapan 
H, Hargono A, Harso AD, Ikawati HD, Indriasih E, Karlina K, Kosen S, Kusnali A, 
Kusuma D, Lumbantoruan M, Lusiana M, Martini S, Meilinda M, Mubasyiroh R, 
Musadad DA, Ningrum DNA, Nuraini S, Nurlaela N, Pangaribuan HU, Pawitaningtyas 
I, Purnomo A, Puspasari HW, Puspasari N, Rahmawaty S, Rangkuti H, Roosihermiatie 
B, Rosita T, Rustika R, Samodra YL, Samosir JV, Siswanto S, Smith KH, Sudaryanto 
A, Sugianto S, Suparmi S, Susilarini NK, Tarigan IU, Ticoalu JHV, Trihandini I, 
Wahidin M, Warouw TS, Widyastuti R, Wulandari RD, Hay SI, Murray CJL, Mokdad AH.

Erratum in
    Lancet Glob Health. 2023 Jun;11(6):e832.

Comment in
    Lancet Glob Health. 2022 Nov;10(11):e1547-e1548.
    Lancet Glob Health. 2023 Mar;11(3):e335.
    Lancet Glob Health. 2023 Mar;11(3):e336.
    Lancet Glob Health. 2023 Mar;11(3):e337.

BACKGROUND: Analysing trends and levels of the burden of disease at the national 
level can mask inequalities in health-related progress in lower administrative 
units such as provinces and districts. We used results from the Global Burden of 
Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2019 to analyse health patterns 
in Indonesia at the provincial level between 1990 and 2019. Long-term analyses 
of disease burden provide insights on Indonesia's advance to universal health 
coverage and its ability to meet the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals by 2030.
METHODS: We analysed GBD 2019 estimated cause-specific mortality, years of life 
lost (YLLs), years lived with disability (YLDs), disability-adjusted life-years 
(DALYs), life expectancy at birth, healthy life expectancy, and risk factors for 
286 causes of death, 369 causes of non-fatal health loss, and 87 risk factors by 
year, age, and sex for Indonesia and its 34 provinces from 1990 to 2019. To 
generate estimates for Indonesia at the national level, we used 138 
location-years of data to estimate Indonesia-specific demographic indicators, 
317 location-years of data for Indonesia-specific causes of death, 689 
location-years of data for Indonesia-specific non-fatal outcomes, 250 
location-years of data for Indonesia-specific risk factors, and 1641 
location-years of data for Indonesia-specific covariates. For subnational 
estimates, we used the following source counts: 138 location-years of data to 
estimate Indonesia-specific demographic indicators; 5848 location-years of data 
for Indonesia-specific causes of death; 1534 location-years of data for 
Indonesia-specific non-fatal outcomes; 650 location-years of data for 
Indonesia-specific risk factors; and 16 016 location-years of data for 
Indonesia-specific covariates. We generated our GBD 2019 estimates for Indonesia 
by including 1 915 207 total source metadata rows, and we used 821 total 
citations.
FINDINGS: Life expectancy for males across Indonesia increased from 62·5 years 
(95% uncertainty interval 61·3-63·7) to 69·4 years (67·2-71·6) between 1990 and 
2019, a positive change of 6·9 years. For females during the same period, life 
expectancy increased from 65·7 years (64·5-66·8) to 73·5 years (71·6-75·6), an 
increase of 7·8 years. There were large disparities in health outcomes among 
provinces. In 2019, Bali had the highest life expectancy at birth for males 
(74·4 years, 70·90-77·9) and North Kalimantan had the highest life expectancy at 
birth for females (77·7 years, 74·7-81·2), whereas Papua had the lowest life 
expectancy at birth for males (64·5 years, 60·9-68·2) and North Maluku had the 
lowest life expectancy at birth for females (64·0 years, 60·7-67·3). The 
difference in life expectancy for males between the highest-ranked and 
lowest-ranked provinces was 9·9 years and the difference in life expectacy for 
females between the highest-ranked and lowest-ranked provinces was 13·7 years. 
Age-standardised death, YLL, and YLD rates also varied widely among the 
provinces in 2019. High systolic blood pressure, tobacco, dietary risks, high 
fasting plasma glucose, and high BMI were the five leading risks contributing to 
health loss measured as DALYs in 2019.
INTERPRETATION: Our findings highlight that Indonesia faces a double burden of 
communicable and non-communicable diseases that varies across provinces. From 
1990 to 2019, Indonesia witnessed a decline in the infectious disease burden, 
although communicable diseases such as tuberculosis, diarrhoeal diseases, and 
lower respiratory infections have remained a main source of DALYs in Indonesia. 
During that same period, however, all-ages death and disability rates from 
non-communicable diseases and exposure to their risk factors accounted for 
larger shares of health loss. The differences in health outcomes between the 
highest-performing and lowest-performing provinces have also widened since 1990. 
Our findings support a comprehensive process to revisit current health policies, 
examine the root causes of variation in the burden of disease among provinces, 
and strengthen programmes and policies aimed at reducing disparities across the 
country.
FUNDING: The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the Government of Indonesia.
TRANSLATION: For the Bahasa Indonesia translation of the abstract see 
Supplementary Materials section.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2214-109X(22)00371-0
PMCID: PMC9579357
PMID: 36240829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Neuroimage. 2022 Dec 1;264:119680. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2022.119680.
Epub  2022 Oct 12.

A unified model for reconstruction and R(2)(*) mapping of accelerated 7T data 
using the quantitative recurrent inference machine.

Zhang C(1), Karkalousos D(2), Bazin PL(3), Coolen BF(4), Vrenken H(5), Sonke 
JJ(6), Forstmann BU(7), Poot DHJ(8), Caan MWA(9).

Author information:
(1)Amsterdam UMC location University of Amsterdam, Biomedical Engineering and 
Physics, Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Brain Imaging, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Netherlands Cancer Institute, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: c.zhang@nki.nl.
(2)Amsterdam UMC location University of Amsterdam, Biomedical Engineering and 
Physics, Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Brain Imaging, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
d.karkalousos@amsterdamumc.nl.
(3)Integrative Model-based Cognitive Neuroscience Research unit, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive 
and Brain Sciences, Leipzig, Germany. Electronic address: pilou.bazin@uva.nl.
(4)Amsterdam UMC location University of Amsterdam, Biomedical Engineering and 
Physics, Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
b.f.coolen@amsterdamumc.nl.
(5)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Brain Imaging, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam 
UMC location Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Department of Radiology, De Boelelaan 
1117, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: h.vrenken@amsterdamumc.nl.
(6)Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
j.sonke@nki.nl.
(7)Integrative Model-based Cognitive Neuroscience Research unit, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: B.U.Forstmann@uva.nl.
(8)Biomedical Imaging Group Rotterdam, Department of Radiology & Nuclear 
Medicine, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
d.poot@erasmusmc.nl.
(9)Amsterdam UMC location University of Amsterdam, Biomedical Engineering and 
Physics, Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Brain Imaging, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Computational Radiology and 
Artificial Intelligence, Division of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Oslo 
University Hospital, Oslo, Norway. Electronic address: 
m.w.a.caan@amsterdamumc.nl.

Quantitative MRI (qMRI) acquired at the ultra-high field of 7 Tesla has been 
used in visualizing and analyzing subcortical structures. qMRI relies on the 
acquisition of multiple images with different scan settings, leading to extended 
scanning times. Data redundancy and prior information from the relaxometry model 
can be exploited by deep learning to accelerate the imaging process. We propose 
the quantitative Recurrent Inference Machine (qRIM), with a unified forward 
model for joint reconstruction and R2*-mapping from sparse data, embedded in a 
Recurrent Inference Machine (RIM), an iterative inverse problem-solving network. 
To study the dependency of the proposed extension of the unified forward model 
to network architecture, we implemented and compared a quantitative End-to-End 
Variational Network (qE2EVN). Experiments were performed with high-resolution 
multi-echo gradient echo data of the brain at 7T of a cohort study covering the 
entire adult life span. The error in reconstructed R2* from undersampled data 
relative to reference data significantly decreased for the unified model 
compared to sequential image reconstruction and parameter fitting using the RIM. 
With increasing acceleration factor, an increasing reduction in the 
reconstruction error was observed, pointing to a larger benefit for sparser 
data. Qualitatively, this was following an observed reduction of image 
blurriness in R2*-maps. In contrast, when using the U-Net as network 
architecture, a negative bias in R2* in selected regions of interest was 
observed. Compressed Sensing rendered accurate, but less precise estimates of 
R2*. The qE2EVN showed slightly inferior reconstruction quality compared to the 
qRIM but better quality than the U-Net and Compressed Sensing. Subcortical 
maturation over age measured by a linearly increasing interquartile range of R2* 
in the striatum was preserved up to an acceleration factor of 9. With the 
integrated prior of the unified forward model, the proposed qRIM can exploit the 
redundancy among repeated measurements and shared information between tasks, 
facilitating relaxometry in accelerated MRI.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2022.119680
PMID: 36240989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest M.W.A. Caan is 
shareholder of Nico-lab International Ltd.361. Orthop Traumatol Surg Res. 2023 Apr;109(2):103436. doi: 
10.1016/j.otsr.2022.103436. Epub 2022 Oct 11.

Comparison of results of arthroscopic arthrolysis between traumatic and 
degenerative elbow stiffness.

Sos C(1), Petit A(2), Brunet J(2), Rabarin F(2), Saint Cast Y(2), Raimbeau G(2), 
Bigorre N(2).

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie orthopédique et traumatologique, unité de chirurgie de 
la main et des nerfs périphériques, Centre Hospitalier Régional Universitaire de 
Tours, avenue de la République, 37170 Chambray-lès-Tours, France. Electronic 
address: clara.sosp@gmail.com.
(2)Centre de la Main, 47, rue de la Foucaudière, 49800 Trélazé, France.

INTRODUCTION: Elbow stiffness significantly affects the patient's quality of 
life. This joint must have at least 30°/130° extension/flexion and 50°/50° 
pronation/supination to function normally according to Morrey.
HYPOTHESIS: The objective of this study was to evaluate functional outcome of 
arthroscopic arthrolysis by comparing stiffness of post-traumatic and 
degenerative origin. The hypothesis was that this surgical technique allows 
functional improvement in any indication but with a faster result in 
degenerative pathology.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This was a retrospective study including all patients who 
underwent elbow arthrolysis under arthroscopy, operated on by a single operator, 
between 2013 and 2020. Thirty-four patients were included, with a mean age of 
45years (range, 18-78years). Patients were divided into two groups according to 
etiology. Group A (post-traumatic) consisted of 18 patients with a mean age of 
33years (range, 18-64years) and group B (degenerative) of 16 patients with a 
mean age of 59years (range, 42-78years). All patients were clinically assessed 
at a mean 27months. Range of motion, level of satisfaction and Mayo Elbow 
Performance Score (MEPS) were collected.
RESULTS: In the overall series, preoperative range of motion was 81° and 
significantly improved postoperatively to 122° (p<0.001). The preoperative data 
of the 2 groups were comparable except for age (p<0.001) and MEPS (p=0.044). 
Postoperatively, range of motion improved significantly in both groups but with 
greater gain in group A (p=0.003). MEPS improved significantly in both groups, 
but the postoperative score was poorer in group B (p=0.001). Recovery of range 
of motion was faster in group B (2.4months) than in group A (3.7months) 
(p=0.021). There were 5 complications: 4 secondary decompensations of ulnar 
tunnel syndrome, and 1 postoperative radial nerve paresis. 94% of patients were 
satisfied or very satisfied with the result of surgery.
CONCLUSION: Arthroscopic arthrolysis is an effective option for post-traumatic 
and non-traumatic elbow stiffness. Improvement was significant in terms of both 
function and range of motion, with, however, better results in the 
post-traumatic group but results achieved more rapidly in the degenerative 
pathology group.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV, retrospective study.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otsr.2022.103436
PMID: 36241139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2023 Mar;384(3):331-342. doi: 10.1124/jpet.122.001255.
 Epub 2022 Oct 14.

Pharmacodynamic and Antitumor Activity of BI 836880, a Dual Vascular Endothelial 
Growth Factor and Angiopoietin 2 Inhibitor, Alone and Combined with Programmed 
Cell Death Protein-1 Inhibition.

Hofmann I(1), Baum A(2), Hofmann MH(2), Trapani F(2), Reichel-Voda C(2), 
Ehrensperger D(2), Aichinger M(2), Ebner F(2), Budano N(2), Schweifer N(2), 
Sykora M(2), Depla E(2), Boucneau J(2), Gschwind A(2), Kraut N(2), Hilberg F(2), 
Künkele KP(2).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Immunology and Immune Modulation (I.H., C.R.-V., M.S.), Cancer 
Pharmacology and Disease Positioning (A.B., M.H.H., M.A., F.E., F.H.), Cancer 
Research (D.E., A.G., N.K., K.-P.K.), and Oncology Translational Sciences (F.T., 
N.B., N.S.), Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Co KG, Vienna, Austria; and Ablynx 
NV, Ghent/Zwijnaarde, Belgium (E.D., J.B.) 
irmgard.hofmann@boehringer-ingelheim.com.
(2)Cancer Immunology and Immune Modulation (I.H., C.R.-V., M.S.), Cancer 
Pharmacology and Disease Positioning (A.B., M.H.H., M.A., F.E., F.H.), Cancer 
Research (D.E., A.G., N.K., K.-P.K.), and Oncology Translational Sciences (F.T., 
N.B., N.S.), Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Co KG, Vienna, Austria; and Ablynx 
NV, Ghent/Zwijnaarde, Belgium (E.D., J.B.).

Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and angiopoietin (ANG)-2 have 
complementary roles in angiogenesis and promote an immunosuppressive tumor 
microenvironment. It is anticipated that the combination of VEGF and ANG2 
blockade could provide superior activity to the blockade of either pathway alone 
and that the addition of VEGF/ANG2 inhibition to an anti-programmed cell death 
protein-1 (PD-1) antibody could change the tumor microenvironment to support 
T-cell-mediated tumor cytotoxicity. Here, we describe the pharmacologic and 
antitumor activity of BI 836880, a humanized bispecific nanobody comprising two 
single-variable domains blocking VEGF and ANG2, and an additional module for 
half-life extension in vivo. BI 836880 demonstrated high affinity and 
selectivity for human VEGF-A and ANG2, resulting in inhibition of the downstream 
signaling of VEGF/ANG2 and a decrease in endothelial cell proliferation and 
survival. In vivo, BI 836880 exhibited significant antitumor activity in all 
patient-derived xenograft models tested, showing significantly greater tumor 
growth inhibition (TGI) than bevacizumab (VEGF inhibition) and AMG386 (ANG1/2 
inhibition) in a range of models. In a Lewis lung carcinoma syngeneic tumor 
model, the combination of PD-1 inhibition with VEGF inhibition showed superior 
efficacy versus the blockade of either pathway alone. TGI was further increased 
with the addition of ANG2 inhibition to VEGF/PD-1 blockade. VEGF/ANG2 inhibition 
had a strong antiangiogenic effect. Our data suggest that the blockade of VEGF 
and ANG2 with BI 836880 may offer improved antitumor activity versus the 
blockade of either pathway alone and that combining VEGF/ANG2 inhibition with 
PD-1 blockade can further enhance antitumor effects. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: 
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and angiopoietin (ANG)-2 play key 
roles in angiogenesis and have an immunosuppressive effect in the tumor 
microenvironment. This study shows that BI 836880, a bispecific nanobody 
targeting VEGF and ANG2, demonstrates substantial antitumor activity in 
preclinical models. Combining VEGF/ANG2 inhibition with the blockade of the PD-1 
pathway can further improve antitumor activity.

Copyright © 2023 by The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.122.001255
PMID: 36241203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Neurocrit Care. 2022 Oct 14. doi: 10.1007/s12028-022-01597-x. Online ahead
of  print.

Hospital to Hospital Transfers of Cerebral Hemorrhage: Characteristics of Early 
Withdrawal of Life-Sustaining Treatment.

Krause M(1), Mandrekar J(2), Harmsen WS(2), Wijdicks E(3), Hocker S(3).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Intensive Care Unit, St. Marys Hospital, Mayo Clinic, 200 First 
St., Rochester, MN, USA. Krause.monica@mayo.edu.
(2)Division of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(3)Neuroscience Intensive Care Unit, St. Marys Hospital, Mayo Clinic, 200 First 
St., Rochester, MN, USA.

BACKGROUND: Large intracerebral hemorrhages (ICHs) are associated with 
significant morbidity and mortality. Patient transfer to higher level centers is 
common, but care in these centers rarely demonstrably improves morbidity or 
reduces mortality. Patients may rapidly progress to brain death, but a large 
number die shortly after transferring because of withdrawal of life-sustaining 
treatment (WOLST). This outcome may result in poor resource use and unnecessary 
cost to patients, families, and institutions. We sought to determine clinical 
and radiographic predictors of early death or WOLST that may alter potential 
transfer.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective review of patients admitted from outside 
medical centers to the neurosciences intensive care unit at Saint Marys Mayo 
Clinic Hospital in Rochester, MN, from January 2014 to December 2019. 
Patients ≥ 18 years old with a spontaneous ICH were included. Exclusion criteria 
included trauma, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and subdural hematoma. We identified 
patients who died or underwent WOLST within 24 h of transfer. Descriptive 
characteristics of patients and ICH were collected. Data were analyzed with 
univariable, multivariable, and logistic regression. Predictive modeling was 
performed. An additional case-matched study was completed to evaluate for 
characteristics further.
RESULTS: A total of 317 consecutive patients were identified. Forty-two patients 
were found with early death or WOLST within 24 h of transfer. Do not 
resuscitate/do not intubate (DNR/DNI) code status (odds ratio [OR] 5.23, 
confidence interval [CI] 3.31-8.28), anticoagulation use (OR 2.11, CI 
1.09-4.09), and lower level of consciousness at presentation based on Glasgow 
Coma Score (OR 1.41, CI 1.29-1.54) and Full Outline of Unresponsiveness (FOUR) 
score (OR 1.34, CI 1.26-1.46) were associated with WOLST. Associated 
characteristics on the computed tomography scan included midline shift (OR 4.64, 
CI 2.32-9.29), hydrocephalus (OR 9.30, CI 4.56-18.96), and intraventricular 
extension (OR 5.27, CI 2.60-10.68). Case matching restricted to midline shift 
demonstrated similarity between patients with aggressive care and WOLST. DNR/DNI 
code status, warfarin use, ICH score, and composite FOUR score were the best 
predictive characteristics (area under the curve 0.942).
CONCLUSIONS: Early death or WOLST after ICH within 24 h of presentation was most 
associated with DNR/DNI code status, warfarin use, ICH score, and lower level of 
consciousness at presentation. These characteristics may be used by clinicians 
to guide conversations prior to transfer to tertiary care centers.

© 2022. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature and 
Neurocritical Care Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s12028-022-01597-x
PMID: 36241772


364. Pharmacoeconomics. 2022 Dec;40(12):1247-1259. doi:
10.1007/s40273-022-01196-w.  Epub 2022 Oct 15.

Cost Effectiveness of Adding Pembrolizumab to Platinum and 
Fluoropyrimidine-Based Chemotherapy as First-Line Treatment for Advanced 
Esophageal Cancer: A US Healthcare Payer's Perspective.

Qu T(1), Zhang S(2), Zhong Y(3), Meng Y(1), Guo H(3), Joo S(4), Enzinger PC(5).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Analysis, Lumanity, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(2)Departments of Biostatistics and Research Decision Sciences/Health Economic 
and Decision Sciences, Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, NJ, USA. 
shujing.zhang@merck.com.
(3)Departments of Biostatistics and Research Decision Sciences/Health Economic 
and Decision Sciences, Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, NJ, USA.
(4)Center for Observational and Real-World Evidence, Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, 
NJ, USA.
(5)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Pembrolizumab plus cisplatin and fluorouracil 
demonstrated superior efficacy and comparable safety compared with fluorouracil 
and cisplatin (FP) as first-line treatment for locally advanced unresectable or 
metastatic carcinoma of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction 
adenocarcinoma in a phase III trial (KEYNOTE-590). This study evaluated the cost 
effectiveness of pembrolizumab plus FP versus FP and versus a blended 
chemotherapy comparator including FP, carboplatin plus paclitaxel, FOLFOX, 
FOLFIRI, docetaxel plus FP, trastuzumab plus FP, and trastuzumab plus FOLFOX 
from a US healthcare payer's perspective.
METHODS: A partitioned survival model was developed with three health states 
(progression-free, progressive disease, and death). Overall survival, 
progression-free survival, time on treatment, and adverse events were informed 
by patient-level data from KEYNOTE-590. The blended chemotherapy comparator 
reflected the current US treatment landscape and was assumed to have similar 
efficacy and safety as FP. Health utilities were estimated using linear 
mixed-effects models based on EQ-5D-5L data from the trial. Resource use and 
cost inputs (2020 US dollars) were based on US standard sources and literature. 
Costs, life-years, and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) discounted at 3.0% 
per year and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio were outcomes in the model. 
Sensitivity and scenario analyses were conducted to assess the robustness of 
base-case results.
RESULTS: Compared with FP, pembrolizumab plus FP produced a mean gain of 0.86 
life-year and 0.77 QALY with additional costs of $112,630 over 37.6 years, 
yielding an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $147,097 per QALY. Results 
were similar when the intervention was pembrolizumab plus alternative 
chemotherapies or when blended chemotherapy became the comparator. Results were 
most sensitive to different overall survival extrapolation approaches.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis suggests that pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy extended 
life-years and QALYs and is cost effective compared with chemotherapy alone as a 
first-line treatment for advanced esophageal cancer in the USA given a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $150,000 per QALY.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-022-01196-w
PMID: 36241842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Childs Nerv Syst. 2023 Sep;39(9):2317-2327. doi: 10.1007/s00381-022-05649-7.
 Epub 2022 Oct 15.

Results of the treatment of pineal tumors in children: the Lyon experience.

Szathmari A(1), Beuriat PA(1)(2), Vasiljevic A(3), Leblond P(4), Faure-Conter 
C(4), Claude L(5), Di Rocco F(1)(2), Mottolese C(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Neurosurgery, Hôpital Femme Mère Enfant, 32 Avenue du 
Doyen Jean Lépine, 69500, Hospices Civils de LyonBron, France.
(2)Université Claude Bernard, Lyon 1, 69100, Villeurbanne, France.
(3)Department of Pathology and Neuropathology, GHE, Hospices Civils de Lyon, 
69500, Bron, France.
(4)Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, Institut d'hématologie et 
d'oncologie Pédiatrique, 69008, Lyon, France.
(5)Department of Radiotherapy, Centre Léon Bérard, 69008, Lyon, France.
(6)Department of Pediatric Neurosurgery, Hôpital Femme Mère Enfant, 32 Avenue du 
Doyen Jean Lépine, 69500, Hospices Civils de LyonBron, France. 
carmine.mottolese@chu-lyon.fr.

INTRODUCTION: Pineal tumors are rare and their incidence is of 1% among all 
pediatric tumors of the central nervous system. Patient survival depends on the 
histology, the extension of the surgical removal, and the efficacy of 
the complementary treatment (chemotherapy and cranio-spinal irradiation), as 
well as the age of the patient.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, we analyzed 151 pediatric patients treated 
for pineal tumors from 1997 to 2020 in Lyon, France. All patients were recorded 
in the French Register of Pineal tumors, which has been centralized and 
maintained in Lyon since 2010.
RESULTS: Our analysis shows that benign tumors have an overall positive 
prognosis with total surgical removal. Concerning pineal parenchymal tumors, 
pinealoblastomas have a poor prognosis , especially in children less than three 
years old. A new pathological classification system allows for a better 
stratification of patient risk within different groups of patients with pineal 
tumors. It is also important to note that the identification of DICER 1 syndrome 
in families with pinealoblastomas warrant further medical investigation. 
Patients with Germ Cell Tumors have more favorable outcomes, with a global 
survival rate of 87 % and a pure germinoma survival rate of almost 97%. When 
analyzing the prognosis of pineal gland gliomas, otherwise known as tectal plate 
gliomas, pilocytic astrocytomas had a promising prognosis. Otherwise, prognosis 
of other tectal plate gliomas are related to the grade of malignancy and the 
efficacy of complementary treatment. Lastly, papillary tumors need a complete 
removal for the best chance of survival, and Atypical teratoid/ rabdoid tumors 
(AT/TR) still have a bad prognosis, regardless of surgical resection.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that, with regards to pediatric pineal region 
tumors, there are still areas in prognostic indicators that need to be improved. 
Similarly, these pathologies need to be treated via a multidisciplinary approach 
to improve a patient's survival rate and their quality of life.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00381-022-05649-7
PMID: 36242638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. CNS Drugs. 2022 Nov;36(11):1207-1216. doi: 10.1007/s40263-022-00956-8. Epub
2022  Oct 15.

The Safety of Deutetrabenazine for Chorea in Huntington Disease: An Open-Label 
Extension Study.

Frank S(1), Testa C(2), Edmondson MC(2), Goldstein J(3), Kayson E(3), Leavitt 
BR(4), Oakes D(5), O'Neill C(6), Vaughan C(7), Whaley J(8), Gross N(9), Gordon 
MF(9), Savola JM(10); Huntington Study Group/ARC-HD Investigators and 
Coordinators.

Collaborators: Frank S, Testa C, Stamler D, Kayson E, Edmondson MC, Leavitt BR, 
Oakes D, O'Neill C, Vaughan C, Goldstein J, Bockus M, Leyva S, Snively V, Whaley 
J, Wong C, Mallonee WM, Suter G, Jankovic J, Jimenez-Shahed J, Hunter C, 
Claassen DO, West L, Roman O, Sung V, Smith J, Clouse R, Saint-Hilaire M, Turpin 
D, James R, Rodriguez R, Rizer K, Anderson K, Heller H, Ahmad A, Criswell S, 
Racette BA, Nucifora FC Jr, Churchill G, Ong M, Mendis T, Mendis N, Singer C, 
Paulsen JS, Kerr J, Dubinsky R, Gray C, Factor SA, Sperin E, Molho E, Evans S, 
Nickels B, Bergen C, Jaynes J, Reeves C, Segro V, Samii A, Christopher E, Del 
Castillo D, Chouinard S, Perry-Trice P, Esmail S, Fung WLA, Gibbons C, Colcher 
A, Hackmyer C, McGarry A, Klos K, Gudesblatt M, Schneider D, Dhall R, Simpson E, 
Wojcieszek J, Hurt A, LaFaver K, Robinson A, Revilla FJ, Duker AP, Neefus E, 
Wilson-Perez H, Shprecher D, Hohnholt T, Wall P, Boyd J, Houston E, Farbman ES, 
Poynor S, Agarwal P, Leon J, Eberly S, Watts A, Tariot P, Feigin A, Evans SR, 
Beck CA.

Author information:
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center/Harvard Medical School, 330 Brookline 
Ave, Kirstein 228, Boston, MA, 02215, USA. sfrank2@bidmc.harvard.edu.
(2)University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(3)Huntington Study Group, Rochester, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Medical Genetics, Centre for Molecular Medicine and 
Therapeutics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(5)University of Rochester, Rochester, NY, USA.
(6)Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center, Winston Salem, NC, USA.
(7)University of Colorado, Denver, CO, USA.
(8)Center for Health and Technology, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY, 
USA.
(9)Teva Pharmaceuticals, West Chester, PA, USA.
(10)Teva Pharmaceuticals, Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Deutetrabenazine is approved in the USA, China, Australia, Israel, 
Brazil, and South Korea for the treatment of chorea associated with Huntington 
disease.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of 
deutetrabenazine for the treatment of Huntington disease.
METHODS: This open-label, single-arm, multi-center study included patients who 
completed a double-blind study (Rollover) and patients who converted overnight 
from a stable tetrabenazine dose (Switch). Exposure-adjusted incidence rates 
(adverse events per person-year) were calculated. Efficacy was analyzed using a 
stable post-titration timepoint (8 weeks). Changes in the Unified Huntington's 
Disease Rating Scale total motor score and total maximal chorea score from 
baseline to week 8, as well as those from week 8 to week 145 (or the last visit 
on the study drug if that occurred earlier), were evaluated as both efficacy and 
safety endpoints during the study.
RESULTS: Of 119 patients (Rollover, n = 82; Switch, n = 37), 100 (84%) completed 
≥ 1 year of treatment. End-of-study exposure-adjusted incidence rates for 
adverse events in Rollover and Switch, respectively, were: any, 2.57 and 4.02; 
serious, 0.11 and 0.14; leading to dose suspension, 0.05 and 0.04. Common 
adverse events (≥ 4% either cohort) included somnolence (Rollover, 20%; Switch, 
30%), depression (32%; 22%), anxiety (27%; 35%), insomnia (23%; 16%), and 
akathisia (6%; 11%). Adverse events of interest included suicidality (9%; 5%) 
and parkinsonism (4%; 8%). Mean dose at week 8 was 38.1 mg (Rollover) and 36.5 
mg (Switch). Mean dose across cohorts after titration was 37.6 mg; at the final 
visit, mean dose across cohorts was 45.7 mg. Patients showed minimal change in 
the Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale total maximal chorea scores with 
stable dosing from weeks 8-145 or at the end of treatment, but total motor score 
increased versus week 8 (mean change [standard deviation]: 8.2 [11.9]). There 
were no unexpected adverse events upon drug withdrawal, and mean (standard 
deviation) total maximal chorea scores increased 4.7 (4.6) units from week 8 to 
1-week follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Adverse events observed with long-term deutetrabenazine exposure 
were consistent with previous studies. Reductions in chorea persisted over time. 
Upon treatment cessation, there was no unexpected worsening of chorea.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01897896.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40263-022-00956-8
PMCID: PMC9653309
PMID: 36242718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Samuel Frank and Claudia Testa served as 
co-principal investigators of First-HD. Claudia Testa also served as a 
consultant for Lundbeck, with honoraria donated to the Medical College of 
Virginia Foundation. Mary C. Edmondson reports serving on a Wave Life Sciences 
Clinical Advisory Committee, funding from uniQure, and ENROLL-HD DSMB 
involvement. Blair R. Leavitt is currently employed as a Professor in the 
Department of Medical Genetics, and Division of Neurology, Department of 
Medicine and as a senior scientist at the Centre for Molecular Medicine and 
Therapeutics, The University of British Columbia, and BC Children’s Hospital. In 
the last 5 years, he has held or applied for research grants in the area of 
neurodegenerative disease from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, 
The Huntington Society of Canada, Weston Brain Foundation, Brain Canada, 
uniQure, Triplet, and the Nanomedicines Innovations Network. He has served on 
scientific advisory boards for sRNAlytics, the Huntington’s Disease Society of 
America, and the Huntington Society of Canada. In addition, he has acted as a 
paid consultant to Roche, uniQure, Novartis, PTC Therapeutics, Triplet 
Therapeutics, Genentech, Takeda, and Ionis. He is also a 
shareholder, co-founder, and CEO of Incisive Genetics Inc., a biotech start-up 
company developing therapies for genetic brain diseases. David Oakes received 
research support from Auspex (for the First-HD and related studies), Vaccinex 
Inc., Prana Pharmaceuticals, Biogen, Inc., and the National Institutes of 
Health; and received honoraria from Raptor Pharmaceuticals and Voyager Inc. 
Christina Vaughan received an emergency fast-track COVID-19 response grant from 
the Adira Foundation. Nicholas Gross and Mark Forrest Gordon are employees of 
Teva Pharmaceuticals, and Juha-Matti Savola is a former employee of Teva 
Pharmaceuticals. Jody Goldstein, Elise Kayson, Christine O’Neill, and Jacquelyn 
Whaley report no disclosures. Qualified researchers may request access to 
patient-level data and related study documents, including the study protocol and 
the statistical analysis plan. Requests will be reviewed for scientific merit, 
product approval status, and conflicts of interest. Patient-level data will be 
de-identified and study documents will be redacted to protect the privacy of 
trial participants and to protect commercially confidential information. Please 
e-mail USMedInfo@tevapharm.com to make your request.


367. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2023 Sep 1;29(9):1370-1379. doi: 10.1093/ibd/izac222.

Health-Related Quality of Life Outcomes With Tofacitinib Treatment in Patients 
With Ulcerative Colitis in the Open-Label Extension Study, OCTAVE Open.

Biedermann L(1), Dubinsky MC(2), Vermeire S(3), Fellmann M(4), Gardiner S(5), 
Hur P(5), Mundayat R(5), Panés J(6), Rubin DT(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital Zürich, 
Zürich, Switzerland.
(2)Susan and Leonard Feinstein IBD Center, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospitals Leuven, 
Leuven, Belgium.
(4)Pfizer Switzerland AG, Zürich, Switzerland.
(5)Pfizer Inc, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, August Pi i 
Sunyer Biomedical Research Institute, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red 
Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)University of Chicago Medicine Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center, Chicago, 
IL, USA.

BACKGROUND: Tofacitinib is an oral small molecule Janus kinase inhibitor for the 
treatment of ulcerative colitis. We report health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL) outcomes in patients with ulcerative colitis in the phase 3 open-label, 
long-term extension study, OCTAVE Open.
METHODS: The Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire (IBDQ), EuroQoL-5 
Dimensions Health Questionnaire, and 36-Item Short Form Survey scores were 
analyzed up to month (M) 72 in 4 subpopulations: patients in remission at 
baseline (maintenance remitters) assigned tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and 
patients not in remission at baseline (maintenance nonremitters, maintenance 
treatment failures, and induction nonresponders [IndNRs]) assigned tofacitinib 
10 mg twice daily in OCTAVE Open. Data were analyzed overall and stratified by 
corticosteroid use at baseline, prior tumor necrosis factor inhibitor failure, 
and prior immunosuppressant failure.
RESULTS: Among maintenance remitters and nonremitters, HRQoL outcomes were 
maintained up to M72: 80.0% and 100.0% of patients had an IBDQ total score ≥170, 
respectively. At baseline, 7.4% of maintenance treatment failures had an IBDQ 
total score ≥170, and this increased to 54.3% and 75.0% at M2 and M72, 
respectively. Corresponding values for IndNRs were 22.6%, 51.0%, and 86.0%. 
HRQoL outcomes were independent of treatment history. Among patients not in 
remission at baseline, improvement in EuroQoL-5 Dimensions Health Questionnaire 
and 36-Item Short Form Survey scores was maintained or achieved by M2, and 
steady to M72 or M33, with maintenance treatment failures and IndNR 
subpopulations undergoing the biggest improvements from baseline.
CONCLUSIONS: A continued favorable impact on HRQoL was revealed with long-term 
tofacitinib treatment in OCTAVE Open, regardless of baseline remission status or 
treatment history. (ClinicalTrials.gov; number: NCT01470612).

Plain Language Summary: Health-related quality of life was assessed in patients 
with ulcerative colitis in an open-label, long-term extension study, OCTAVE 
Open. Patients had sustained beneficial effects on health-related quality of 
life with long-term tofacitinib treatment, regardless of treatment 
history/remission status at OCTAVE Open baseline.

© 2022 Crohn’s & Colitis Foundation. Published by Oxford University Press on 
behalf of Crohn’s & Colitis Foundation.

DOI: 10.1093/ibd/izac222
PMCID: PMC10472737
PMID: 36242764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: L.B. has received consulting fees from AbbVie, 
Calypso, Esocap, Ewopharma, Dr. Falk Pharma, Ferring Pharmaceuticals, Janssen 
Pharmaceuticals, MSD, Pfizer Inc, Sanofi, Shire, Takeda, and Vifor. M.C.D. has 
received consulting fees from AbbVie, Arena, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Celgene, Eli 
Lilly, Galapagos, Gilead Sciences, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Pfizer Inc, 
Prometheus Labs, Takeda, and UCB; and is a shareholder of Trellus Health. S.V. 
has received grant support from AbbVie, Galapagos, MSD, Pfizer Inc, and Takeda; 
speaker fees from AbbVie, Dr. Falk Pharma, Ferring Pharmaceuticals, Hospira, 
MSD, Takeda, and Tillotts; and consulting fees from AbbVie, AbolerIS Pharma, 
Alimentiv, Arena, AstraZeneca, Avaxia, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Celgene, CVasThera, Dr. Falk Pharma, Eli Lilly, Ferring 
Pharmaceuticals, Galapagos, Genentech/Roche, Gilead Sciences, Hospira, 
Imidomics, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Johnson and Johnson, Materia Prima, MiroBio, 
Morphic, MrMHealth, MSD, Mundipharma, Pfizer Inc, Prodigest, Progenity, 
Prometheus, Robarts Clinical Trials, Second Genome, Shire, Surrozen, Takeda, 
Theravance Biopharma, Tillots Pharma AG, and Zealand Pharma. M.F., S.G., P.H., 
and R.M. are employees and stockholders of Pfizer Inc. J.P. has received 
personal fees from AbbVie, Arena, Athos, Boehringer Ingelheim, Celgene, 
Celltrion, Ferring Pharmaceuticals, Galapagos, Genentech/Roche, GlaxoSmithKline, 
Immunic, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Mirum, Morphic, Nestlé, Origo, Pandion, Pfizer 
Inc, Progenity, Revolo, Takeda, Theravance Biopharma, and Wassermann; and 
received grant support from AbbVie and Pfizer Inc. D.T.R. has received 
consulting fees from AbbVie, Altrubio, Arena Pharmaceuticals, Bellatrix 
Pharmaceuticals, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Celgene 
Corp/Syneos, Connect BioPharma, GalenPharma/Atlantica, Genentech/Roche, Gilead 
Sciences, InDex Pharmaceuticals, Iterative Scopes, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Eli 
Lilly, Pfizer Inc, Prometheus Biosciences, Reistone, Takeda, and Techlab Inc; 
and received a research grant from Takeda.


368. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2023 Apr 1;78(4):695-704. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbac169.

Educational Differences in Life Expectancies With and Without Pain.

Sun F(1), Zimmer Z(1)(2), Zajacova A(3).

Author information:
(1)Global Aging and Community Initiative, Mount Saint Vincent University, 
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
(2)Department of Family Studies and Gerontology, Mount Saint Vincent University, 
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
(3)Department of Sociology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, 
Canada.

OBJECTIVES: This study computes years and proportion of life that older adults 
living in the United States can expect to live pain-free and in different pain 
states, by age, sex, and level of education. The analysis addresses challenges 
related to dynamics and mortality selection when studying associations between 
education and pain in older populations.
METHODS: Data are from National Health and Aging Trends Study, 2011-2020. The 
sample contains 10,180 respondents who are age 65 and older. Pain expectancy 
estimates are computed using the Interpolated Markov Chain software that applies 
probability transitions to multistate life tables.
RESULTS: Those with higher educational levels expect not only a longer life but 
also a higher proportion of life without pain. For example, a 65-year-old female 
with less than high school education expects 18.1 years in total and 5.8 years, 
or 32% of life, without pain compared with 23.7 years in total with 10.7 years, 
or 45% of life without pain if she completed college. The education gradient in 
pain expectancies is more salient for females than males and narrows at the 
oldest ages. There is no educational disparity in the percent of life with 
nonlimiting pain.
DISCUSSION: Education promotes longer life and more pain-free years, but the 
specific degree of improvement by education varies across demographic groups. 
More research is needed to explain associations between education and more and 
less severe and limiting aspects of pain.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbac169
PMCID: PMC10066743
PMID: 36242782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


369. Protist. 2022 Dec;173(6):125912. doi: 10.1016/j.protis.2022.125912. Epub
2022  Sep 23.

The Extraordinarily Rare Ciliate Legendrea loyezae Fauré-Fremiet, 1908 
(Haptoria, Ciliophora).

Weiss J(1), Andreou D(2), Esteban GF(3).

Author information:
(1)Private Laboratory, 03914 Warsaw, Poland. Electronic address: 
james@pondbuddies.com.
(2)Bournemouth University, Department of Life and Environmental Sciences, Poole, 
