health condition, or age, underlying the model's usefulness.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph192013202
PMCID: PMC9603390
PMID: 36293783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Since July 2022, Ulrike Baum has worked as a 
Technical Project Manager at Telemedi GmbH. The research reported here was 
conducted and evaluated until 06/2022 during her full-time employment at the 
University Department of Neurology, Otto-von-Guericke-University Magdeburg 
(Germany). She declares that the reported research is unrelated to her current 
employment at TeleMedi GmbH. She has NO conflicts of interest to declare. Frauke 
Kühn works as a Sensory Project Manager at isi GmbH, a professional Market 
Research Institute. She declares that the research reported in this study (as 
well as the whole HOME project) was not related to her work at isi GmbH. She has 
NO conflicts of interest to declare. The authors declare no conflict of 
interest.


542. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Oct 14;19(20):13279. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph192013279.

The Acceptance Behavior of Smart Home Health Care Services in South Korea: An 
Integrated Model of UTAUT and TTF.

Kang HJ(1), Han J(2), Kwon GH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Service Design Engineering, Sungshin Women's University, Seoul 
02844, Korea.
(2)Graduate School of Technology and Innovation Management, Hanyang University, 
Seoul 04763, Korea.

With the COVID-19 pandemic, the importance of home health care to manage and 
monitor one's health status in a home environment became more crucial than ever. 
This change raised the need for smart home health care services (SHHSs) and 
their extension to everyday life. However, the factors influencing the 
acceptance behavior of SHHSs have been inadequately investigated and failed to 
address why users have the intention to use and adopt the services. This study 
aimed to analyze the influential factors and measure the behavioral acceptance 
of SHHSs in South Korea. This study adopted the integrated model of the unified 
theory of acceptance and use of technology (UTAUT) and task-technology fit (TTF) 
to understand the behavioral acceptance of SHHSs from users' perceptions and 
task-technology fit. Multiple-item scales were established based on validated 
previous measurement scales and adjusted in accordance with SHHS context. Data 
from 487 valid samples were analyzed statistically, applying partial least 
square structural equation modeling. The results indicated that the integrated 
acceptance model explained 55.2% of the variance in behavioral intention, 44.9% 
of adoption, and 62.5% of the continuous intention to use SHHSs, supporting 11 
of the 13 proposed hypotheses. Behavioral intention was positively influenced by 
users' perceptions on performance expectancy, effort expectancy, social 
influence, and functional conditions. Task-technology fit significantly 
influenced performance expectancy and behavioral intention, validating the 
linkage between the two models. Meanwhile, task characteristics were 
insignificant to determine task-technology fit, which might stem from complex 
home health care needs due to the COVID-19 pandemic, but were not sufficiently 
resolved by current service technologies. The findings implied that the 
acceptance of SHHSs needs to be evaluated according to both the user perceptions 
of technologies and the matching fit of task and technology. Theoretically, this 
study supports the applicability of the integrated model of UTAUT and TTF to the 
domain of SHHS, and newly proposed the measurement items of TTF reflecting the 
domain specificity of SHHS, providing empirical evidence during the pandemic era 
in South Korea. Practically, the results could suggest to the planners and 
strategists of home health care services how to promote SHHS in one's health 
management.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph192013279
PMCID: PMC9603123
PMID: 36293859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.


543. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Oct 19;19(20):13509. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph192013509.

Health-Related Expectations Regarding Aging among Middle-Aged and Older 
Japanese: Psychometric Performance and Novel Findings from the ERA-12-J.

Annear M(1), Shimizu Y(2), Kidokoro T(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Sport Sciences, Waseda University, Nishitokyo 202-0021, Japan.
(2)Division of Arts and Sciences, International Christian University, Mitaka 
181-8585, Japan.
(3)Research Institute of Physical Education, Nippon Sport Science University, 
Setagaya-ku 158-8508, Japan.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Health-related expectations regarding aging is a 
gerontological construct that is potentially predictive of morbidity and 
mortality in later life. The Expectations Regarding Ageing scale (ERA-12) is a 
widely used measure of health-related expectations, although it has not 
previously been administered in Japanese. The present research aimed to 
elucidate the psychometric properties of the first Japanese translation of the 
ERA-12 and evaluate health-related expectations among middle-aged and older 
Japanese.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Repeated online surveys were conducted with 
representative quota samples of middle-aged and older adults in Tokyo during 
2021 (N = 1600). Primary outcome measures included total and subscale scores on 
a Japanese translation of the ERA-12 (ERA-12-J) addressing perceptions of 
physical, mental, and cognitive health. Standard measures were also used to 
gather information regarding respondent demographic details, general health, and 
health-related behavior.
RESULTS: The ERA-12-J and associated subscales showed acceptable test-retest 
reliability (t(1598) = 0.60, p = 0.63), internal consistency (α > 0.80), 
inter-item correlation (r = 0.21-0.78) and item-total correlation (r = 
0.53-0.73). Confirmatory Factor Analysis verified the hypothesized three-factor 
structure and construct validity on four common indices of fit (GFI = 0.968; CFI 
= 0.978; AGFI = 0.950; RMSEA = 0.059). ERA-12-J scores among Japanese 
respondents revealed prevailing negative sentiments concerning physical and 
cognitive health, with less negative sentiment regarding mental health. 
Significant and independent differences emerged concerning gender and age 
cohort, with middle-aged adults and females holding more negative expectations 
about their future health.
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: The ERA-12-J provides a sound basis for the 
elucidation of health-related expectations about aging in Japan and a useful 
tool for international comparative studies. Education and workplace intervention 
may be required in Japan to address age and gender disparities in health-related 
expectations.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph192013509
PMCID: PMC9603585
PMID: 36294091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


544. J Clin Med. 2022 Oct 11;11(20):5995. doi: 10.3390/jcm11205995.

Can the Duration of In-Hospital Ventilation in Patients with Sepsis Help Predict 
Long-Term Survival?

Klein M(1), Israeli A(2), Hassan L(2)(3), Binyamin Y(4), Frank D(4), Boyko M(4), 
Novack V(3)(5), Frenkel A(1).

Author information:
(1)General Intensive Care Unit, Soroka University Medical Center, the Faculty of 
Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva 84101, Israel.
(2)The Joyce and Irving Goldman Medical School, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva 8410101, Israel.
(3)Clinical Research Center, Soroka University Medical Center, the Faculty of 
Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva 84101, Israel.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology, Soroka University Medical Center, the Faculty 
of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva 84101, 
Israel.
(5)Anesthesia, Critical Care and Pain Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

Mechanical ventilation is a cornerstone in the treatment of critical illness, 
especially sepsis. Prolonged mechanical ventilation, for a duration exceeding 21 
days, is associated with higher rates of in-hospital and post-discharge 
mortality. Our aim was to assess the association between in-hospital ventilation 
duration and long-term life expectancy in patients ventilated in intensive care 
units specifically due to sepsis of any origin. We conducted a population-based 
retrospective cohort study of adults hospitalized in a general intensive care 
unit for 24 h or more during 2007-2017, who were diagnosed with sepsis or septic 
shock, treated with invasive mechanical ventilation for a maximum of 60 days and 
survived hospitalization. The primary exposure was the length of invasive 
mechanical ventilation. In an adjusted multivariable regression model, survival 
rates at 1, 2, 3 and 4 years post-hospitalization did not differ significantly 
between patients who were ventilated for 3-8 days (n = 169), 9-21 days (n = 160) 
or 22-60 days (n = 170), and those who were ventilated for 1-2 days (n = 192). 
We concluded that the duration of in-hospital ventilation in patients with 
sepsis cannot serve as a predictor for long-term survival. Thus, the duration of 
ventilation in itself should not guide the level of care in ventilated patients 
with sepsis.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11205995
PMCID: PMC9604344
PMID: 36294317

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


545. J Clin Med. 2022 Oct 14;11(20):6071. doi: 10.3390/jcm11206071.

Is Less Always More? A Prospective Two-Centre Study Addressing Clinical Outcomes 
in Leadless versus Transvenous Single-Chamber Pacemaker Recipients.

Bertelli M(1), Toniolo S(1), Ziacchi M(1), Gasperetti A(2), Schiavone M(2), 
Arosio R(2), Capobianco C(1), Mitacchione G(2), Statuto G(1), Angeletti A(1), 
Martignani C(1), Diemberger I(1), Forleo GB(2), Biffi M(1).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di Bologna, 40122 Bologna, Italy.
(2)Unità Operativa di Cardiologia, ASST-Fatebenefratelli-Sacco, Ospedale Luigi 
Sacco University, 20157 Milano, Italy.

Erratum in
    J Clin Med. 2023 Mar 16;12(6):

(1) Background: Leadless (LL) stimulation is perceived to lower surgical, 
vascular, and lead-related complications compared to transvenous (TV) 
pacemakers, yet controlled studies are lacking and real-life experience is 
non-conclusive. (2) Aim: To prospectively analyse survival and complication 
rates in leadless versus transvenous VVIR pacemakers. (3) Methods: Prospective 
analysis of mortality and complications in 344 consecutive VVIR TV and LL 
pacemaker recipients between June 2015 and May 2021. Indications for VVIR pacing 
were "slow" AF, atrio-ventricular block in AF or in sinus rhythm in bedridden 
cognitively impaired patients. LL indication was based on individualised 
clinical judgement. (4) Results: 72 patients received LL and 272 TV VVIR 
pacemakers. LL pacemaker indications included ongoing/expected chronic 
haemodialysis, superior venous access issues, active lifestyle with low pacing 
percentage expected, frailty causing high bleeding/infectious risk, previous 
valvular endocarditis, or device infection requiring extraction. No significant 
difference in the overall acute and long-term complication rate was observed 
between LL and TV cohorts, with greater mortality occurring in TV due to 
selection of older patients. (5) Conclusions: Given the low complication rate 
and life expectancy in this contemporary VVIR cohort, extending LL indications 
to all VVIR candidates is unlikely to provide clear-cut benefits. Considering 
the higher costs of LL technology, careful patient selection is mandatory for LL 
PMs to become advantageous, i.e., in the presence of vascular access issues, 
high bleeding/infectious risk, and long life expectancy, rendering lead-related 
issues and repeated surgery relevant in the long-term perspective.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11206071
PMCID: PMC9604678
PMID: 36294401

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


546. J Clin Med. 2022 Oct 20;11(20):6202. doi: 10.3390/jcm11206202.

Relationship between Testosterone and Sarcopenia in Older-Adult Men: A Narrative 
Review.

Shigehara K(1), Kato Y(1), Izumi K(1), Mizokami A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrative Cancer Therapy and Urology, Kanazawa University 
Graduate School of Medical Science, 13-1, Takaramachi, Kanazawa 920-8641, Japan.

Age-related decline in testosterone is known to be associated with various 
clinical symptoms among older men and it is possible that the accompanying 
decline in muscle mass and strength might lead to a decline in motor and 
physical functions. Sarcopenia is an important pathophysiological factor 
associated with frailty in older adults and is diagnosed in older adults as a 
decrease in muscle strength, muscle mass, and walking speed, which can lead to a 
significant decline in the quality of life and shortened healthy life 
expectancy. Testosterone directly interacts with the androgen receptor expressed 
in myonuclei and satellite cells and is also indirectly associated with muscle 
metabolism through various cytokines and molecules. Currently, significant 
correlations between testosterone and frailty in men have been confirmed by 
numerous cross-sectional studies. Many randomized control studies have also 
supported the beneficial effect of testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) on 
muscle volume and strength among men with low to normal testosterone levels. In 
the world's aging society, TRT can be a tool for preventing the onset of 
sarcopenia in older-adult men. This narrative review aims to show the 
relationship between the decline in testosterone with age, sarcopenia, and 
frailty, as well as the effects of testosterone replacement therapy on muscle 
mass and strength.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11206202
PMCID: PMC9605266
PMID: 36294523

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


547. J Pers Med. 2022 Oct 6;12(10):1661. doi: 10.3390/jpm12101661.

Current Approaches in the Allocation of Liver Transplantation.

Ionescu VA(1)(2), Diaconu CC(1)(3)(4), Bungau S(5), Jinga V(1)(4)(6), Gheorghe 
G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)"Prof. Dr. Theodor Burghele" Clinical Hospital, University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy Carol Davila, 050474 Bucharest, Romania.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Clinical Emergency Hospital of Bucharest, 
105402 Bucharest, Romania.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Clinical Emergency Hospital of Bucharest, 
105402 Bucharest, Romania.
(4)Medical Sciences Section, Academy of Romanian Scientists, 050085 Bucharest, 
Romania.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, University of 
Oradea, 410028 Oradea, Romania.
(6)Department of Urology, "Prof. Dr. Theodor Burghele" Hospital, 050653 
Bucharest, Romania.

In recent decades, important advances have been made in the field of liver 
transplantation. One of the major problems remaining in this area is the small 
number of donors. Thus, recent data bring multiple updates of the indications 
and contraindications of this therapeutic method. The main goal is to increase 
the number of patients who can benefit from liver transplantation, a therapeutic 
method that can improve life expectancy and the quality of life of patients with 
end-stage liver disease. Another goal in the management of these patients is 
represented by the optimal care of those on the waiting list during that period. 
A multidisciplinary team approach is necessary to obtain the best results for 
both the donor and the recipient.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm12101661
PMCID: PMC9605642
PMID: 36294801

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


548. Life (Basel). 2022 Sep 20;12(10):1458. doi: 10.3390/life12101458.

Wrist Bone Motion during Flexion-Extension and Radial-Ulnar Deviation: An MRI 
Study.

Li J(1), Rath B(2), Hildebrand F(1), Eschweiler J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Trauma and Reconstructive Surgery, RWTH Aachen 
University Hospital, 52074 Aachen, Germany.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Klinikum Wels-Grieskirchen, 4600 Wels, 
Austria.

The wrist joint plays a vital role in activities of daily living. Clinical 
applications, e.g., therapeutic planning, prosthesis design, and wrist 
biomechanical analysis, require a detailed understanding of wrist maneuvers and 
motion. The lack of soft tissue information, motion analysis on limited carpal 
bones, etc., restrain the investigation of wrist kinematics. In this study, we 
established 3D models of carpal bones with their cartilages, and revealed the 
helical axes (HA) of all eight carpal bones for the first time. Both left and 
right hands at different positions of flexion-extension (FE) and radial-ulnar 
deviation (RUD) from five subjects were in-vivo imaged through a magnetic 
resonance imaging device. We segmented all of the bones, including cartilage 
information in the wrist joint, after which we explored the kinematics of all 
carpal bones with the HA method. The results showed that the HA of all carpal 
bones for FE bounded tightly and was mainly located slightly above the radius. 
During the RUD, carpal bones in the distal row rotated along with wrist movement 
while the scaphoid, lunate, and triquetrum primarily flexed and extended. 
Further results reported that the carpal bones translated greater in RUD than in 
FE. With the generation of more delicate wrist models and thorough 
investigations of carpal motion, a better understanding of wrist kinematics was 
obtained for further pathologic assessment and surgical treatment.

DOI: 10.3390/life12101458
PMCID: PMC9605103
PMID: 36294894

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


549. Life (Basel). 2022 Sep 30;12(10):1526. doi: 10.3390/life12101526.

Long Term Results of Reduction Ascending Aortoplasty.

Trumello C(1), Giambuzzi I(1), Bargagna M(1), Tavana K(1), Bisogno A(1), Ascione 
G(1), Calabrese M(1), Castiglioni A(1)(2), Alfieri O(1), De Bonis M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, 20100 Milan, Italy.
(2)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, 20100 
Milan, Italy.

The aim of this retrospective study is to show medium-long-term results in terms 
of cardiac death and aortic events in patients undergoing reduction ascending 
aortoplasty between 1997 and 2009 in our hospital. The Fine and Grey model for 
competing risk analysis was performed for time to cardiac death, with 
non-cardiac death as the competing risk, and time to recurrence of both 
re-dilation (aortic diameter > 45 mm) and re-operation with overall death as the 
competing risk. Paired t-test was used to evaluate the change in aortic diameter 
from the post-operative values to follow-up. The population included 142 
patients. The mean pre-operative aortic diameter and the diameter at follow-up 
were respectively 46.5 ± 5.11 mm vs. 41.4 ± 5.55 mm (p-value < 0.001). At a mean 
follow-up of 11.6 ± 4.15 years, 11 patients (7.7%) required re-operation on the 
ascending aorta. At 16 years, the CIF of aortic-related events was 29.4 ± 7.2%; 
the freedom from cardiac death was 89.2 ± 3.7%. Ten patients (7%) died from 
cardiac causes but no one was aortic-related. The Fine and Grey analysis did not 
identify any significant predictors. This procedure is safe but might be 
justified only in high-risk patients or in those with advanced age/short life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.3390/life12101526
PMCID: PMC9605633
PMID: 36294961

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


550. Life (Basel). 2022 Oct 6;12(10):1546. doi: 10.3390/life12101546.

Climate Stressors on Growth, Yield, and Functional Biochemistry of two Brassica 
Species, Kale and Mustard.

Sehgal A(1), Reddy KR(1), Walne CH(1), Barickman TC(2), Brazel S(2), Chastain 
D(3), Gao W(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant and Soil Sciences, Mississippi State University, P.O. Box 
9555, Mississippi State, MS 39762, USA.
(2)North Mississippi Research and Extension Center, P.O. Box 1690, Verona, MS 
38879, USA.
(3)USDA ARS Sustainable Water Management, 4006 Old Leland Road, Stoneville, MS 
38756, USA.
(4)USDA UVB Monitoring and Research Program, Natural Resource Ecology 
Laboratory, and Department of Ecosystem Science and Sustainability, Colorado 
State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523, USA.

Due to climate change, the attainment of global food security is facing serious 
challenges in meeting the growing food demand. Abiotic stresses are the foremost 
limiting factors for agricultural productivity. However, not much information is 
available on the effect of multiple abiotic stresses on the morphological and 
biochemical aspects of kale and mustard. Therefore, an experiment was designed 
to study the effects of UV-B radiation, CO2 concentration, and high temperature 
on the growth, yield, and biochemistry of two Brassica species, namely B. 
oleracea L. var. acephala Winterbor F1 (hybrid kale) and B. juncea var. Green 
wave O.G. (mustard greens), which were grown under optimal nutrients and soil 
moisture conditions in soil-plant-atmosphere-research (SPAR) units. Two levels 
of UV-B radiation (0 and 10 kJ m-2 d-1), two concentrations of CO2 (420 and 720 
ppm), and two different temperature treatments (25/17 °C and 35/27 °C) were 
imposed 12 days after sowing (DAS). Several morphological and biochemical 
parameters were measured at harvest (40 DAS) in both species. All the traits 
declined considerably under individual and multi-stress conditions in both 
species except under elevated CO2 levels, which had a positive impact. 
Marketable fresh weight decreased by 64% and 58% in kale and mustard plants, 
respectively, growing under UV-B treatment. A slight increase in the chlorophyll 
content was observed in both species under the UV-B treatment alone and in 
combination with high temperature and elevated CO2. Understanding the impacts of 
high temperature, CO2, and UV-B radiation treatments on leafy vegetables, such 
as kale and mustard, can help to improve existing varieties to enhance 
resilience towards environmental stresses while simultaneously improving yield, 
morphology, and biochemistry in plants.

DOI: 10.3390/life12101546
PMCID: PMC9605623
PMID: 36294981

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


551. Life (Basel). 2022 Oct 20;12(10):1657. doi: 10.3390/life12101657.

Safety and Efficacy of Rivaroxaban for Extended-Phase Anticoagulation of 
Patients with Unprovoked or Recurrent Venous Thromboembolism: Real-Life Data 
from the MAC Project.

Bortoluzzi C(1), Bernardi E(2), Camporese G(3), Noventa F(4), Ceccato D(5), 
Tonello C(5), Vo Hong N(1), Campello E(6), Simion C(6), Imbalzano E(7), Di Micco 
P(8), Callegari E(9), Simioni P(6).

Author information:
(1)UO Internal Medicine San Giovanni e Paolo Hospital, 30121 Venice, Italy.
(2)Emergency Department ULSS2 "Marca Trevigiana", 31100 Treviso, Italy.
(3)General Medicine, Azienda Ospedaliera, 35100 Padova, Italy.
(4)QUOVADIS No-Profit Association, 35139 Padova, Italy.
(5)UO Angiology, Azienda Ospedaliera, 35122 Padova, Italy.
(6)Thromboembolic Disease Unit Azienda Ospedaliera, 35128 Padova, Italy.
(7)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Polyclinic Hospital 
University of Messina, 98124 Messina, Italy.
(8)Internal Medicine, ASL NA2 Nord-"A. Rizzoli" Polyclinic Hospital, Ischia, 
80122 Napoli, Italy.
(9)Internal Medicine, Ca' Foncello Hospital, 31100 Treviso, Italy.

Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a major cause of death in the world. After the 
acute-phase treatment, the optimal duration of anticoagulation is still 
debatable. The latest guidelines suggest maintaining long-term anticoagulation 
in patients with cancer-associated thrombosis (CAT) or with unprovoked VTE and a 
low bleeding risk. Methods: The MAC Project is an ongoing prospective-cohort, 
multi-center, observational study in Italy. The project aims to collect 
real-life clinical information in unselected patients given oral anticoagulants 
for VTE over a 5-year follow-up period. There were no exclusion criteria, except 
for life expectancy <6 months and refusal to sign the informed consent form or 
to attend the planned follow-up visit. All patients were followed-up 
prospectively with clinical controls scheduled at 3, 6, and 12 months after the 
index event, and then annually for up to 5 years. The primary efficacy and 
safety outcomes were symptomatic recurrent VTE and major bleeding. Results: We 
analyzed 450 consecutive patients treated with rivaroxaban and referred them to 
the MAC Project database for unprovoked or recurrent VTE. Of these, 267 (55%) 
were unprovoked VTE, and 377 (87%) were symptomatic. We followed up with the 
patients for a mean of 22 months (Q1 10.7; Q3 37.4 months). Recurrent VTE 
occurred in 12 patients on rivaroxaban treatment (IR 1.7 per 100 person-years). 
Males had more recurrence than women. During the follow-up period, we recorded 
13 (2.9%) major bleeding, 12 (2.7%) clinically relevant non-major bleeding, 8 
minor bleeding, and no fatal bleeding events. Overall, bleeding events occurred 
in 33 (7.3%) patients, most occurring within the first 2 years of treatment. In 
addition, we observed a statistically significant higher incidence of bleeding 
in patients with a baseline HAS-BLED score of 3 to 4 compared with those with a 
score of 0 to 2, with most events occurring during the first 3 months of 
treatment (RR 5.9). Discussion: Rivaroxaban appears to be safe and effective for 
the long-term treatment of patients with recurrent or unprovoked VTE. Our 
results match previously published data, and we are confident that the 
continuation of the follow-up for up to 5 years will confirm these outcomes.

DOI: 10.3390/life12101657
PMCID: PMC9604582
PMID: 36295091

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


552. Medicina (Kaunas). 2022 Sep 27;58(10):1354. doi: 10.3390/medicina58101354.

Aseptic Abscess Syndrome in Rheumatoid Arthritis Patient.

Owczarczyk-Saczonek A(1), Kasprowicz-Furmańczyk M(1), Kuna J(2), Klimek P(1), 
Krajewska-Włodarczyk M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Sexually Transmitted Diseases and Clinical 
Immunology, School of Medicine, Collegium Medicum, The University of Warmia and 
Mazury, Al. Wojska Polskiego 30, 10-229 Olsztyn, Poland.
(2)Department of Rheumatology, School of Medicine, Collegium Medicum, University 
of Warmia and Mazury, 10-900 Olsztyn, Poland.

Aseptic abscess syndrome (AAS) is a rare, potentially life-threatening disorder, 
with numerous features of neutrophilic dermatoses. The main symptoms include 
aseptic abscess-like collections in internal organs (spleen, liver, lungs), lack 
of microbes (bacteria, viruses, or parasites) after an exhaustive search, 
ineffectiveness of antibiotics, and high sensitivity to corticosteroid therapy. 
AAS is characterized by the development of deep, inflammatory abscesses and 
systemic symptoms (weight loss, abdominal pain, fever, and leukocytosis). They 
may be associated with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and autoimmune diseases. 
The patient in this study is a 67-year-old man, suffering from rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA), with numerous purulent abscesses in the mediastinum, within the 
subcutaneous tissue above the extension surfaces of the joints, and on the 
dorsum of the hands. The lesions are accompanied by bone destruction. The 
patient was treated with prednisone 40 mg and adalimumab, which resulted in a 
quick reduction of inflammatory markers and clinical improvement, as well as the 
healing and absorption of abscesses. Despite COVID-19 infection, treatment with 
remdesivir, prednisone, and adalimumab was continued, with the complete 
resolution of the lesions. AAS is difficult to recognize, so practitioners have 
to be aware of this condition, especially in patients with RA.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina58101354
PMCID: PMC9609381
PMID: 36295515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


553. Medicina (Kaunas). 2022 Oct 10;58(10):1428. doi: 10.3390/medicina58101428.

Comparison of Breast Cancer and Cervical Cancer in Uzbekistan and Korea: The 
First Report of The Uzbekistan-Korea Oncology Consortium.

Rim CH(1), Lee WJ(2), Musaev B(3), Volichevich TY(4), Pazlitdinovich ZY(4), Lee 
HY(5), Nigmatovich TM(4), Rim JS(6); Consortium of Republican Specialized 
Scientific Practical-Medical Center of Oncology and Radiology and South Korean 
Oncology Advisory Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Korea University Ansan Hospital, Korea 
University College of Medicine, Seoul 02841, Korea.
(2)Department of Healthcare Management, Gachon University, Seongnam-si 13120, 
Korea.
(3)Minister, Ministry of Health of the Republic of Uzbekistan, Tashkent 100086, 
Uzbekistan.
(4)Republican Specialized Scientific Practical-Medical Center of Oncology and 
Radiology, Farobiy Street 383, Tashkent 100179, Uzbekistan.
(5)Division of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Department of Surgery, Korea 
University Ansan Hospital, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul 02841, 
Korea.
(6)Department of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery, Korea University College of 
Medicine, Seoul 08308, Korea.

In general, as a country's economy, education level, and life expectancy 
increase, the incidence of cancer increases. This is because the peak incidence 
of cancer occurs in individuals in their 70s and 80s, and the health proportion 
of non-communicable diseases increases with the development of the living 
environment. Changes in diet, lifestyle and enhanced methods of detection 
contribute to an increase in cancer incidence as well. Recently, Uzbekistan has 
grown rapidly, and its incidence of cancer is also increasing. In the health 
management of cancer, not only treatment but also the identification and 
prevention of causes and effective screening should be considered. South Korea 
has a common ethnicity with Uzbekistan and has successfully performed national 
screening for seven major cancers over the past 20 years. The 5-year survival 
rate after cancer diagnosis in Korea was only 42.9% 20 years ago, but recently 
it has improved to 70.7%. We formed an advisory consortium in which oncologists 
from Uzbekistan and Korea could cooperate for cancer management in Uzbekistan. 
This advisory consortium intends to present the necessary considerations and 
recommendations for cancer management in Uzbekistan by examining the literature 
and cancer statistics of Uzbekistan and South Korea. In addition to the overall 
analysis, we identified and reviewed the major cancers with high morbidity in 
three categories in Uzbekistan: gynecological cancer (breast and cervical 
cancer), cancer common in men (lung and liver cancer), and gastrointestinal 
cancer (stomach and colorectal cancer). This review covers the general cancer 
statistics of Uzbekistan and a detailed review of gynecological cancer between 
two countries, and relevant recommendations.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina58101428
PMCID: PMC9610191
PMID: 36295588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


554. Medicina (Kaunas). 2022 Oct 13;58(10):1449. doi: 10.3390/medicina58101449.

Scientific Research Directions on the Histopathology and Immunohistochemistry of 
the Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma: A Scientometric Study.

Cocuz IG(1)(2)(3), Cocuz ME(4)(5), Repanovici A(6), Sabău AH(2)(3), Niculescu 
R(2)(3), Tinca AC(2)(3), Vunvulea V(7), Budin CE(3), Szoke AR(2)(3), Popelea 
MC(2), Moraru R(7)(8), Cotoi TC(9)(10), Cotoi OS(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Doctoral School of Medicine and Pharmacy, University of Medicine, Pharmacy, 
Sciences and Technology "George Emil Palade" of Targu Mures, 540142 Targu Mures, 
Romania.
(2)Pathology Department, Mures Clinical County Hospital, 540011 Targu Mures, 
Romania.
(3)Pathophysiology Department, University of Medicine, Pharmacy, Sciences and 
Technology "George Emil Palade" of Targu Mures, 540142 Targu Mures, Romania.
(4)Fundamental Prophylactic and Clinical Disciplines Department, Faculty of 
Medicine, Transilvania University of Brasov, 500003 Brașov, Romania.
(5)Clinical Infectious Diseases Hospital of Brasov, 500174 Brasov, Romania.
(6)Faculty of Product Design and Environment, Transilvania University of Brasov, 
500036 Brasov, Romania.
(7)Anatomy and Embryology Department, University of Medicine, Pharmacy, Sciences 
and Technology "George Emil Palade" of Targu Mures, 540142 Targu Mures, Romania.
(8)Department of Plastic Surgery, Mures Clinical County Hospital, 540011 Targu 
Mures, Romania.
(9)Pharmaceutical Technique Department, University of Medicine, Pharmacy, 
Sciences and Technology "George Emil Palade" of Targu Mures, 540142 Targu Mures, 
Romania.
(10)Pharmacy No. 2, Mures Clinical County Hospital, 540011 Targu Mures, Romania.

Introduction: Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) is one of the most 
frequently occurring types of cancer in humans. Scientometric research is an 
innovative method for analyzing the research trends in various domains, with 
great implications in the field of medicine. Materials and Methods: We searched 
the Web of Science database with the following established query terms: 
"Squamous cell carcinoma", "skin", and "immunohistochemistry". After applying 
the inclusion and exclusion criteria, a total of 76 articles were selected. The 
present study aims to analyze, based on the frequency of use of keywords with 
scientometric algorithms and map-based distributions, the trends of the research 
concerning cSCCs in 2017-2022. Results: A graphical representation based on 11 
scientometric maps presented the division of the keywords into seven clusters, 
from which seven categories of research interest were defined. The clusters 
represent a multidisciplinary approach to the diagnosis and treatment of cSCCs, 
cancer diagnostics, patient outcomes, histopathological importance, management 
of cSCCs, role of progression, and adequate treatment of and importance of 
immunohistochemistry for cSCCs. The distribution of the citations shows the 
importance of the available research on cSCCs by analyzing the first five 
most-cited articles included in our study in direct concordance with the seven 
defined clusters. Conclusion: The scientometric research method reveals the 
interest of research in the multidisciplinary approach used to obtain the best 
outcomes for the patient, including a targeted investigation, as well as 
diagnostic and treatment options. The trends in the research reveal that 
histopathological diagnostics and immunohistochemistry, combined with molecular 
techniques, are the most important tools used to establish a personalized 
diagnosis, thus increasing the quality of life and life expectancy for patients 
with cSCCs.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina58101449
PMCID: PMC9611311
PMID: 36295609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


555. Medicina (Kaunas). 2022 Oct 16;58(10):1463. doi: 10.3390/medicina58101463.

Management of Lung Cancer Presenting with Solitary Bone Metastasis.

Nistor CE(1), Ciuche A(1), Cucu AP(1), Nitipir C(2), Slavu C(2), Serban B(3), 
Cursaru A(3), Cretu B(3), Cirstoiu C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department Thoracic Surgery, Dr. Carol Davila Central Military Emergency 
University Hospital, 010825 Bucharest, Romania.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Carol Davila University Medicine & Pharmacy, 
Elias University Emergency Hospital, 011468 Bucharest, Romania.
(3)Department Orthopedic & Traumatology, Carol Davila University Medicine & 
Pharmacy, University Emergency Hospital, 050098 Bucharest, Romania.

Lung neoplasm is the main cause of cancer-related mortality, and bone metastasis 
is among the most common secondary tumors. The vast majority of patients also 
present with multiple bone metastases, which makes systemic and adjuvant pain 
therapy preferable to surgery. The optimal approach for a resectable 
non-small-cell lung tumor that also presents a unique, resectable bone 
metastasis is not fully established. The number of papers addressing this 
subject is small, and most are case reports; nevertheless, survival rates seem 
to increase with radical surgery. The sequencing of local versus systemic 
treatment should always be discussed within the multidisciplinary team that will 
choose the best approach for each patient. As targeted systemic therapies become 
more accessible, radical surgery, together with existing reconstructive methods, 
will lead to an increase in life expectancy and a better quality of life.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina58101463
PMCID: PMC9612355
PMID: 36295624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


556. Molecules. 2022 Oct 14;27(20):6883. doi: 10.3390/molecules27206883.

Synthesis of Phenylboronic Acid-Functionalized Magnetic Nanoparticles for 
Sensitive Soil Enzyme Assays.

Li C(1), Shi Z(2), Cai J(1), Wang P(1), Wang F(3), Ju M(1), Liu J(1), Yu Q(2).

Author information:
(1)National & Local Joint Engineering Research Center on Biomass Resource 
Utilization, College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Nankai 
University, Tianjin 300350, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Molecular Microbiology and Technology, Ministry of 
Education, Department of Microbiology, College of Life Sciences, Nankai 
University, Tianjin 300071, China.
(3)Institute of Agricultural Resources and Environment, Ningxia Academy of 
Agro-Forestry Science, Yinchuan 750002, China.

Soil enzymes, such as invertase, urease, acidic phosphatase and catalase, play 
critical roles in soil biochemical reactions and are involved in soil fertility. 
However, it remains a great challenge to efficiently concentrate soil enzymes 
and sensitively assess enzyme activity. In this study, we synthesized 
phenylboronic acid-functionalized magnetic nanoparticles to rapidly capture soil 
enzymes for sensitive soil enzyme assays. The iron oxide magnetic nanoparticles 
(MNPs) were firstly prepared by the co-precipitation method and then 
functionalized by (3-aminopropyl)triethoxysilane, polyethyleneimine and 
phenylboric acid in turn, obtaining the final nanoparticles (MNPPBA). 
Protein-capturing assays showed that the functionalized MNPs had a much higher 
protein-capturing capacity than the naked MNPs (56% versus 6%). Moreover, MNPPBA 
almost thoroughly captured the tested enzymes, i.e., urease, invertase, and 
alkaline phosphatase, from enzyme solutions. Based on MNPPBA, a soil enzyme 
assay method was developed by integration of enzyme capture, magnetic separation 
and trace enzyme analysis. The method was successfully applied in determining 
trace enzyme activity in rhizosphere soil. This study provides a strategy to 
sensitively determine soil enzyme activity for mechanistic investigation of soil 
fertility and plant-microbiome interaction.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules27206883
PMCID: PMC9611590
PMID: 36296473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


557. Molecules. 2022 Oct 18;27(20):7032. doi: 10.3390/molecules27207032.

Characterization and Optimization of Salep Mucilage Bionanocomposite Films 
Containing Allium jesdianum Boiss. Nanoliposomes for Antibacterial Food 
Packaging Utilization.

Ekrami M(1), Ekrami A(2), Hosseini MA(2), Emam-Djomeh Z(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Transfer Phenomena Laboratory (TPL), Department of Food Science, Technology 
and Engineering, College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, University of 
Tehran, Karaj 7787131587, Iran.
(2)Department of Nursing, University of Social Welfare and Rehabilitation 
Sciences, Tehran 1985713871, Iran.
(3)Functional Food Research Core, College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, 
University of Tehran, Karaj 7787131587, Iran.

This research aimed to characterize and compare the properties of nanoliposome 
(NLP)-loaded Salep mucilage-based bionanocomposite films containing free and 
encapsulated Allium jesdianum Boiss. essential oil (AEO). The mean size of 
nanoliposome containing Allium jesdianum Boiss. essential oil (NLP/AEO) was 
around 125 nm, the zeta potential value was about -35 mV, and the entrapment 
effectiveness was over 70% based on an evaluation of NLP prepared using the 
thin-film hydration and ultrasonic approach. Morphological studies further 
corroborated the findings of the Zetasizer investigation. When NLP/AEO has added 
to Salep mucilage-based bionanocomposite films, the tensile strength (TS), water 
solubility (WS), water content (WC), and water vapor permeability (WVP) were 
found to decrease. In contrast, the contact angle and oxygen permeability (O2P) 
elongation at break (EAB) increased. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and 
atomic force microscopy (AFM) images indicated that Salep mucilage-based 
bionanocomposite films added with NLP/AEO had a disordered inner network in the 
cross-section and a rough structure on the surface compared to the control film. 
Finally, an increase in antibacterial activity and a decrease in AEO release 
rate was observed for the Salep mucilage-based bionanocomposite films 
incorporated with NLP/AEO. Our results indicated that NLP/AEO, as an innovative 
sustained-release system, had the potential for using the developed 
antibacterial food packaging base on Salep mucilage for the shelf life extension 
of perishable food products.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules27207032
PMCID: PMC9609761
PMID: 36296625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


558. Sensors (Basel). 2022 Oct 16;22(20):7857. doi: 10.3390/s22207857.

A Simple and Effective Method for Measuring the Density of Non-Newtonian 
Thickened Tailings Slurry during Hydraulic Transport.

Gruszczyński MF(1), Kostecki S(2), Zieliński S(2)(3), Skrzypczak Z(2)(3), 
Stefanek P(3), Czaban S(1), Popczyk M(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmental Engineering, Wrocław University of Environmental 
and Life Sciences, Grunwaldzki Sq. 24, 50-363 Wrocław, Poland.
(2)Faculty of Civil Engineering, Wrocław University of Science and Technology, 
Wybrzeże Wyspiańskiego 27, 50-370 Wrocław, Poland.
(3)KGHM Polska Miedź S.A. Oddział Zakład Hydrotechniczny, Polkowicka 52, 59-305 
Rudna, Poland.
(4)Faculty of Mining, Safety Engineering and Industrial Automation, Silesian 
University of Technology, St. Akademicka 2, 44-100 Gliwice, Poland.

The extension of the Żelazny Most tailings store facility (TSF), which is the 
largest in Europe, requires the transport of large amounts of tailings, e.g., 
from the central area of the TSF reservoir to the new southern extension (SE). 
In order to use the mature fine tailings deposits located under the clarified 
water in the TSF reservoir, which were thickened in the process of natural 
sedimentation, it was decided to choose suction dredgers that collect tailings a 
few meters from under the water surface. The dredgers, which are most commonly 
used for the extraction of sand or gravel, showed the ability to pump fine 
flotation tailings slurry in the conducted tests. However, in order to reduce 
the costs of the entire operation, it was necessary to control the density of 
the slurry. The article presents a prototype installation for measuring the 
efficiency of the solid phase of the "in situ" dredging process in real time. 
The installation was designed for the needs of dredging a deposit of tailings 
that were thickened in the natural sedimentation process, and which had a 
particle size of below 63 μm. The installation consists of a flow meter, a 
densimeter, and a section for measuring the head loss of the flow of the slurry. 
The applied methodology allows for the current assessment of the dredger's 
operating parameters, which translates into a more effective-in terms of process 
efficiency-management of the dredger's work.

DOI: 10.3390/s22207857
PMCID: PMC9610879
PMID: 36298207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


559. Front Genet. 2022 Oct 10;13:959832. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2022.959832.
eCollection  2022.

Overexpression of TCERG1 as a prognostic marker in hepatocellular carcinoma: A 
TCGA data-based analysis.

Yang P(1), Liu H(1), Li Y(2), Gao Q(1), Chen X(1), Chang J(1), Li Y(1), Chen 
S(3), Dong R(3), Wu H(1), Liu C(1), Liu G(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Translational Cancer 
Research, Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu, China.
(2)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, First Affiliated Hospital of Bengbu 
Medical College, Bengbu, Anhui, China.
(3)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital of Bengbu 
Medical College, Bengbu, Anhui, China.

Objective: Transcription elongation factor 1 (TCERG1) is a nuclear protein 
consisted of multiple protein structural domains that plays an important role in 
regulating the transcription, extension, and splicing regulation of RNA 
polymerase II. However, the prognostic and immunological role of TCERG1 in human 
cancer remains unknown. In this study, we analyzed the expression of TCERG1 gene 
in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients, its clinical significance, and its 
possible prognostic value by bioinformatics. Methods: RNA sequencing data and 
clinicopathological characteristics of patients with HCC were collected from 
TCGA and CCLE databases. The Wilcoxon rank-sum test was used to analyze the 
expression of TCERG1 in HCC tissues and normal tissues. The protein levels of 
TCERG1 between normal and liver cancer tissues were analyzed by the Human 
Protein Atlas Database (HPA) (www.proteinatlas.org). Validation was performed 
using the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset of 167 samples. The expression 
of TCERG1 in HCC cells were verified by qRT-PCR, and CCK-8, scratch assay and 
Transwell assay were performed to detect cell proliferation, migration and 
invasion ability. According to the median value of TCERG1 expression, patients 
were divided into high and low subgroups. Logistic regression, GSEA enrichment, 
TME, and single-sample set gene enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) were performed to 
explore the effects of TCERG1 on liver cancer biological function and immune 
infiltrates. TCERG1 co-expression networks were studied through the CCLE 
database and the LinkedOmics database to analyze genes that interact with 
TCERG1. Results: The expression levels of TCERG1 in HCC patient tissues were 
significantly higher than in normal tissues. Survival analysis showed that high 
levels of TCERG1 expression were significantly associated with low survival 
rates in HCC patients. Multifactorial analysis showed that high TCERG1 
expression was an independent risk factor affecting tumor prognosis. This result 
was also verified in the GEO database. Cellular experiments demonstrated that 
cell proliferation, migration and invasion were inhibited after silencing of 
TCERG1 gene expression. Co-expression analysis revealed that CPSF6 and MAML1 
expression were positively correlated with TCERG1. GSEA showed that in samples 
with high TCERG1 expression, relevant signaling pathways associated with cell 
cycle, apoptosis, pathways in cancer and enriched in known tumors included Wnt 
signaling pathway, Vegf signaling pathway, Notch signaling pathway, MAPK 
signaling pathway and MTOR pathways. The expression of TCERG1 was positively 
correlated with tumor immune infiltrating cells (T helper two cells, T helper 
cells). Conclusion: TCERG1 gene is highly expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma 
tissues, which is associated with the poor prognosis of liver cancer, and may be 
one of the markers for the diagnosis and screening of liver cancer and the 
prediction of prognosis effect. At the same time, TCERG1 may also become a new 
target for tumor immunotherapy.

Copyright © 2022 Yang, Liu, Li, Gao, Chen, Chang, Li, Chen, Dong, Wu, Liu and 
Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2022.959832
PMCID: PMC9589486
PMID: 36299588

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


560. Front Pharmacol. 2022 Oct 3;13:975197. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2022.975197. 
eCollection 2022.

The functional role of p38 MAPK pathway in malignant brain tumors.

Grave N(1)(2), Scheffel TB(2)(3), Cruz FF(2), Rockenbach L(1)(2), Goettert 
MI(4)(5), Laufer S(5), Morrone FB(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Medicina e Ciências da Saúde, Escola de 
Medicina, Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, 
Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Farmacologia Aplicada, Escola de Ciências da Saúde e da Vida, 
Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande 
do Sul, Brazil.
(3)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Biologia Celular e Molecular, Escola de Ciências 
da Saúde e da Vida, Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto 
Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(4)Laboratorio de Cultura de Células, Programa de Pós-Graduação em 
Biotecnologia, Universidade do Vale do Taquari (Univates), Lajeado, Brazil.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical and Medicinal Chemistry, Institute of Pharmacy, 
Eberhard Karls University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.

Gliomas are extremely debilitating malignant brain tumors with very limited 
response to therapies. The initiation and progression of gliomas can be 
attributed to several molecular abnormalities, such as mutations in important 
regulatory networks. In this regard, the mitogen-activated protein kinases 
(MAPKs) arise as key signaling pathways involved in cell proliferation, 
survival, and differentiation. MAPK pathway has been altered in most glial 
tumors. In glioma cells, the activation of p38 MAPK contributes to tumor 
invasion and metastasis and is positively correlated with tumor grade, being 
considered a potential oncogenic factor contributing to brain tumorigenesis and 
chemotherapy resistance. Hence, a better understanding of glioma pathogenesis is 
essential to the advancement of therapies that provide extended life expectancy 
for glioma patients. This review aims to explore the role of the p38 MAPK 
pathway in the genesis and progression of malignant brain tumors.

Copyright © 2022 Grave, Scheffel, Cruz, Rockenbach, Goettert, Laufer and 
Morrone.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2022.975197
PMCID: PMC9589890
PMID: 36299892

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


561. Front Psychol. 2022 Oct 10;13:1025747. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.1025747. 
eCollection 2022.

News consumption and green habits on the use of circular packaging in online 
shopping in Taiwan: An extension of the theory of planned behavior.

Lee YC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of International Business, Chien Hsin University of Science and 
Technology, Taoyuan, Taiwan.

The COVID-19 pandemic is far from over as outbreaks continue to spread around 
the world. The demand for packaging bags and cartons has also risen sharply in 
e-commerce shopping and takeaways because consumers have changed their shopping 
habits during the pandemic. The primary purpose of this study was to explore the 
factors prompting consumers to accept and use circular packaging when they shop 
online. From January to February 2022, a total of 373 online questionnaires were 
completed. The results showed that news consumption positively affected 
environmental attitudes, subjective norms, perceived behavioral control and 
circular packaging behavior intentions. Environmental attitudes, subjective 
norms, perceived behavioral control also affected the intention of circular 
packaging. Furthermore, news consumption influenced circular packaging 
behavioral intentions through environmental attitudes and green habits. 
Developing green habits in people's daily lives will be of great help in guiding 
consumers to engage in other sustainable behaviors that are beneficial to life.

Copyright © 2022 Lee.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.1025747
PMCID: PMC9588972
PMID: 36300050

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


562. Hum Mol Genet. 2023 Mar 20;32(7):1090-1101. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddac266.

Genistein improves renal disease in a mouse model of nephropathic cystinosis: a 
comparison study with cysteamine.

De Leo E(1), Taranta A(1), Raso R(1), Polishchuk E(2), D'Oria V(3), Pezzullo 
M(4), Goffredo BM(5), Cairoli S(5), Bellomo F(1), Battafarano G(6), Camassei 
FD(7), Del Fattore A(6), Polishchuk R(2), Emma F(1)(8), Rega LR(1).

Author information:
(1)Renal Diseases Research Unit, Genetics and Rare Diseases Research Area, 
Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, IRCCS, 00146 Rome, Italy.
(2)Telethon Institute of Genetics and Medicine, 80078 Pozzuoli, Italy.
(3)Research Laboratories, Confocal Microscopy Core Facility, Bambino Gesù 
Children's Hospital, IRCCS, 00146 Rome, Italy.
(4)Core Facilities, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, IRCCS, 00146 Rome, Italy.
(5)Department of Pediatric Specialties and Liver-Kidney Transplantation, 
Division of Metabolic Biochemistry and Drug Biology, Bambino Gesù Children's 
Hospital, IRCCS, 00146 Rome, Italy.
(6)Bone Physiopathology Research Unit, Genetics and Rare Diseases Research 
Division, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, IRCCS, 00146 Rome, Italy.
(7)Department of Laboratories-Pathology Unit, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, 
00165 Rome, Italy.
