PMCID: PMC9739093
PMID: 36498245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


151. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Dec 6;19(23):16361. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph192316361.

Tele-Medicine Based and Self-Administered Interactive Exercise Program 
(Tele-Exergame) to Improve Cognition in Older Adults with Mild Cognitive 
Impairment or Dementia: A Feasibility, Acceptability, and Proof-of-Concept 
Study.

Park C(1)(2)(3), Mishra RK(1)(4), York MK(5), Enriquez A(4), Lindsay A(4), 
Barchard G(4), Vaziri A(4), Najafi B(1).

Author information:
(1)Interdisciplinary Consortium on Advanced Motion Performance (iCAMP), Michael 
E. DeBakey Department of Surgery, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, 
USA.
(2)VA's Health Services Research and Development Service (HSR&D), Center for 
Innovations in Quality, Effectiveness, and Safety, Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical 
Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(3)Big Data Scientist Training Enhancement Program, VA Office of Research and 
Development, Washington, DC 20420, USA.
(4)The BioSensics LLC, Newton, MA 02458, USA.
(5)Neurology and Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Improved life expectancy is increasing the number of older adults who suffer 
from motor-cognitive decline. Unfortunately, conventional balance exercise 
programs are not tailored to patients with cognitive impairments, and exercise 
adherence is often poor due to unsupervised settings. This study describes the 
acceptability and feasibility of a sensor-based in-home interactive exercise 
system, called tele-Exergame, used by older adults with mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI) or dementia. Our tele-Exergame is specifically designed to 
improve balance and cognition during distractive conditioning while a 
telemedicine interface remotely supervises the exercise, and its exercises are 
gamified balance tasks with explicit augmented visual feedback. Fourteen adults 
with MCI or dementia (Age = 68.1 ± 5.4 years, 12 females) participated and 
completed exergame twice weekly for six weeks at their homes. Before and after 6 
weeks, participants' acceptance was assessed by Technology Acceptance Model 
(TAM) questionnaire, and participants' cognition and anxiety level were 
evaluated by the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) and Beck Anxiety Inventory 
(BAI), respectively. Results support acceptability, perceived benefits, and 
positive attitudes toward the use of the system. The findings of this study 
support the feasibility, acceptability, and potential benefit of tele-Exergame 
to preserve cognitive function among older adults with MCI and dementia.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph192316361
PMCID: PMC9739527
PMID: 36498431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: B.N., Co-Author, is serving as a consultant for 
BioSensics LLC, manufacturers of some of the tools used in this study. However, 
he was also not involved in recruitment and data analysis from this study. 
R.k.M. is now with BioSensics LLC; however, his contribution to this study was 
limited to when he was a postdoc associate with Baylor College of Medicine. A.E, 
A.L., G.B. and A.V. are with BioSensics LLC. However, their contribution was 
limited to technology design, technical support, and interpretation of sensor 
data. The other authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence 
of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a 
potential conflict of interest.


152. Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Nov 24;23(23):14692. doi: 10.3390/ijms232314692.

An Intestinal Symbiotic Bacterial Strain of Oscheius chongmingensis Modulates 
Host Viability at Both Global and Post-Transcriptional Levels.

Zhan C(1), Chen L(1), Guo D(1), Sun J(1), Duan Y(1), Zhang P(1), Li P(1), Ma 
L(1), Xu M(1), Wang Y(1), Bao H(1), Gao G(1), Liu L(2), Zhang K(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, 
China.
(2)National Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Germplasm Enhancement, Key 
Laboratory of Biology and Germplasm Enhancement of Horticultural Crop (East 
China), Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, College of Horiticulture, 
Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, China.

A rhabditid entomopathogenic nematode (EPN), Oscheius chongmingensis, has a 
stable symbiotic relationship with the bacterial strain Serratia nematodiphila 
S1 harbored in its intestines and drastically reduced viability when associated 
with a non-native strain (186) of the same bacterial species. This nematode is 
thus a good model for understanding the molecular mechanisms and interactions 
involved between a nematode host and a member of its intestinal microbiome. 
Transcriptome analysis and RNA-seq data indicated that expression levels of the 
majority (8797, 87.59%) of mRNAs in the non-native combination of O. 
chongmingensis and S. nematodiphila 186 were downregulated compared with the 
native combination, including strain S1. Accordingly, 88.84% of the total 
uniq-sRNAs mapped in the O. chongmingensis transcriptome were specific between 
the two combinations. Six DEGs, including two transcription factors (oc-daf-16 
and oc-goa-1) and four kinases (oc-pdk-1, oc-akt-1, oc-rtk, and oc-fak), as well 
as an up-regulated micro-RNA, oc-miR-71, were found to demonstrate the 
regulatory mechanisms underlying diminished host viability induced by a 
non-native bacterial strain. Oc-rtk and oc-fak play key roles in the viability 
regulation of O. chongmingensis by positively mediating the expression of 
oc-daf-16 to indirectly impact its longevity and stress tolerances and by 
negatively regulating the expression of oc-goa-1 to affect the olfactory 
chemotaxis and fecundity. In response to the stress of invasion by the 
non-native strain, the expression of oc-miR-71 in the non-native combination was 
upregulated to downregulate the expression of its targeting oc-pdk-1, which 
might improve the localization and activation of the transcription factor DAF-16 
in the nucleus to induce longevity extension and stress resistance enhancement 
to some extent. Our findings provide novel insight into comprehension of how 
nematodes deal with the stress of encountering novel potential bacterial 
symbionts at the physiological and molecular genetic levels and contribute to 
improved understanding of host-symbiont relationships generally.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms232314692
PMCID: PMC9739912
PMID: 36499019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


153. Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Nov 28;23(23):14856. doi: 10.3390/ijms232314856.

Impact of Caterpillar Increased Feeding Rates on Reduction of Bt Susceptibility.

Dhammi A(1), van Krestchmar JB(1), Zhu J(1), Ponnusamy L(1), Gould F(1), Reisig 
D(2), Kurtz RW(3), Roe RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology, College of Agriculture and Life 
Sciences, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC 27695, USA.
(2)Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology, Vernon G. James Research & 
Extension Center, Plymouth, NC 27962, USA.
(3)Cotton Incorporated, 6399 Weston Parkway, Cary, NC 27513, USA.

The use of insect-resistant transgenic crops producing Bacillus thuringiensis 
protein Cry toxins (Bt) to control caterpillars is wide-spread. Development of a 
mechanism to prevent Bt from reaching its target site in the digestive system 
could result in Bt resistance and resistance to other insecticides active per 
os. Increased feeding rates by increasing temperature in tobacco budworms, 
Chloridea virescens, and bollworms, Helicoverpa zea, decreased Bt Cry1Ac 
susceptibility and mortality. The same was found in C. virescens for Bollgard II 
plant extract containing Bt Cry1Ac and Cry2Ab2 toxins. Furthermore, H. zea from 
the same inbred laboratory colony that fed faster independent of temperature 
manipulation were less susceptible to Bt intoxication. A laboratory derived C. 
virescens Bt resistant strain demonstrated a higher feeding rate on non-Bt 
artificial diet than the parental, Bt susceptible strain. A laboratory-reared Bt 
resistant fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda, strain also fed faster on non-Bt 
diet compared to Bt susceptible caterpillars of the same species, both 
originally collected from corn. The studies in toto and the literature reviewed 
support the hypothesis that increased feeding rate is a behavioral mechanism for 
reducing caterpillar susceptibility to Bt. Its possible role in resistance needs 
further study.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms232314856
PMCID: PMC9735560
PMID: 36499184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


154. Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Nov 30;23(23):15039. doi: 10.3390/ijms232315039.

Inflammaging: Implications in Sarcopenia.

Antuña E(1)(2)(3), Cachán-Vega C(1)(2)(3), Bermejo-Millo JC(1)(2)(3), Potes 
Y(1)(2)(3), Caballero B(1)(2)(3), Vega-Naredo I(1)(2)(3), Coto-Montes 
A(1)(2)(3), Garcia-Gonzalez C(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Del Principado de Asturias (ISPA), Av. 
Del Hospital Universitario, 33011 Oviedo, Spain.
(2)Department of Morphology and Cell Biology, University of Oviedo, 33006 
Oviedo, Spain.
(3)Instituto de Neurociencias del Principado de Asturias (INEUROPA), 33006 
Oviedo, Spain.

In a world in which life expectancy is increasing, understanding and promoting 
healthy aging becomes a contemporary demand. In the elderly, a sterile, chronic 
and low-grade systemic inflammation known as "inflammaging" is linked with many 
age-associated diseases. Considering sarcopenia as a loss of strength and mass 
of skeletal muscle related to aging, correlations between these two terms have 
been proposed. Better knowledge of the immune system players in skeletal muscle 
would help to elucidate their implications in sarcopenia. Characterizing the 
activators of damage sensors and the downstream effectors explains the inference 
with skeletal muscle performance. Sarcopenia has also been linked to chronic 
diseases such as diabetes, metabolic syndrome and obesity. Implications of 
inflammatory signals from these diseases negatively affect skeletal muscle. 
Autophagic mechanisms are closely related with the inflammasome, as autophagy 
eliminates stress signaling sent by damage organelles, but also acts with an 
immunomodulatory function affecting immune cells and cytokine release. The use 
of melatonin, an antioxidant, ROS scavenger and immune and autophagy modulator, 
or senotherapeutic compounds targeting senescent cells could represent 
strategies to counteract inflammation. This review aims to present the many 
factors regulating skeletal muscle inflammaging and their major implications in 
order to understand the molecular mechanisms involved in sarcopenia.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms232315039
PMCID: PMC9740553
PMID: 36499366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


155. Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Dec 1;23(23):15103. doi: 10.3390/ijms232315103.

Biological Age Predictors: The Status Quo and Future Trends.

Erema VV(1), Yakovchik AY(1), Kashtanova DA(1), Bochkaeva ZV(1), Ivanov MV(1), 
Sosin DV(1), Matkava LR(1), Yudin VS(1), Makarov VV(1), Keskinov AA(1), Kraevoy 
SA(1), Yudin SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Federal State Budgetary Institution, Centre for Strategic Planning and 
Management of Biomedical Health Risks, Federal Medical Biological Agency, 
Pogodinskaya Str. 10 Bld. 1, Moscow 119121, Russia.

There is no single universal biomarker yet to estimate overall health status and 
longevity prospects. Moreover, a consensual approach to the very concept of 
aging and the means of its assessment are yet to be developed. Markers of aging 
could facilitate effective health control, more accurate life expectancy 
estimates, and improved health and quality of life. Clinicians routinely use 
several indicators that could be biomarkers of aging. Duly validated in a large 
cohort, models based on a combination of these markers could provide a highly 
accurate assessment of biological age and the pace of aging. Biological aging is 
a complex characteristic of chronological age (usually), health-to-age 
concordance, and medically estimated life expectancy. This study is a review of 
the most promising techniques that could soon be used in routine clinical 
practice. Two main selection criteria were applied: a sufficient sample size and 
reliability based on validation. The selected biological age calculators were 
grouped according to the type of biomarker used: (1) standard clinical and 
laboratory markers; (2) molecular markers; and (3) epigenetic markers. The most 
accurate were the calculators, which factored in a variety of biomarkers. 
Despite their demonstrated effectiveness, most of them require further 
improvement and cannot yet be considered for use in standard clinical practice. 
To illustrate their clinical application, we reviewed their use during the 
COVID-19 pandemic.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms232315103
PMCID: PMC9739540
PMID: 36499430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


156. Materials (Basel). 2022 Dec 3;15(23):8636. doi: 10.3390/ma15238636.

Processing and Characterization of a New Quaternary Alloy Ti(10)Mo(8)Nb(6)Zr for 
Potential Biomedical Applications.

Carobolante JPA(1), Pereira Júnior A(1), Bortolini Junior C(1), Barboza da Silva 
K(1), Sabino RM(2), Popat KC(2)(3)(4), Claro APRA(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Engineering and Sciences, Guaratinguetá Campus, São Paulo State 
University (Unesp), Guaratinguetá 12516-410, Brazil.
(2)School of Advanced Materials Discovery, Colorado State University, Fort 
Collins, CO 80523, USA.
(3)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Colorado State University, Fort 
Collins, CO 80523, USA.
(4)School of Biomedical Engineering, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 
80523, USA.

The study of new metallic biomaterials for application in bone tissue repair has 
improved due to the increase in life expectancy and the aging of the world 
population. Titanium alloys are one of the main groups of biomaterials for these 
applications, and beta-type titanium alloys are more suitable for long-term bone 
implants. The objective of this work was to process and characterize a new 
Ti10Mo8Nb6Zr beta alloy. Alloy processing involves arc melting, heat treatment, 
and cold forging. The characterization techniques used in this study were X-ray 
fluorescence spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction, differential scanning calorimetry, 
optical microscopy, microhardness measurements, and pulse excitation technique. 
In vitro studies using adipose-derived stem cells (ADSC) were performed to 
evaluate the cytotoxicity and cell viability after 1, 4, and 7 days. The results 
showed that the main phase during the processing route was the beta phase. At 
the end of processing, the alloy showed beta phase, equiaxed grains with an 
average size of 228.7 µm, and low Young's modulus (83 GPa). In vitro studies 
revealed non-cytotoxicity and superior cell viability compared to CP Ti. The 
addition of zirconium led to a decrease in the beta-transus temperature and 
Young's modulus and improved the biocompatibility of the alloy. Therefore, the 
Ti10Mo8Nb6Zr alloy is a promising candidate for application in the biomedical 
field.

DOI: 10.3390/ma15238636
PMCID: PMC9737621
PMID: 36500131

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


157. Molecules. 2022 Dec 6;27(23):8610. doi: 10.3390/molecules27238610.

Effect of Celeriac Pulp Maceration by Rhizopus sp. Pectinase on Juice Quality.

Jaworska G(1), Szarek N(1)(2), Hanus P(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. Food Technology and Human Nutrition, Institute of Food and Nutrition 
Technology, College of Life Sciences, University of Rzeszow, St. Zelwerowicza 4, 
35-601 Rzeszów, Poland.
(2)Doctoral School of the University of Rzeszów, University of Rzeszów, St. 
Rejtana 16C, 35-959 Rzeszów, Poland.

Peeled and unpeeled celeriac pulp was macerated with pectinase from Rhizopus sp. 
at 25 °C for 30 and 60 min. Peeling, enzyme addition, and maceration time 
significantly affected the quality characteristics of the juice. The juice 
obtained from peeled celeriac was characterized by higher pressing yield, 
sucrose content, and antioxidant activity (ABTS*+ and DPPH*). The juice from the 
unpeeled root had higher extract, fructose, glucose, total polyphenols, 
antioxidant activity (FRAP), total phenolic acids, and total luteolin content. 
Applying the enzyme to celeriac pulp had no significant effect on the extract's 
content, analyzed sugars, and antioxidant activity of the juices (ABTS*+). 
Adding pectinase to unpeeled celery pulp resulted in a 2-10% increase in 
pressing efficiency, compared to the control sample held at 25 °C for the same 
period. Maceration of the enzyme-peeled pulp increased the antioxidant potential 
of the juice by 22% in the FRAP method. In contrast, in all juices analyzed, 
unpeeled and peeled roots increased antioxidant activity measured by the DPPH* 
method by 24-57% and total phenolic acids by 20-57%. The time of holding the 
pulp at 25 °C was an important factor, and its extension resulted in a decrease 
in the values of most of the analyzed parameters, with the exception of pressing 
efficiency and fructose content in all analyzed juice samples. Short-term, 
30-min maceration of peeled and unpeeled celery pulp with pectinase from 
Rhizopus sp. had a significant effect on increasing juice yield, antioxidant 
activity, and phenolic compound content.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules27238610
PMCID: PMC9736636
PMID: 36500702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


158. Molecules. 2022 Dec 6;27(23):8625. doi: 10.3390/molecules27238625.

Zebrafish Models for Skeletal Muscle Senescence: Lessons from Cell Cultures and 
Rodent Models.

Ichii S(1), Matsuoka I(2), Okazaki F(1)(3), Shimada Y(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Bioresources, Mie University, Tsu, Mie 514-8507, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Regional Innovation Studies, Mie University, Tsu, Mie 
514-8507, Japan.
(3)Zebrafish Drug Screening Center, Mie University, Tsu, Mie 514-8507, Japan.
(4)Department of Bioinformatics, Mie University Advanced Science Research 
Promotion Center, Tsu, Mie 514-8507, Japan.
(5)Department of Integrative Pharmacology, Mie University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Tsu, Mie 514-8507, Japan.

Human life expectancy has markedly increased over the past hundred years. 
Consequently, the percentage of elderly people is increasing. Aging and 
sarcopenic changes in skeletal muscles not only reduce locomotor activities in 
elderly people but also increase the chance of trauma, such as bone fractures, 
and the incidence of other diseases, such as metabolic syndrome, due to reduced 
physical activity. Exercise therapy is currently the only treatment and 
prevention approach for skeletal muscle aging. In this review, we aimed to 
summarize the strategies for modeling skeletal muscle senescence in cell 
cultures and rodents and provide future perspectives based on zebrafish models. 
In cell cultures, in addition to myoblast proliferation and myotube 
differentiation, senescence induction into differentiated myotubes is also 
promising. In rodents, several models have been reported that reflect the 
skeletal muscle aging phenotype or parts of it, including the accelerated aging 
models. Although there are fewer models of skeletal muscle aging in zebrafish 
than in mice, various models have been reported in recent years with the 
development of CRISPR/Cas9 technology, and further advancements in the field 
using zebrafish models are expected in the future.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules27238625
PMCID: PMC9739860
PMID: 36500717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


159. Nanomaterials (Basel). 2022 Nov 25;12(23):4189. doi: 10.3390/nano12234189.

Effect of Chitosan Coating for Efficient Encapsulation and Improved Stability 
under Loading Preparation and Storage Conditions of Bacillus Lipopeptides.

Kang BR(1), Park JS(2), Ryu GR(3), Jung WJ(1)(3), Choi JS(3), Shin HM(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmentally-Friendly Agriculture, Chonnam National 
University, Gwangju 61186, Republic of Korea.
(2)Gwangju Metropolitan City Agricultural Extension Center, Gwangju Metropolitan 
City 61945, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Agricultural Chemistry, Chonnam National University, Gwangju 
61186, Republic of Korea.

This study aims to evaluate the effect of chitosan coating on the formation and 
properties of Bacillus cyclic lipopeptide (CLP)-loaded liposomes. A 
nanoencapsulation strategy for a chitosan-coated liposomal system using lecithin 
phospholipids for the entrapment of antibiotic CLP prepared from Bacillus 
subtilis KB21 was developed. The produced chitosan-coated CLP liposome had mean 
size in the range of 118.47-121.67 nm. Transmission electron microscopy showed 
the spherical-shaped vesicles. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy findings 
indicated the successful coating of the produced CLP-loaded liposomes by the 
used chitosan. Liposomes coated with 0.2% and 0.5% chitosan concentration 
decreased the surface tension by 7.3-12.1%, respectively, and increased the CLP 
content by 15.1-27.0%, respectively, compared to the uncoating liposomes. The 
coated concentration of chitosan influenced their CLP loading encapsulation 
efficiency and release kinetics. The physicochemical results of the dynamic 
light scattering, CLP capture efficiency and long-term storage capacity of 
nanocapsules increased with chitosan coating concentration. Furthermore, the 
chitosan-coated liposomes exhibited a significant enhancement in the stability 
of CLP loading liposomes. These results may suggest the potential application of 
chitosan-coated liposomes as a carrier of antibiotics in the development of the 
functional platform.

DOI: 10.3390/nano12234189
PMCID: PMC9737214
PMID: 36500812

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


160. Nutrients. 2022 Nov 27;14(23):5046. doi: 10.3390/nu14235046.

Mediation of Healthy Behaviour on the Association of Frailty with Respiratory 
Diseases Mortality among 0.4 Million Participants: A Prospective Cohort Study 
from UK Biobank.

Du M(1), Tao L(2), Liu M(1), Liu J(1)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, Beijing 100191, China.
(2)Research Center of Clinical Epidemiology, Peking University Third Hospital, 
Beijing 100191, China.
(3)Institute for Global Health and Development, Peking University, Beijing 
100871, China.
(4)Global Center for Infectious Disease and Policy Research & Global Health and 
Infectious Diseases Group, Peking University, Beijing 100191, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Reproductive Health, National Health and Family Planning 
Commission of the People's Republic of China, Beijing 100191, China.

The mutual relationship between frailty and healthy behaviour and its effect on 
respiratory diseases mortality remains largely unknown; this study aims to 
supplement related analysis on it by using a large sample cohort study. We 
included 411,987 participants from the UK Biobank study (2006-2021), and 
measured participants' frailty phenotype and healthy behaviour index by using 
questionnaires and physical measurement. Mortality from respiratory diseases 
were obtained through linkage to registries. We used the cox proportional 
hazards model to explore the association of frailty with respiratory diseases 
mortality, and calculated the mediation proportion of the healthy behaviour. 
During a median follow-up of 12.48 years, and after adjustment for other 
covariates and healthy behaviour index, when compared with non-frail 
participants, being frail was associated with 2.68 times, 3.27 times, and 3.31 
times higher risk of total respiratory diseases mortality, influenza and 
pneumonia mortality and chronic lower respiratory diseases mortality, 
respectively. The attenuated proportions mediated by healthy behaviour were 5.1% 
(95% CI: 4.4%, 5.9%), 3.0% (95% CI: 2.1%, 4.2%) and 6.0% (95% CI: 4.9%, 7.4%), 
respectively. Compared with non-frail individuals with four or five healthy 
behaviours, frail individuals with no or one healthy behaviour had higher risks 
of total respiratory diseases mortality (aHR = 4.59; 95% CI: 3.27, 6.45), 
influenza and pneumonia mortality (aHR = 4.55; 95% CI: 2.30, 9.03), as well as 
chronic lower respiratory diseases mortality (aHR = 12.70; 95% CI: 5.76, 27.96). 
Adherence to a healthy lifestyle therefore represents a potentially modifiable 
target for improving the harmful impact of frailty on reduced life expectancy as 
a result of respiratory diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/nu14235046
PMCID: PMC9736014
PMID: 36501077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


161. Nutrients. 2022 Dec 2;14(23):5139. doi: 10.3390/nu14235139.

The Effect of Prebiotics and Oral Anti-Diabetic Agents on Gut Microbiome in 
Patients with Type 2 Diabetes: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis of 
Randomised Controlled Trials.

Ojo O(1), Wang X(2), Ojo OO(3), Brooke J(4), Jiang Y(2), Dong Q(2), Thompson 
T(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, Avery Hill Campus, University of Greenwich, London 
SE9 2UG, UK.
(2)The School of Nursing, Soochow University, Suzhou 215006, China.
(3)Smoking Cessation Department, University Hospital, London SE13 6LH, UK.
(4)Faculty of Health, Education and Life Sciences, Birmingham City University, 
Birmingham B15 3TN, UK.
(5)School of Human Sciences, Avery Hill Campus, University of Greenwich, London 
SE9 2UG, UK.

Background: Nutritional interventions such as the use of prebiotics can promote 
eubiosis of gut microbiome and maintain glucose homeostasis in patients with 
type 2 diabetes (T2D). However, it would appear that results of the effects of 
prebiotics on the community of microbes in the gut are not consistent. Aim: To 
examine the effect of prebiotics and oral antidiabetic agents on gut microbiome 
in patients with T2D. Methods: The PRISMA Extension Statement for Systematic 
Reviews and Network Meta-analyses was used to conduct this review. Searches were 
carried out in EMBASE, EBSCO-host databases, Google Scholar and the reference 
lists of articles for studies that are relevant to the research question, from 
database inception to 15 August 2022. The search strategy was based on PICOS 
framework. Network Meta-analysis which allows the estimation of relative 
treatment effects by combing both direct trial evidence (e.g., treatment A vs. 
treatment B) and indirect evidence was conducted. Furthermore, pairwise 
meta-analysis was also carried out to estimate effect sizes based on 
head-to-head comparisons of treatments and/or control conditions. Results: 
Findings of the Network meta-analysis revealed that prebiotics significantly 
reduced HbA1c compared with control and the SMD was −0.43 [95% CI, −0.77, −0.08; 
p = 0.02], whereas there was no significant difference (p > 0.05) between the 
other treatments and control. In addition, anti-diabetic agents including 
glipizide and metformin also reduced HbA1C, although these were not 
significantly different (p > 0.05) from control. While prebiotics promoted 
Bifidobacterium and Akkermansia, the improvements were not significantly 
different (p > 0.05) from control. On the other hand, metformin decreased the 
relative abundance of Bifidobacterium, but increased Lactobacillus and 
Akkermansia, although the differences were not significant (p > 0.05) compared 
with control. With respect to fasting blood glucose and BMI, the effects of 
prebiotics and oral antidiabetic agents did not differ significantly (p > 0.05) 
from controls. Conclusions: The findings of the systematic review and Network 
meta-analysis demonstrated prebiotics were significantly (p < 0.05) more 
effective in reducing HbA1c than control in patients with T2D. However, the 
effects of prebiotics and oral antidiabetic agents did not differ significantly 
(p > 0.05) from the controls in relation to fasting blood glucose, post-prandial 
blood glucose, body mass index and the genera of gut bacteria examined. More 
studies are required to fully investigate the effects of prebiotics and oral 
antidiabetic agents in patients with T2D

DOI: 10.3390/nu14235139
PMCID: PMC9739188
PMID: 36501168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There is no conflict of interest.


162. Polymers (Basel). 2022 Nov 23;14(23):5077. doi: 10.3390/polym14235077.

Active Films Based on Starch and Wheat Gluten (Triticum vulgare) for Shelf-Life 
Extension of Carrots.

Rivera Leiva AF(1), Hernández-Fernández J(2)(3)(4), Ortega Toro R(1).

Author information:
(1)Food Packaging and Shelf-Life Research Group (FP&SL), Food Engineering 
Department, Universidad de Cartagena, Cartagena de Indias 130015, Colombia.
(2)Chemistry Program, Department of Natural and Exact Sciences, San Pablo 
Campus, University of Cartagena, Cartagena 130015, Colombia.
(3)Department of Natural and Exact Sciences, Universidad de la Costa, Calle 58 # 
55-66, Barranquilla 080002, Colombia.
(4)Chemical Engineering Program, School of Engineering, Universidad Tecnológica 
de Bolivar, Parque Industrial y Tecnológico Carlos Vélez Pombo km 1 Vía, Turbaco 
130001, Colombia.

The use of biodegradable biopolymers with the incorporation of active 
ingredients has been considered as an alternative to extend the useful life of 
food. Therefore, the objective of this research was to develop active films 
based on starch and wheat gluten, containing cinnamon and turmeric essential 
oils by using the solvent casting method. Different film formulations were made 
from wheat starch, gluten, glycerol, and essential oils of cinnamon and 
turmeric. The films were characterized according to their morphology, optical, 
thermal, antioxidant, and barrier properties. Subsequently, the active 
properties on baby carrots regarding weight loss, appearance, and fungal growth 
were evaluated. The results indicated that the starch-based films showed a 
slight decrease in moisture content with the addition of essential oils (up to 
13.29%), but at the same time showed a significant reduction in water solubility 
(up to 28.4%). Gluten-based films did not present significant differences in 
these parameters, although the solubility in water tended to increase (up to 
13.15%) with the addition of essential oils. In general, the films presented 
good thermal stability and antioxidant capacity, and in the carrot coating test, 
a decrease in weight loss of up to 44.44% and 43.33% was observed for the 
coatings based on starch and gluten with the addition of turmeric essential oil, 
respectively. Finally, films developed with cinnamon and turmeric essential oils 
are potential candidates for the design of biodegradable active packaging.

DOI: 10.3390/polym14235077
PMCID: PMC9739193
PMID: 36501472

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


163. Sensors (Basel). 2022 Nov 23;22(23):9067. doi: 10.3390/s22239067.

In-Home Older Adults' Activity Pattern Monitoring Using Depth Sensors: A Review.

Momin MS(1)(2), Sufian A(3), Barman D(2), Dutta P(2), Dong M(4), Leo M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, Kaliachak College, University of Gour Banga, 
Malda 732101, India.
(2)Department of Computer & System Sciences, Visva-Bharati University, Bolpur 
731235, India.
(3)Department of Computer Science, University of Gour Banga, Malda 732101, 
India.
(4)Department of Science and Informatics, Muroran Institute of Technology, 
Muroran 050-8585, Hokkaido, Japan.
(5)National Research Council of Italy, Institute of Applied Sciences and 
Intelligent Systems, 73100 Lecce, Italy.

The global population is aging due to many factors, including longer life 
expectancy through better healthcare, changing diet, physical activity, etc. We 
are also witnessing various frequent epidemics as well as pandemics. The 
existing healthcare system has failed to deliver the care and support needed to 
our older adults (seniors) during these frequent outbreaks. Sophisticated 
sensor-based in-home care systems may offer an effective solution to this global 
crisis. The monitoring system is the key component of any in-home care system. 
The evidence indicates that they are more useful when implemented in a 
non-intrusive manner through different visual and audio sensors. Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) and Computer Vision (CV) techniques may be ideal for this 
purpose. Since the RGB imagery-based CV technique may compromise privacy, people 
often hesitate to utilize in-home care systems which use this technology. Depth, 
thermal, and audio-based CV techniques could be meaningful substitutes here. Due 
to the need to monitor larger areas, this review article presents a systematic 
discussion on the state-of-the-art using depth sensors as primary data-capturing 
techniques. We mainly focused on fall detection and other health-related 
physical patterns. As gait parameters may help to detect these activities, we 
also considered depth sensor-based gait parameters separately. The article 
provides discussions on the topic in relation to the terminology, reviews, a 
survey of popular datasets, and future scopes.

DOI: 10.3390/s22239067
PMCID: PMC9735577
PMID: 36501769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict to interest.


164. Sensors (Basel). 2022 Dec 3;22(23):9463. doi: 10.3390/s22239463.

Integration of IoT Sensors to Determine Life Expectancy of Face Masks.

Ratnayake Mudiyanselage V(1), Lee K(1), Hassani A(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Information Technology, Deakin University, Geelong, VIC 3220, 
Australia.
(2)Car Advance, Ivanhoe, VIC 3079, Australia.

Personal protective equipment (PPE) is widely used around the world to protect 
against environmental hazards. With the emergence of the COVID-19 virus, the use 
of PPE domestically has increased dramatically. People use preventive and 
protective mechanisms now more than ever, leading to the important question of 
how protective is the PPE that is being used. Face masks are highly recommended 
or mandatory during the time of the COVID-19 pandemic due to their protective 
features against aerosol droplets. However, an issue faced by many users of face 
masks is that they are entirely manual, with users having to decide for 
themselves whether their mask is still protective or if they should replace 
their mask. Due to the difficulty in determining this, people tend to overuse 
masks beyond their optimal usage. The research presented in this paper is an 
investigation of the viability of integrating IoT sensors into masks that are 
capable of collecting data to determine its usage. This paper demonstrates the 
usage of humidity and temperature sensors for the purpose of determining a 
mask's usage status based on changes in these variables when a mask is put on 
and taken off. An evaluation was made on the usage of the two sensors, with the 
conclusion that a humidity sensor provides more accurate results. From this, we 
present a framework that takes into consideration the factors that affect a 
mask's performance, such as time, humidity and temperature, to calculate the 
life expectancy of a mask.

DOI: 10.3390/s22239463
PMCID: PMC9738429
PMID: 36502164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


165. Value Health. 2023 Apr;26(4):487-497. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2022.11.018. Epub
2022  Dec 8.

Cost-Effectiveness of Tepotinib Versus Capmatinib for the Treatment of Adult 
Patients With Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Harboring 
Mesenchymal-Epithelial Transition Exon 14 Skipping.

Yang M(1), Vioix H(2), Sachdev R(3), Stargardter M(3), Tosh J(4), Pfeiffer 
BM(2), Paik PK(5).

Author information:
(1)EMD Serono, Rockland, MA, USA. Electronic address: mo.yang@emdserono.com.
(2)the healthcare business of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany.
(3)Evidera, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(4)Evidera, London, UK.
(5)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York City, NY, USA.

OBJECTIVES: From the US Medicare perspective, this study compared the 
cost-effectiveness of tepotinib and capmatinib for treating metastatic non-small 
cell lung cancer with tumors harboring mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor 
gene exon 14 skipping.
METHODS: A 3-state partitioned survival model assessed outcomes over a lifetime 
horizon. Parametric survival analysis of the phase 2 VISION trial informed 
clinical inputs for tepotinib. Capmatinib inputs were captured using hazard 
ratios derived from an unanchored matching-adjusted indirect comparison study 
and published literature. National cost databases, trial data, and literature 
furnished drug, treatment monitoring, and disease/adverse event management 
expenditures (2021 US dollars) and utility inputs. Outcomes were discounted at 
3% annually.
RESULTS: In the base case, tepotinib dominated capmatinib in frontline settings 
(incremental discounted quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs] and costs of 0.2127 
and -$47 756, respectively) while realizing an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of $274 514/QALY in subsequent lines (incremental QALYs and costs of 
0.3330 and $91 401, respectively). In a line agnostic context, tepotinib 
produced an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $105 383/QALY (incremental 
QALYs and costs of 0.2794 and $29 447, respectively). Sensitivity and scenarios 
analyses for individual lines typically supported the base case, whereas those 
for the line agnostic setting suggested sensitivity to drug acquisition costs 
and efficacy inputs.
CONCLUSIONS: Tepotinib could be cost-effective versus capmatinib in frontline 
and line agnostic contexts, considering the range of willingness-to-pay 
thresholds recommended by the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review ($100 
000-$150 000/QALY). Tepotinib could be cost-effective in subsequent lines at 
higher willingness-to-pay levels. These results are to be interpreted 
cautiously, considering uncertainty in key model inputs.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2022.11.018
PMCID: PMC10424058
PMID: 36503033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Drs Yang, 
Vioix, and Pfeiffer are employees at EMD Serono and the healthcare business of 
Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. Ms Sachdev, Dr Stargardter, and Dr Tosh reported 
receiving “personal fees” from their employer Evidera (salary) and “other” 
payments from EMD Serono for collaboration on this project and article. Dr Paik 
reported receiving personal fees from Takeda, EMD Serono, Mirati, Xencor, 
CrownBio, and Novartis, outside of the submitted work. No other disclosures were 
reported.


166. Brain Nerve. 2022 Dec;74(12):1405-1408. doi: 10.11477/mf.1416202260.

[Muscular Dystrophy: A Banana? At This Time of the Night?].

[Article in Japanese]

Ogata K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology/Institute of Clinical Research, National Hospital 
Organization Higashisaitama National Hospital.

In Japan, specialized wards for muscular dystrophy have been established in 
national hospitals since 1964, and opportunities for medical care, 
rehabilitation training, and education have been provided. Since the 90s, 
advances in ventilatory therapy and heart failure pharmacotherapy have resulted 
in increased life expectancy in patients with muscular dystrophy. The social 
infrastructure has also improved, but it still took long to develop support 
systems for the social lives of individuals with disabilities. A Banana? At This 
Time of the Night? is a non-fiction book about a muscular dystrophy patient who 
led an independent life and of the volunteers who supported him, which was 
adapted into a film.

DOI: 10.11477/mf.1416202260
PMID: 36503145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Expert Rev Mol Med. 2022 Dec 12;25:e4. doi: 10.1017/erm.2022.41.

Irisin enhances longevity by boosting SIRT1, AMPK, autophagy and telomerase.

Sánchez B(1), Muñoz-Pinto MF(2), Cano M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Seville, 
Seville, Spain.
(2)Deparment of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
University of Seville, Seville, Spain.

Ageing is characterised by the accumulation of molecular and cellular damage 
through time, leading to a decline in physical and mental abilities. Currently, 
society has experienced a rapid increase in life expectancy, which has led to an 
increase in age-associated diseases. Therefore, it is crucial to study the 
process of ageing to guarantee the best conditions in the final stages of life. 
In recent years, interest has increased in a myokine known as irisin, which is 
secreted during physical exercise. This polypeptide hormone is produced by 
various organs, mainly muscle, and once it is released into the blood, it 
performs a wide variety of functions that are involved in metabolic control and 
may be relevant during some of the diseases associated with ageing. The aim of 
this review is to highlight the recent studies of irisin, such as its mechanism 
of expression, blood release, distribution, tissue target and participation in 
various cellular metabolic reactions and the relationship with key anti-ageing 
pathways such as adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase, silent 
information regulator T 1, autophagy and telomerase. In conclusion, irisin is a 
key player during the ageing process and it could be a novel target molecule for 
the therapeutic approach to boost longevity pathways. However, more research 
will be necessary to use this promising hormone for this gain.

DOI: 10.1017/erm.2022.41
PMCID: PMC9884770
PMID: 36503597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. BMC Cancer. 2022 Dec 12;22(1):1296. doi: 10.1186/s12885-022-10373-1.

A phase II single arm study of Nivolumab with stereotactic Ablative radiation 
Therapy after induction chemotherapy in CHOlangiocarcinoma (NATCHO).

Elias C(1), Zeidan YH(2), Bouferraa Y(1), Mukherji D(1), Temraz S(1), 
Charafeddine M(1), Al Darazi M(1), Shamseddine A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, Naef K. 
Basile Cancer Institute- NKBCI, American University of Beirut Medical Center, 
Beirut, Lebanon.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, American University of Beirut Medical 
Center, Beirut, Lebanon.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, Naef K. 
Basile Cancer Institute- NKBCI, American University of Beirut Medical Center, 
Beirut, Lebanon. as04@aub.edu.lb.

BACKGROUND: Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is amongst the most common 
primary liver tumors worldwide. CCA carries a bad prognosis prompting research 
to establish new treatment modalities other than surgery and the current 
chemotherapeutic regimens adopted. Hence, this trial explores a new therapeutic 
approach, to combine stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) and 
immunotherapy (Nivolumab), and asses its clinical benefit and safety profile 
after induction chemotherapy in CCA.
METHODOLOGY: This is a Phase II open-label, single-arm, multicenter study that 
investigates Nivolumab (PD-1 inhibitor) treatment at Day 1 followed by SBRT 
(30 Gy in 3 to 5 fractions) at Day 8, then monthly Nivolumab in 40 patients with 
non-resectable locally advanced, metastatic or recurrent intrahepatic or 
extrahepatic CCA. Eligible patients were those above 18 years of age with a 
pathologically and radiologically confirmed diagnosis of non-resectable locally 
advanced or metastatic or recurrent intrahepatic or extrahepatic CCA, following 
4 cycles of cisplatin-based chemotherapy with an estimated life expectancy of 
more than 3 months, among other criteria. The primary endpoint is the 
progression free survival (PFS) rate at 8 months and disease control rate (DCR). 
The secondary endpoints are overall survival (OS), tumor response rate (TRR), 
duration of response, evaluation of biomarkers: CD3 + , CD4 + and CD8 + T cell 
infiltration, as well as any change in the PD-L1 expression through percutaneous 
core biopsy when compared with the baseline biopsy following 1 cycle of 
Nivolumab and SBRT.
DISCUSSION: SRBT alone showed promising results in the literature by both 
inducing the immune system locally and having abscopal effects on distant 
metastases. Moreover, given the prevalence of PD-L1 in solid tumors, targeting 
it or its receptor has become the mainstay of novel immunotherapeutic drugs use. 
A combination of both has never been explored in the scope of CCA and that is 
the aim of this study.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT04648319 , April 20, 2018.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-022-10373-1
PMCID: PMC9743639
PMID: 36503610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


169. Riv Psichiatr. 2022 Nov-Dec;57(6):251-257. doi: 10.1708/3922.39071.

Physical comorbidities in patients with severe mental disorders: a brief 
narrative review on current challenges and practical implications for 
professionals.

Sampogna G(1), Di Vincenzo M(1), Della Rocca B(1), Mancuso E(1), Volpicelli 
A(1), Perris F(1), Del Vecchio V(1), Giallonardo V(1), Luciano M(1), Fiorillo 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", Naples.

A paradox of the modern world is represented by the increasing rate of 
comorbidities, although the life expectancy is increasing worldwide, the number 
of disease-free years is not improving consequently. Physical comorbidities are 
often overlooked in people with severe mental disorders, although this problem 
needs to be adequately managed since it is associated with a worse quality of 
life and a poorer personal and social functioning. In this paper, we aim to: 1) 
carry out a narrative review of the recent literature in order to provide an 
update on the prevalence and incidence of the most frequent comorbid physical 
disorders in people with severe mental disorders; 2) highlight the most 
important difficulties in managing comorbidities in people with severe mental 
disorders in ordinary clinical care; 3) discuss possible solutions to overcome 
those difficulties, particularly through the role of education and scientific 
associations.

DOI: 10.1708/3922.39071
PMID: 36503939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Clin Transplant. 2023 Feb;37(2):e14881. doi: 10.1111/ctr.14881. Epub 2022
Dec  22.

Post-transplant ejection fraction and renal failure in cardiac transplant 
recipients: An analysis of the OPTN database.

Lai M(1), Aras MA(2), Park M(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, California, USA.
(2)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of California, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(3)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of California, San 
Francisco, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: Despite improved life expectancy from a heart transplant, transplant 
recipients remain at high risk for renal dysfunction and failure, including 
end-stage kidney disease (ESKD). The onset of ESKD is a poor prognostic marker 
and is associated with increased mortality in this setting, as in others. There 
is a need to identify risk factors for ESKD among heart transplant recipients in 
contemporary settings.
METHODS: We conducted an analysis of adult heart transplant recipients 
transplanted between 2008 and 2021 in the Organ Procurement and Transplantation 
Network database. 22 737 adult recipients of heart transplants alone were 
included in this analysis. We examined LVEF measured 1 year after transplant, 
and LVEF updated annually for association with ESKD using multivariate Cox 
regression models.
RESULTS: LVEF at 1-year after transplant was associated with ESKD in 
multivariate models (Hazard Ratio 1.33 per 10-unit decrease, 95% CI 1.23-1.43, 
p < .001). In multivariate models using categorized LVEF, mildly reduced 
ejection fraction (EF 40%-50%) was associated with ESKD (HR 1.76, 95% CI 
1.45-2.14, p < .001), as was reduced ejection fraction (EF < 40%, HR 2.86, 95% 
CI 2.01-4.07, p < .001), relative to individuals with preserved ejection 
fraction (EF > 50%). These associations were consistent when using annually 
updated ejection fraction.
CONCLUSIONS: Post-transplant left ventricular ejection fraction has value in 
predicting end stage kidney disease among adults who receive heart transplants 
alone. LVEF is routinely measured as part of contemporary post heart transplant 
care, and a diminished LVEF should signal to clinicians that a recipient is at 
increased risk of renal failure.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ctr.14881
PMID: 36504467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Front Immunol. 2022 Nov 23;13:1034880. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.1034880. 
eCollection 2022.

Type 1 interferon suppresses expression and glucocorticoid induction of 
glucocorticoid-induced leucine zipper (GILZ).

Dankers W(1), Northcott M(1), Bennett T(1), D'Cruz A(1), Sherlock R(1), Gearing 
LJ(2), Hertzog P(2), Russ B(1), Miceli I(1), Scheer S(1), Fujishiro M(3), 
Hayakawa K(3), Ikeda K(3)(4), Morand EF(1), Jones SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Inflammatory Diseases, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(2)Centre for Innate Immunity and Infectious Diseases, Hudson Institute of 
Medical Research, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)Institutes for Environmental and Gender Specific Medicine, Juntendo 
University Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba, Japan.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine and Rheumatology, Juntendo University Urayasu 
Hospital, Chiba, Japan.

SLE is a systemic multi-organ autoimmune condition associated with reduced life 
expectancy and quality of life. Glucocorticoids (GC) are heavily relied on for 
SLE treatment but are associated with detrimental metabolic effects. Type 1 
interferons (IFN) are central to SLE pathogenesis and may confer GC 
insensitivity. Glucocorticoid-induced leucine zipper (GILZ) mediates many 
effects of GC relevant to SLE pathogenesis, but the effect of IFN on GC 
regulation of GILZ is unknown. We performed in vitro experiments using human 
PBMC to examine the effect of IFN on GILZ expression. JAK inhibitors tofacitinib 
and tosylate salt were used in vivo and in vitro respectively to investigate 
JAK-STAT pathway dependence of our observations. ChiP was performed to examine 
glucocorticoid receptor (GR) binding at the GILZ locus. Several public data sets 
were mined for correlating clinical data. High IFN was associated with 
suppressed GILZ and reduced GILZ relevant to GC exposure in a large SLE 
population. IFN directly reduced GILZ expression and suppressed the induction of 
GILZ by GC in vitro in human leukocytes. IFN actions on GILZ expression were 
dependent on the JAK1/Tyk2 pathway, as evidenced by loss of the inhibitory 
effect of IFN on GILZ in the presence of JAK inhibitors. Activation of this 
pathway led to reduced GR binding in key regulatory regions of the GILZ locus. 
IFN directly suppresses GILZ expression and GILZ upregulation by GC, indicating 
a potential mechanism for IFN-induced GC resistance. This work has important 
implications for the ongoing development of targeted GC-sparing therapeutics in 
SLE.

Copyright © 2022 Dankers, Northcott, Bennett, D’Cruz, Sherlock, Gearing, 
Hertzog, Russ, Miceli, Scheer, Fujishiro, Hayakawa, Ikeda, Morand and Jones.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.1034880
PMCID: PMC9727222
PMID: 36505447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


172. Front Oncol. 2022 Nov 23;12:917054. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2022.917054.
eCollection  2022.

The addition of radiotherapy to breast-conserving surgery improves survival for 
elderly patients with early breast cancer.

Yang SP(1), Tan LL(1), Zhou P(2), Lian CL(2), Wu SG(2), He ZY(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hainan General Hospital, Hainan Affiliated 
Hospital of Hainan Medical University, Haikou, China.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Xiamen Cancer Center, Xiamen Key Laboratory 
of Radiation Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xiamen University, 
School of Medicine, Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, State 
Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Collaborative Innovation Center of 
Cancer Medicine, Guangzhou, China.

PURPOSE: To evaluate whether adjuvant radiotherapy (RT) after breast-conserving 
surgery (BCS) was associated with better survival among elderly (≥70 years) 
breast cancer patients with T1-2N0 and estrogen receptor (ER) positive disease.
METHODS: We included patients who met the inclusion criteria between 2010 and 
2014 from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program. Patients were 
subdivided into three groups based on surgery and RT: BCS alone, BCS plus RT, 
