and our results could contribute to stimulating discussion in this vein.

©Bernhard Guetz, Sonja Bidmon. Originally published in the Journal of Medical 
Internet Research (https://www.jmir.org), 14.11.2022.

DOI: 10.2196/37505
PMCID: PMC9706386
PMID: 36374547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


816. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2023 Jun 1;481(6):1209-1220. doi: 
10.1097/CORR.0000000000002465. Epub 2022 Nov 2.

What was the Epidemiology and Global Burden of Disease of Hip Fractures From 
1990 to 2019? Results From and Additional Analysis of the Global Burden of 
Disease Study 2019.

Dong Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Song K(1), Kang H(1), Ye D(2), Li F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, PR China.
(2)Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and 
Technology, Wuhan, PR China.

Comment in
    Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2023 Jun 1;481(6):1221-1223.
    Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2023 Mar 1;481(3):625.

BACKGROUND: Hip fractures are associated with a high risk of death; among those 
who survive a hip fracture, many experience substantial decreases in quality of 
life. A comprehensive understanding of the epidemiology and burden of hip 
fractures by country, age, gender, and sociodemographic factors would provide 
valuable information for healthcare policymaking and clinical practice. The 
Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study 2019 was a global-level study estimating 
the burden of 369 diseases and injuries in 204 countries and territories. An 
exploration and additional analysis of the GBD 2019 would provide a clearer 
picture of the incidence and burden of hip fractures.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: Using data from the GBD 2019, we asked, (1) What are the 
global, regional, and national incidences of hip fractures, and how did they 
change over a recent 30-year span? (2) What is the global, regional, and 
national burden of hip fractures in terms of years lived with disability, and 
how did it change over that same period? (3) What is the leading cause of hip 
fractures? (4) How did the incidence and years lived with disability of patients 
with hip fractures change with age, gender, and sociodemographic factors?
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional study. Participant data were obtained from 
the GBD 2019 ( http://ghdx.healthdata.org/gbd-results-tool ). The GBD study is 
managed by the WHO, coordinated by the Institute of Health Metrics and 
Evaluation, and funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. It estimates 
the burden of disease and injury for 204 countries by age, gender, and 
sociodemographic factors, and can serve as a valuable reference for health 
policymaking. All estimates and their 95% uncertainty interval (UI) were 
produced using DisMod-MR 2.1, a Bayesian meta-regression tool in the GBD 2019. 
In this study, we directly pulled the age-standardized incidence rate and years 
lived with disability rate of hip fractures by location, age, gender, and cause 
from the GBD 2019. Based on these data, we analyzed the association between the 
incidence rate and latitude of each country. Then, we calculated the estimated 
annual percentage change to represent trends from 1990 to 2019. We also used the 
Spearman rank-order correlation analysis to determine the correlation between 
the incidence or burden of hip fractures and the sociodemographic index, a 
composite index of the income per capita, average years of educational 
attainment, and fertility rates in a country.
RESULTS: Globally, hip fracture incidences were estimated to be 14.2 million 
(95% UI 11.1 to 18.1), and the associated years lived with disability were 2.9 
million (95% UI 2.0 to 4.0) in 2019, with an incidence of 182 (95% UI 142 to 
231) and 37 (95% UI 25 to 50) per 100,000, respectively. A strong, positive 
correlation was observed between the incidence rate and the latitude of each 
country (rho = 0.65; p < 0.001). From 1990 to 2019, the global incidence rate 
for both genders remained unchanged (estimated annual percentage change 0.01 
[95% confidence interval -0.08 to 0.11]), but was slightly increased in men 
(estimated annual percentage change 0.11 [95% CI 0.01 to 0.2]). The years lived 
with disability rate decreased slightly (estimated annual percentage change 0.66 
[95% CI -0.73 to -0.6]). These rates were standardized by age. Falls were the 
leading cause of hip fractures, accounting for 66% of all patients and 55% of 
the total years lived with disability. The incidence of hip fractures was 
tightly and positively correlated with the sociodemographic index (rho 0.624; p 
< 0.001), while the years lived with disability rate was slightly negatively 
correlated (rho -0.247; p < 0.001). Most hip fractures occurred in people older 
than 70 years, and women had higher incidence rate (189.7 [95% UI 144.2 to 
247.2] versus 166.2 [95% UI 133.2 to 205.8] per 100,000) and years lived with 
disability (38.4 [95% UI 26.9 to 51.6] versus 33.7 [95% UI 23.1 to 45.5] per 
100,000) than men.
CONCLUSION: Hip fractures are common, devastating to patients, and economically 
burdensome to healthcare systems globally, with falls being the leading cause. 
The age-standardized incidence rate has slightly increased in men. Many 
low-latitude countries have lower incidences, possibly because of prolonged 
sunlight exposure. Policies should be directed to promoting public health 
education about maintaining bone-protective lifestyles, enhancing the knowledge 
of osteoporosis management in young resident physicians and those in practice, 
increasing the awareness of osteoporosis screening and treatment in men, and 
developing more effective antiosteoporosis drugs for clinical use.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III, prognostic study.

Copyright © 2022 by the Association of Bone and Joint Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1097/CORR.0000000000002465
PMCID: PMC10194687
PMID: 36374576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Each author certifies that there are no funding 
or commercial associations (consultancies, stock ownership, equity interest, 
patent/licensing arrangements, etc.) that might pose a conflict of interest in 
connection with the submitted article related to the author or any immediate 
family members. All ICMJE Conflict of Interest Forms for authors and Clinical 
Orthopaedics and Related Research® editors and board members are on file with 
the publication and can be viewed on request.


817. PLoS Med. 2022 Nov 14;19(11):e1004130. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1004130. 
eCollection 2022 Nov.

The association between multimorbidity and mobility disability-free life 
expectancy in adults aged 85 years and over: A modelling study in the Newcastle 
85+ cohort.

Davies LE(1), Mercer SW(2), Brittain K(1), Jagger C(1), Robinson L(1), Kingston 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Health Sciences Institute, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, United Kingdom.
(2)Advanced Care Research Centre, Usher Institute, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Mobility disability is predictive of further functional decline and 
can itself compromise older people's capacity (and preference) to live 
independently. The world's population is also ageing, and multimorbidity is the 
norm in those aged ≥85. What is unclear in this age group, is the influence of 
multimorbidity on (a) transitions in mobility disability and (b) mobility 
disability-free life expectancy (mobDFLE).
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Using multistate modelling in an inception cohort of 714 
85-year-olds followed over a 10-year period (aged 85 in 2006 to 95 in 2016), we 
investigated the association between increasing numbers of long-term conditions 
and (1) mobility disability incidence, (2) recovery from mobility disability and 
(3) death, and then explored how this shaped the remaining life expectancy free 
from mobility disability at age 85. Models were adjusted for age, sex, disease 
group count, BMI and education. We defined mobility disability based on 
participants' self-reported ability to get around the house, go up and down 
stairs/steps, and walk at least 400 yards; participants were defined as having 
mobility disability if, for one or more these activities, they had any 
difficulty with them or could not perform them. Data were drawn from the 
Newcastle 85+ Study: a longitudinal population-based cohort study that recruited 
community-dwelling and institutionalised individuals from Newcastle upon Tyne 
and North Tyneside general practices. We observed that each additional disease 
was associated with a 16% increased risk of incident mobility disability (hazard 
ratio (HR) 1.16, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.07 to 1.25, p < 0.001), a 26% 
decrease in the chance of recovery from this state (HR 0.74, 95% CI: 0.63 to 
0.86, p < 0.001), and a 12% increased risk of death with mobility disability 
(HR: 1.12, 95% CI: 1.07- to .17, p < 0.001). This translated to reductions in 
mobDFLE with increasing numbers of long-term conditions. However, residual and 
unmeasured confounding cannot be excluded from these analyses, and there may 
have been unobserved transitions to/from mobility disability between interviews 
and prior to death.
CONCLUSIONS: We suggest 2 implications from this work. (1) Our findings support 
calls for a greater focus on the prevention of multimorbidity as populations 
age. (2) As more time spent with mobility disability could potentially lead to 
greater care needs, maintaining independence with increasing age should also be 
a key focus for health/social care and reablement services.

Copyright: © 2022 Davies et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1004130
PMCID: PMC9662726
PMID: 36374907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


818. PLoS One. 2022 Nov 14;17(11):e0277335. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0277335. 
eCollection 2022.

Trends and patterns of North Korea's disease burden from 1990 to 2019: Results 
from Global Burden of Disease study 2019.

Lee EH(1), Choi M(2), Sempungu JK(3), Lee YH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Korea University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(2)Institute for Future Public Health, Graduate School of Public Health, Korea 
University, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Graduate School of Medicine, Ajou University, Suwon, Gyeonggi-do, South 
Korea.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2023 Jul 24;18(7):e0289257.

BACKGROUND: Evidence for the trends and patterns of disease burden in North 
Korea is limited, and in-depth analysis based on several health outcomes for a 
better understanding remains challenging. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the 
trends and patterns of disease burden in North Korea between 1990 and 2019.
METHODS: We used data from the Global Burden of Diseases (GBD) 2019 study to 
analyze the North Korean disease burden in comparison with four groups: global, 
South Korea, low-sociodemographic index (SDI) countries, Central and Eastern 
Europe, and Central Asia (former socialist countries). We also examined changes 
in the disease burden between 1990 and 2019 by disease category and age group.
FINDINGS: In 2019, in North Korea, death rates and disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs) rates were reduced by 22.2% and 30.7%, respectively, compared to 
1990. The rates showed similar trends and patterns to that in former socialist 
countries. However, these reductions were lower than those of the global rates 
and rates in low-SDI countries and South Korea. Death rates and DALY rates for 
under five years dramatically decreased by more than 78%, similar to the trend 
in South Korea. In contrast, the decline in the death rates and DALY rates of 
adults was less than those worldwide and in low-SDI countries and South Korea. 
The burden of diseases among those aged ≥30 years increased largely due to the 
persistently high burden of non-communicable diseases (NCDs). Cardiovascular 
diseases, neoplasms, and chronic respiratory diseases were the leading causes of 
the disease burden in both 1990 and 2019.
INTERPRETATION: North Korea's disease burden patterns and trends show clear 
improvements over the past 30 years but suggest that the current challenges of 
NCDs in the country are very serious. NCDs should be no longer neglected and 
should be prioritized in public health agendas in North Korea.

Copyright: © 2022 Lee et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0277335
PMCID: PMC9662722
PMID: 36374924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


819. Water Res. 2022 Dec 1;227:119327. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2022.119327. Epub
2022  Nov 7.

Using water-adjusted person years to quantify the value of being water secure 
for an individual's quality of life.

Ross I(1).

Author information:
(1)Global Health Economics Centre, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, 
United Kingdom. Electronic address: ian.ross@lshtm.ac.uk.

Domestic water insecurity harms quality of life outcomes beyond health, for 
example in worry about water availability or anger at disrupted plans. However, 
these outcomes are excluded from cost-benefit analyses of water supply 
interventions, which typically measure and value only prevented disease and time 
savings. In this paper, I propose a means of quantifying the value of being 
water secure for an individual's quality of life, the water-adjusted person year 
(WAPY). One WAPY represents a year lived in complete water security. It is 
inspired by the quality-adjusted life year in health economics, which combines 
time with a health-related quality of life index. The WAPY combines time using 
water services with a water-related quality of life (WaterQoL) index, where 
0 = completely water insecure and 1 = completely water secure. The index could 
be derived from an existing four-attribute Water Insecurity Experiences scale, 
which includes questions such as "how often did you worry that you would not 
have enough water for all of your needs?". Other questions concern drinking 
water, disrupted plans, and handwashing. Responses can be combined in a weighted 
index based on the relative importance of the four attributes to people. If 
someone has a WaterQoL index of 0.6, over a 10 year period they would have 6 
WAPYs. If a water supply intervention raised WaterQoL to 0.8, they would gain 2 
WAPYs over 10 years. The monetary value of WAPYs gained (e.g. in US$) could be 
estimated by willingness to pay and included in a cost-benefit analysis. Some 
interventions might result in greater WaterQoL gains than others, or 
longer-lasting services. Incorporating WAPYs in cost-benefit analyses, alongside 
prevented disease and time savings, could help identify interventions which 
provide better water services to more people within a given budget.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2022.119327
PMID: 36375227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.


820. Radiother Oncol. 2023 Jun;183:109417. doi: 10.1016/j.radonc.2022.11.006.
Epub  2022 Nov 12.

Cost-effectiveness of proton radiotherapy versus photon radiotherapy for 
non-small cell lung cancer patients: Exploring the model-based approach.

Aldenhoven L(1), Ramaekers B(2), Degens J(3), Oberije C(4), van Loon J(5), 
Dingemans AC(6), De Ruysscher D(5), Joore M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, the Netherlands. Electronic 
address: bram.ramaekers@mumc.nl.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, School for Nutrition and Translational 
Research in Metabolism (NUTRIM), Maastricht University Medical Center, 
Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(4)The D-Lab: Decision Support for Precision Medicine, GROW - School for 
Oncology and Developmental Biology, Maastricht University Medical Centre, 
Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology (MAASTRO clinic), GROW School for 
Developmental Biology and Oncology, Maastricht University Medical Center, 
Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, University 
Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Proton radiotherapy (PT) is a promising but more expensive 
strategy than photon radiotherapy (XRT) for the treatment of non-small cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC). PT is probably not cost-effective for all patients. Therefore, 
patients can be selected using normal tissue complication probability (NTCP) 
models with predefined criteria. This study aimed to explore the 
cost-effectiveness of three treatment strategies for patients with stage III 
NSCLC: 1. photon radiotherapy for all patients (XRTAll); 2. PT for all patients 
(PTAll); 3. PT for selected patients (PTIndividualized).
METHODS: A decision-analytical model was constructed to estimate and compare 
costs and QALYs of all strategies. Three radiation-related toxicities were 
included: dyspnea, dysphagia and cardiotoxicity. Costs and QALY's were 
incorporated for grade 2 and ≥ 3 toxicities separately. Incremental 
Cost-Effectiven Ratios (ICERs) were calculated and compared to a threshold value 
of €80,000. Additionally, scenario, sensitivity and value of information 
analyses were performed.
RESULTS: PTAll yielded most QALYs, but was also most expensive. XRTAll was the 
least effective and least expensive strategy, and the most cost-effective 
strategy. For thresholds higher than €163,467 per QALY gained, PTIndividualized 
was cost-effective. When assuming equal minutes per fraction (15 minutes) for PT 
and XRT, PTIndividualized was considered the most cost-effective strategy (ICER: 
€76,299).
CONCLUSION: Currently, PT is not cost-effective for all patients, nor for 
patient selected on the current NTCP models used in the Dutch indication 
protocol. However, with improved clinical experience, personnel and treatment 
costs of PT can decrease over time, which potentially leads to PTIndividualized, 
with optimal patient selection, will becoming a cost-effective strategy.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.radonc.2022.11.006
PMID: 36375562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


821. Value Health. 2023 Apr;26(4):477-486. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2022.11.002. Epub
2022  Nov 11.

Cost-Effectiveness of Venetoclax Plus Obinutuzumab Versus Chlorambucil Plus 
Obinutuzumab for the First-Line Treatment of Adult Patients With Chronic 
Lymphocytic Leukemia: An Extended Societal View.

Do N(1), Thielen FW(2).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus School of Health Policy & Management, Erasmus University of 
Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; School of Speech, Language, and Hearing 
Sciences, San Diego State University, CA, USA. Electronic address: 
anndo9292@gmail.com.
(2)Erasmus School of Health Policy & Management, Erasmus University of 
Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Erasmus Centre for Health Economics 
Rotterdam (EsCHER), Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
Electronic address: thielen@eshpm.eur.nl.

OBJECTIVES: Efficacy of venetoclax plus obinutuzumab (VenO) compared with 
chlorambucil plus obinutuzumab (ClbO) for treatment-naïve adult patients with 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with coexisting medical conditions was 
investigated in CLL14 (NCT02242942). Our aim was to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of VenO versus ClbO for these patients from a Dutch societal 
perspective.
METHODS: A 3-state partitioned survival model was constructed to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of VenO. The outcome of the analysis was the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) with effectiveness measured in quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) gained. Uncertainty was explored through deterministic and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses, scenario analyses, and value of information 
analysis (VOI).
RESULTS: The base case resulted in a discounted ICER -49 928 EUR/QALY gained 
(with incremental negative costs and positive effects). None of the ICERs 
resulted from deterministic sensitivity and scenario analyses exceeded the 
chosen willingness-to-pay threshold of 20 000 EUR/QALY, and > 99% of the 
iterations in the probabilistic sensitivity analysis were cost-effective. VOI 
analyses showed a maximum expected value of eliminating all model parameter 
uncertainty of 183 591 EUR.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated VenO being dominant over ClbO in 
treatment-naïve adult patients with CLL assuming a Dutch societal perspective. 
We concluded that our results are robust as tested through sensitivity and 
scenario analyses. Additionally, the VOI analyses confirmed that our current 
evidence base is strong enough to generate reliable results for our study. 
Nevertheless, further research based on real-world data or longer follow-up 
period could further contribute to the robustness of the current study's 
conclusions.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2022.11.002
PMID: 36375678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. BMJ Open. 2022 Nov 14;12(11):e065133. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-065133.

Cost-effectiveness of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator for acute 
ischaemic stroke with unknown time of onset: a Markov modelling analysis from 
the Chinese and US perspectives.

Zhao S(#)(1)(2), Cheng Y(#)(3), Tong X(1), Han M(2), Ji L(4), Che Y(5), Hu W(6), 
Liu A(7)(2).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Neurosurgical Institute, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, The Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Linfen Central Hospital, Linfen, China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, Changde First Hospital of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Changde, China.
(6)Department of Neurology, Changde First Hospital of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Changde, China liuaihuadoctor@163.com huweiwu0314@126.com.
(7)Beijing Neurosurgical Institute, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China liuaihuadoctor@163.com huweiwu0314@126.com.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: The effectiveness of MRI-guided intravenous recombinant tissue-type 
plasminogen activator (r-tPA) for acute ischaemic stroke (AIS) with an unknown 
time of onset has been demonstrated by the WAKE-UP Trial. We aim to evaluate its 
long-term cost-effectiveness from the perspective of Chinese and US healthcare 
payers.
METHODS: A combination of decision tree and Markov model was built to project 
lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) associated with 
intravenous r-tPA or placebo treatment. Model inputs including the transition 
probabilities, costs and utilities were derived from the WAKE-UP Trial, similar 
cost-effectiveness studies and other published sources. To compare intravenous 
r-tPA to placebo, we calculated incremental costs, incremental QALYs and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). One-way sensitivity, probabilistic 
sensitivity and subgroup analyses were performed to evaluate uncertainty in the 
results.
RESULTS: In China, intravenous r-tPA gained an additional lifetime QALY of 0.293 
with an additional cost of the Chinese Yuan (¥) of 7871 when compared with 
placebo, resulting in an ICER of ¥26 870 (US$3894)/QALY. In the USA, intravenous 
r-tPA yielded a higher QALY (difference: 0.430) and lower cost (difference: 
¥-4563) when compared with placebo. In probabilistic sensitivity analyses, 
intravenous r-tPA had a 97.8% and 99.8% probability of being cost-effective or 
cost-saving in China and the USA, respectively. These findings remained robust 
under one-way sensitivity and subgroup analysis except for patients with a 
National Institute of Health Stroke Scale Score of less than 4, between 11 and 
16, and over 16.
CONCLUSIONS: MRI-guided intravenous r-tPA for patients with AIS with an unknown 
time of onset is cost-effective in China and cost-saving in the USA.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-065133
PMCID: PMC9664282
PMID: 36375982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


823. Nat Commun. 2022 Nov 14;13(1):6922. doi: 10.1038/s41467-022-34657-z.

Third primary SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccines enhance antibody responses in most 
patients with haematological malignancies.

Cook LB(1)(2), O'Dell G(2), Vourvou E(2), Palanicawandar R(2), Marks S(2), 
Milojkovic D(1)(2), Apperley JF(1)(2), Loaiza S(2), Claudiani S(2), Bua M(2), 
Hockings C(2), Macdonald D(1)(2), Chaidos A(1)(2), Pavlu J(2), Cooper N(1)(2), 
Fidler S(3), Randell P(4), Innes AJ(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Haematology, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Immunology and 
Inflammation, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(2)Department of Haematology, Hammersmith Hospital, Imperial College Healthcare 
NHS Trust, London, UK.
(3)Section of Virology, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Infectious Diseases, 
Imperial College London, London, UK.
(4)Department of Infection and Immunity, North West London Pathology, London, 
UK.
(5)Centre for Haematology, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Immunology and 
Inflammation, Imperial College London, London, UK. a.innes@imperial.ac.uk.
(6)Department of Haematology, Hammersmith Hospital, Imperial College Healthcare 
NHS Trust, London, UK. a.innes@imperial.ac.uk.

SARS-CoV-2 infection, and resulting disease, COVID-19, has a high mortality 
amongst patients with haematological malignancies. Global vaccine rollouts have 
reduced hospitalisations and deaths, but vaccine efficacy in patients with 
haematological malignancies is known to be reduced. The UK-strategy offered a 
third, mRNA-based, vaccine as an extension to the primary course in these 
patients. The MARCH database is a retrospective observational study of 
serological responses in patients with blood disorders. Here we present data on 
381 patients with haematological malignancies. By comparison with healthy 
controls, we report suboptimal responses following two primary vaccines, with 
significantly enhanced responses following the third primary dose. These 
responses however are heterogeneous and determined by haematological malignancy 
sub-type and therapy. We identify a group of patients with continued suboptimal 
vaccine responses who may benefit from additional doses, prophylactic extended 
half-life neutralising monoclonal therapies (nMAB) or prompt nMAB treatment in 
the event of SARS-CoV-2 infection.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-022-34657-z
PMCID: PMC9662771
PMID: 36376307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


824. Aesthetic Plast Surg. 2023 Jun;47(3):914-926. doi:
10.1007/s00266-022-03138-5.  Epub 2022 Nov 14.

Mortality Rate in Breast Implant Surgery: Is an Additional Procedure Worthwhile 
to Mitigate BIA-ALCL Risk?

Santanelli di Pompeo F(1)(2), Sorotos M(3)(4), Clemens MW(5), Paolini G(3)(4), 
Anibaldi P(4), Davoli M(6)(7), Baglio G(7), Pinnarelli L(6), Ferranti M(6), 
Cerza F(7), Cicala SD(7), Firmani G(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Psychology, Neurosciences, Mental Health and Sensory 
Organ (NESMOS) Department, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy. 
fabio.santanelli@uniroma1.it.
(2)Sant'Andrea University Hospital, Rome, Italy. fabio.santanelli@uniroma1.it.
(3)Faculty of Medicine and Psychology, Neurosciences, Mental Health and Sensory 
Organ (NESMOS) Department, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(4)Sant'Andrea University Hospital, Rome, Italy.
(5)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA.
(6)Lazio Regional Health Service, Rome, Italy.
(7)Italian National Agency for Regional Healthcare Services (AGENAS), Italian 
Ministry of Health, Rome, Italy.

Comment in
    Aesthetic Plast Surg. 2023 Jun;47(3):927-929.

BACKGROUND: Because of poor knowledge of risks and benefits, prophylactic 
explantation of high BIA-ALCL risk breast implant (BI) is not indicated. Several 
surgical risks have been associated with BI surgery, with mortality being the 
most frightening. Primary aim of this study is to assess mortality rate in 
patients undergoing breast implant surgery for aesthetic or reconstructive 
indication.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this retrospective observational cohort study, Breast 
Implant Surgery Mortality rate (BISM) was calculated as the perioperative 
mortality rate among 99,690 patients who underwent BI surgery for oncologic and 
non-oncologic indications. Mean age at first implant placement (A1P), implant 
lifespan (IL), and women's life expectancy (WLE) were obtained from a literature 
review and population database.
RESULTS: BISM rate was 0, and mean A1P was 34 years for breast augmentation, and 
50 years for breast reconstruction. Regardless of indication, overall mean A1P 
can be presumed to be 39 years, while mean BIL was estimated as 9 years and WLE 
as 85 years.
CONCLUSION: This study first showed that the BISM risk is 0. This information, 
and the knowledge that BI patients will undergo one or more revisional 
procedures if not explantation during their lifetime, may help surgeons in the 
decision-making process of a pre-emptive substitution or explant in patients at 
high risk of BIA-ALCL. Our recommendation is that patients with existing 
macrotextured implants do have a relative indication for explantation and total 
capsulectomy. The final decision should be shared between patient and surgeon 
following an evaluation of benefits, surgical risks and comorbidities.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE IV: This journal requires that authors assign a level of 
evidence to each article. For a full description of these Evidence-Based 
Medicine ratings, please refer to the Table of Contents or the online 
Instructions to Authors www.springer.com/00266 .

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00266-022-03138-5
PMCID: PMC10229447
PMID: 36376583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The corresponding author would like to disclose 
that he received reimbursements for travel/lodgment expenses from ICEAG in 2015 
and SCHEER-WG in 2019, 2020 and 2021, and is a member of Notified Body 0373, 
part of the Superior Institute of Health, carrying out CE Mark certification 
activities for the Italian Ministry of Health for the year 2021. They have no 
ownerships or investments to disclose. All other authors hereby certify that to 
the best of their knowledge, no financial support or benefits have been 
received, neither by themselves directly, nor by any member of their immediate 
family or any individual or entity with whom or with which they may have a 
significant relationship from any commercial source which is related directly or 
indirectly to the scientific work which is reported on in the article. None of 
the authors has a financial interest in any of the products, devices, or drugs 
mentioned in this manuscript.


825. Arch Physiother. 2022 Nov 15;12(1):25. doi: 10.1186/s40945-022-00151-4.

Spreading the word: pediatric pain education from treatment to prevention.

Ickmans K(1)(2)(3), Rheel E(4)(5), Rezende J(6), Reis FJJ(4)(6).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Physical Education and Physiotherapy, Department of Physiotherapy, 
Human Physiology and Anatomy (KIMA), Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Laarbeeklaan 
103 - building B, BE-1090, Brussels, Belgium. Kelly.Ickmans@vub.be.
(2)Movement & Nutrition for Health & Performance research group (MOVE), 
Department of Movement and Sport Sciences, Faculty of Physical Education and 
Physiotherapy, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Pleinlaan 2, 1050, Brussels, Belgium. 
Kelly.Ickmans@vub.be.
(3)Department of Physical Medicine and Physiotherapy, Universitair Ziekenhuis 
Brussel, Laarbeeklaan 101, 1090, Brussels, Belgium. Kelly.Ickmans@vub.be.
(4)Faculty of Physical Education and Physiotherapy, Department of Physiotherapy, 
Human Physiology and Anatomy (KIMA), Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Laarbeeklaan 
103 - building B, BE-1090, Brussels, Belgium.
(5)Department of Experimental-Clinical and Health Psychology, Ghent University, 
Henri Dunantlaan 2, 9000, Ghent, Belgium.
(6)Physical Therapy Department, Instituto Federal do Rio de Janeiro (IFRJ), Rua 
Professor Carlos Wenceslau, 343, Realengo, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Pain affects everyone hence one can argue that it is in each individual's 
interest to understand pain in order to hold correct and adaptive beliefs and 
attitudes about pain. In addition, chronic pain is reaching pandemic proportions 
and it is now well known that people living with chronic pain have a reduced 
life expectancy. To address and to prevent the growth of this public health 
disaster, we must start looking beyond adulthood. How children view pain has an 
impact on their behavioral coping responses which in turn predict persistent 
pain early in the lifespan. In addition, children who suffer from chronic pain 
and who are not (properly) treated for it before adolescence have an increased 
risk of having chronic pain during their adult life. Explaining pain to children 
and youth may have a tremendous impact not only on the individual child 
suffering from chronic pain but also on society, since the key to stop the pain 
pandemic may well lie in the first two decades of life. In order to facilitate 
the acquisition of adaptive behavioral coping responses, pain education aims to 
shift people's view on pain from being an apparent threat towards being a 
compelling perceptual experience generated by the brain that will only arise 
whenever the conceivable proof of danger to the body is greater than the 
conceivable proof of safety to the body. Nowadays a lot of pain education 
material is available for adults, but it is not adapted to children's 
developmental stage and therefore little or not suitable for them. An overview 
of the state-of-the-art pain education material for children and youth is 
provided here, along with its current and future areas of application as well as 
challenges to its development and delivery. Research on pediatric pain education 
is still in its infancy and many questions remain to be answered within this 
emerging field of investigation.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40945-022-00151-4
PMCID: PMC9663293
PMID: 36376953

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


826. Expert Rev Mol Med. 2022 Nov 15;25:e2. doi: 10.1017/erm.2022.36.

Effects of lifespan-extending interventions on cognitive healthspan.

Culig L(1), Sahbaz BD(1), Bohr VA(1).

Author information:
(1)Section on DNA Repair, National Institute on Aging, NIH, Baltimore, MD 21224, 
USA.

Ageing is known to be the primary risk factor for most neurodegenerative 
diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Huntington's 
disease. They are currently incurable and worsen over time, which has broad 
implications in the context of lifespan and healthspan extension. Adding years 
to life and even to physical health is suboptimal or even insufficient, if 
cognitive ageing is not adequately improved. In this review, we will examine how 
interventions that have the potential to extend lifespan in animals affect the 
brain, and if they would be able to thwart or delay the development of cognitive 
dysfunction and/or neurodegeneration. These interventions range from lifestyle 
(caloric restriction, physical exercise and environmental enrichment) through 
pharmacological (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide precursors, resveratrol, 
rapamycin, metformin, spermidine and senolytics) to epigenetic reprogramming. We 
argue that while many of these interventions have clear potential to improve 
cognitive health and resilience, large-scale and long-term randomised controlled 
trials are needed, along with studies utilising washout periods to determine the 
effects of supplementation cessation, particularly in aged individuals.

DOI: 10.1017/erm.2022.36
PMID: 36377361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2023 Feb 15;108(3):614-623. doi: 
10.1210/clinem/dgac644.

Pancreas Transplantation: Current Challenges, Considerations, and Controversies.

Fridell JA(1), Stratta RJ(2), Gruessner AC(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
IN 46202, USA.
(2)Department of Surgery, Atrium Health Wake Forest Baptist Health, 
Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine/Nephrology, SUNY Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn, 
NY 11203, USA.

Pancreas transplantation (PTx) reestablishes an autoregulating source of 
endogenous insulin responsive to normal feedback controls. In addition to 
achieving complete β-cell replacement that frees the patient with diabetes from 
the need to monitor serum glucose and administer exogenous insulin, successful 
PTx provides counterregulatory hormone secretion and exocrine function. A 
functioning PTx mitigates glycemic variability, eliminates the daily stigma and 
burden of diabetes, restores normal glucose homeostasis in patients with 
complicated diabetes, and improves quality of life and life expectancy. The 
tradeoff is that it entails a major surgical procedure and requisite long-term 
immunosuppression. Despite the high likelihood of rendering patients euglycemic 
independent of exogenous insulin, PTx is considered a treatment rather than a 
cure. In spite of steadily improving outcomes in each successive era coupled 
with expansion of recipient selection criteria to include patients with a type 2 
diabetes phenotype, a decline in PTx activity has occurred in the new millennium 
related to a number of factors including: (1) lack of a primary referral source 
and general acceptance by the diabetes care community; (2) absence of consensus 
criteria; and (3) access, education, and resource issues within the transplant 
community. In the author's experience, patients who present as potential 
candidates for PTx have felt as though they needed to circumvent the 
conventional diabetes care model to gain access to transplant options. PTx 
should be featured more prominently in the management algorithms for patients 
with insulin requiring diabetes who are failing exogenous insulin therapy or 
experiencing progressive diabetic complications regardless of diabetes type. 
Furthermore, all patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease should 
undergo consideration for simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation 
independent of geography or location.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Endocrine Society. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1210/clinem/dgac644
PMID: 36377963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Eur J Public Health. 2023 Feb 3;33(1):146-148. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckac171.

Estimating the worldwide burden of health loss due to hearing loss.

Nocini R(1), Henry BM(2), Lippi G(3), Mattiuzzi C(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Dentistry, Paediatrics and Gynaecology-Unit of 
Otorhinolaryngology, University of Verona, Verona, Italy.
(2)Clinical Laboratory, Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Cincinnati 
Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(3)Section of Clinical Biochemistry and School of Medicine, University of 
Verona, Verona, Italy.
(4)Service of Clinical Governance, Provincial Agency for Social and Sanitary 
Services (APSS), Trento, Italy.

We planned this study to define the worldwide burden of health loss attributed 
to hearing impairment occurred during the past 10 years according to the 2019 
Global Health Data Exchange (GHDx) database. The current worldwide burden of 
health loss due to all forms of hearing impairment is estimated at 43.4 million 
Years Lived with Disability (YLDs), representing 28% of cumulative YLDs due to 
all physical impairments in GHDx. The hearing loss-attributable YLDs have 
linearly increased (r = 0.997; P < 0.01) by 18.7% during the past 10 years. 
Reinforced policies are hence needed for preventing development of mild hearing 
impairment and/or progression toward more severe deficiencies.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckac171
PMCID: PMC9897997
PMID: 36377968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Eur J Public Health. 2023 Feb 3;33(1):13-19. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckac159.

Income differences in partial life expectancy between ages 35 and 64 from 1988 
to 2017: the contribution of living arrangements.

Knop J(1), Martikainen P(1), Remes H(1), Tarkiainen L(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Research Unit, Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Helsinki, 
Helsinki, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Socioeconomic differences in mortality among the working-age 
population have increased in several high-income countries. The aim of this 
study was to assess whether changes in the living arrangement composition of 
income groups have contributed to changing income differences in life expectancy 
during the past 30 years.
METHODS: We used Finnish register data covering the total population to 
calculate partial life expectancies between ages 35 and 64 by income quartile in 
1988-2017. The contribution of living arrangements to these differences was 
assessed by direct standardization. Decomposition methods were used to determine 
the extent of life expectancy differences due to external (accidental, violent 
and alcohol-related) causes of death.
RESULTS: The life expectancy gap between the highest and lowest income quartile 
increased until 2003-07, but decreased thereafter. The contribution of living 
arrangements to these differences remained mostly stable: 36-39% among men and 
15-23% among women. Those living without children consistently showed the 
greatest life expectancy differences by income. External causes of death 
significantly contributed to income differences in life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: The living arrangement composition of income groups explained part 
of the differences in life expectancy, but not their changes. Our results on the 
contribution of external causes of death imply that both the persistent income 
gradient in mortality as well as the mortality disparities by living 
arrangements are at least partially related to similar selection or causal 
mechanisms.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckac159
PMCID: PMC10263265
PMID: 36377975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Demography. 2022 Dec 1;59(6):2013-2024. doi: 10.1215/00703370-10349971.

Comparing Cohort Survival in Good Health: A Research Note on Decomposing Sex 
Differentials in the United States.

Sauerberg M(1), Canudas-Romo V(2).

Author information:
(1)Federal Institute for Population Research, Wiesbaden, Germany.
(2)School of Demography, CASS, RSSS, Australian National University, Canberra, 
Australia.

We introduce a method for decomposing differences in healthy cross-sectional 
average length of life (HCAL). HCAL provides an alternative to the health 
expectancy (HE) indicator by including the health and mortality history of all 
cohorts present at a given time. While decompositions of HE differences account 
for contributions made by health and mortality, differences in HCAL are further 
disentangled into cohort-specific contributions. In this research note we 
illustrate the technique by analyzing the sex gap in health and mortality for 
the United States. We use the harmonized version of the Health and Retirement 
Survey data and define the health status in terms of activities of daily living. 
Our results suggest that the female advantage in cohort survival is partly 
compensated by women's lower cohort-specific health levels. At older ages, 
however, the sex differences in health are not large enough to compensate men's 
disadvantage in cohort survival.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1215/00703370-10349971
PMID: 36378075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Contemp Clin Trials. 2023 Jan;124:107003. doi: 10.1016/j.cct.2022.107003.
Epub  2022 Nov 13.

Testing the effects of the Strong Together self-advocacy serious game among 
women with advanced cancer: Protocol for the STRONG randomized clinical trial.

Thomas TH(1), Bender C(2), Rosenzweig M(3), Taylor S(4), Sereika SM(5), 
Babichenko D(6), You KL(7), Terry MA(8), Sabik LM(9), Schenker Y(10).

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh School of Nursing, University of Pittsburgh, 3500 
Victoria Street, Pittsburgh 15261, PA, USA; Palliative Research Center (PaRC), 
University of Pittsburgh, 230 McKee Place, Suite 600, Pittsburgh 15213, PA, USA. 
Electronic address: t.thomas@pitt.edu.
(2)University of Pittsburgh School of Nursing, University of Pittsburgh, 3500 
Victoria Street, Pittsburgh 15261, PA, USA. Electronic address: cbe100@pitt.edu.
(3)University of Pittsburgh School of Nursing, University of Pittsburgh, 3500 
Victoria Street, Pittsburgh 15261, PA, USA; Palliative Research Center (PaRC), 
University of Pittsburgh, 230 McKee Place, Suite 600, Pittsburgh 15213, PA, USA; 
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center Magee-Womens Hospital, 300 Halket 
Street, Pittsburgh 15213, PA, USA. Electronic address: mros@pitt.edu.
(4)University of Pittsburgh Medical Center Magee-Womens Hospital, 300 Halket 
Street, Pittsburgh 15213, PA, USA. Electronic address: taylorse2@upmc.edu.
(5)University of Pittsburgh School of Nursing, University of Pittsburgh, 3500 
Victoria Street, Pittsburgh 15261, PA, USA. Electronic address: 
ssereika@pitt.edu.
(6)University of Pittsburgh School of Computing and Information, 135 North 
Bellefield Avenue, Pittsburgh 15213, PA, USA. Electronic address: 
Dmitriy.b@pitt.edu.
(7)University of Pittsburgh School of Nursing, University of Pittsburgh, 3500 
Victoria Street, Pittsburgh 15261, PA, USA. Electronic address: 
kailinyou@pitt.edu.
(8)University of Pittsburgh School of Public Health, 130 De Soto Street, 
Pittsburgh 15261, PA, USA. Electronic address: materry@pitt.edu.
(9)University of Pittsburgh School of Public Health, 130 De Soto Street, 
Pittsburgh 15261, PA, USA. Electronic address: lsabik@pitt.edu.
(10)Palliative Research Center (PaRC), University of Pittsburgh, 230 McKee 
Place, Suite 600, Pittsburgh 15213, PA, USA; University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Division of General Internal Medicine, 200 Lothrop Street, Pittsburgh 
15213, PA, USA. Electronic address: yas28@pitt.edu.

BACKGROUND: Women with advanced cancer experience significant barriers to 
achieving high-quality care and maximizing their physical and emotional health. 
Our novel serious game, Strong Together, aims to teach women with advanced 
cancer self-advocacy skills needed to improve their symptom burden, quality of 
life, and patient-centered care.
METHODS: This is a single-center, multi-site randomized clinical trial of the 
Strong Together intervention among 336 women within three months of an advanced 
breast or gynecologic cancer diagnosis. Randomization occurs to the 3-month 
Strong Together serious game or enhanced care as usual group. The aims are to: 
(1) evaluate the effects of the intervention on patient self-advocacy (primary 
outcome); (2) evaluate the effects of the intervention on quality of life, 
symptom burden, and patient-centered care (secondary outcomes); and (3) evaluate 
the behavioral and game mechanisms that influence the efficacy of the 
intervention.
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA: female, age ≥ 18 years; diagnosis of advanced breast or 
gynecologic cancer within the past 3 months; Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
score of 0-2; English literacy; and ≥ 6-month life expectancy. Patient-reported 
outcome measures are collected at baseline, 3-months, and 6-months.
CONCLUSION: This protocol is the first large-scale intervention aimed at 
promoting self-advocacy in women with advanced cancer. Understanding the ability 
of serious games to impact patient outcomes provides critical information for 
researchers, clinicians, and stakeholders aiming to improve patient-centered 
care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT04813276.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cct.2022.107003
PMCID: PMC9839496
PMID: 36379436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


832. BMJ Open. 2022 Nov 15;12(11):e065299. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-065299.

Neratinib plus capecitabine versus lapatinib plus capecitabine as the third-line 
therapy for HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer in China: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Wu Y(1), Dong Z(2), Wang J(3), Fang Q(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Logistics Management, Zhejiang Provincial People's Hospital 
(Affiliated People's Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College), Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 
China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Hangzhou Linping District Traditional Chinese 
Hospital, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Ipharmacare Ltd, Hangzhou, China.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Zhejiang Provincial People's Hospital（Affiliated 
People's Hospital, Hangzhou Medical College), Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China 
fangqingxia1966@126.com.

OBJECTIVE: Neratinib plus capecitabine (Ner+Cap) were proved to be clinically 
beneficial as a third-line treatment for women with human epidermal growth 
factor receptor-2 (HER2) positive metastatic breast cancer (MBC). The objective 
of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of Ner+Cap from the Chinese 
healthcare perspective.
DESIGN: A three-state Markov simulation model was performed based on the results 
of NALA trial. The utilities of health state and disutilities of adverse events 
were derived from the published literature. Direct costs of anticancer agents, 
drug administration, routine follow-up and serious adverse events management 
were calculated in the model. Uncertainty was evaluated through univariate and 
probability sensitivity analysis.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients with confirmed HER2-positive MBC who previously received 
at least two HER2-targeted treatments and were aged ≥18 years with an Eastern 
Cooperative Oncology Group performance status 0 or 1. A total of 621 patients 
were enrolled in the NALA trial.
INTERVENTIONS: Third-line treatment with Ner+Cap or lapatinib plus capecitabine 
(Lap+Cap).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary health outcomes of the model were costs, 
expected life-years (LYs), quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: When compared with Lap+Cap, Ner+Cap provided an additional 0.431 LYs 
and 0.339 QALYs, and increased the cost by $4299.2. The corresponding ICERs were 
9970.1/LY and $12 670.2/QALY. Univariate sensitivity analyses suggested that the 
results were generally robust. Besides, Ner+Cap had a 100% probability of being 
cost-effective according to probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Ner+Cap was likely to be a cost-effective regimen as the third-line 
therapy for women with HER2-positive MBC at the willingness-to-pay threshold of 
$37 653.0/QALY in China.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-065299
PMCID: PMC9667994
PMID: 36379662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


833. Sci Rep. 2022 Nov 15;12(1):19540. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-24060-5.

Prognostic model for survival of patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms 
treated with endovascular aneurysm repair.

Meuli L(1), Zimmermann A(2), Menges AL(2), Stefanikova S(3), Reutersberg B(2), 
Makaloski V(3).

Author information:
(1)Department for Vascular Surgery, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland. lorenz.meuli@usz.ch.
(2)Department for Vascular Surgery, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(3)Department for Vascular Surgery, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, Bern, 
Switzerland.

The role of endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) in patients with asymptomatic 
abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) who are unfit for open surgical repair has been 
questioned. The impending risk of aneurysm rupture, the risk of elective repair, 
and the life expectancy must be balanced when considering elective AAA repair. 
This retrospective observational cohort study included all consecutive patients 
treated with standard EVAR for AAA at a referral centre between 2001 and 2020. A 
previously published predictive model for survival after EVAR in patients 
treated between 2001 and 2012 was temporally validated using patients treated at 
the same institution between 2013 and 2020 and updated using the overall cohort. 
558 patients (91.2% males, mean age 74.9 years) were included. Older age, lower 
eGFR, and COPD were independent predictors for impaired survival. A risk score 
showed good discrimination between four risk groups (Harrel's C = 0.70). The 
5-years survival probabilities were only 40% in "high-risk" patients, 68% in 
"moderate-to-high-risk" patients, 83% in "low-to-moderate-risk", and 89% in 
"low-risk" patients. Low-risk patients with a favourable life expectancy are 
likely to benefit from EVAR, while high-risk patients with a short life 
