BACKGROUND: Women living with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) are at risk of 
significantly impaired quality of life (QOL), symptom burden, distress and fear 
of progression, and unmet needs, yet they face barriers to accessing 
evidence-based psychosocial treatments. Our group therefore developed Finding My 
Way-Advanced (FMW-A), a web-based self-guided psychosocial program for women 
with MBC. This study aims to assess its efficacy in improving mental and other 
QOL domains, distress, fear of progression, unmet needs, and health service 
utilisation.
METHODS: The multi-site randomised controlled trial (RCT) will enrol 370 
Australian participants. Eligible participants are adult (18 years +) women 
diagnosed with MBC, with a life expectancy of 6 months or more, with sufficient 
English-language literacy to provide informed consent. Participants will be 
identified, screened and referred from one of 10 Australian sites, or via 
self-referral in response to advertisements. Participants complete four online 
questionnaires: prior to accessing their program ('baseline'), 6 weeks later 
('post-intervention'), then 3 months and 6 months post-intervention. Consenting 
participants will be randomised to either FMW-A (intervention), or Breast Cancer 
Network Australia's (BCNA) online/app resource My Journey (minimal intervention 
attention-control). This is a single-blind study, with randomisation 
computer-generated and stratified by site. FMW-A is a 6-module program 
addressing some of the most common issues experienced by women with MBC, with 
BCNA control resources integrated within the 'resources' section. All modules 
are immediately accessible, with an additional booster module released 10 weeks 
later. The primary outcome is mental QOL; statistical criteria for superiority 
is defined as a 4-point difference between groups at post-treatment. Secondary 
outcomes include other QOL domains, distress, fear of progression, health 
service use, intervention adherence, and user satisfaction.
DISCUSSION: This will be the first adequately powered RCT of a self-directed 
online intervention for women with MBC. If efficacious, FMW-A will help address 
two national key priorities for management of MBC - enhancing QOL and reducing 
symptom burden. FMW-A has the potential to address unmet needs and overcome 
access barriers for this overlooked population, while reducing health system 
burden.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The study was registered prospectively with the ANZCTR on 
29/10/2021. Trial ID ACTRN12621001482853p.  
https://anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?id=382714&isReview=true.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-022-10410-z
PMCID: PMC9789659
PMID: 36566189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


365. Animal. 2023 Jan;17(1):100686. doi: 10.1016/j.animal.2022.100686. Epub 2022
Nov  21.

The impact of work organisation on the work life of people on pasture-based 
dairy farms.

Hogan C(1), Kinsella J(2), Beecher M(3), O'Brien B(3).

Author information:
(1)Teagasc, Animal and Grassland Research and Innovation Centre, Moorepark, 
Fermoy, Co. Cork, P61 9302, Ireland; School of Agriculture and Food Science, 
University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin 4, D04 V1W8, Ireland. Electronic 
address: conor.hogan@teagasc.ie.
(2)School of Agriculture and Food Science, University College Dublin, Belfield, 
Dublin 4, D04 V1W8, Ireland.
(3)Teagasc, Animal and Grassland Research and Innovation Centre, Moorepark, 
Fermoy, Co. Cork, P61 9302, Ireland.

The seasonal workload combined with increased dairy herd sizes and a declining 
workforce have created social sustainability challenges for pasture-based dairy 
farms. Effective work organisation can build productive capacity that may have a 
positive impact on this scenario. Our objective was to develop a framework to 
characterise and examine the effect of work organisation on the working 
situations of the people involved in a sample of 55 pasture-based dairy farms in 
Ireland. We conceptualised that effective work organisation on a dairy farm 
could be considered as a system that is efficient from a labour input 
perspective, resulting in a profitable farming system with outcomes of good 
operator well-being, health and safety, and quality of life. A literature review 
established efficiency & productivity, flexibility and standardisation as our 
three characteristics of work organisation. Using data from an existing labour 
time-use study completed from the 1st February to 30th June 2019, we aimed to 
test the veracity of these work organisation characteristics in the Irish 
pasture-based dairy system. Two proxy indicators were selected to represent each 
of the three work organisation characteristics, and each of the 55 farms were 
categorised into quartiles based on their ranking for these six indicators 
(1 = most effective quartile to 4 = least effective quartile). The most and 
least effective quartiles of farms for work organisation showed similar levels 
of farm labour input and labour efficiency. Farmers in the most effective work 
organisation quartile were working 51.2 h/week from February to June compared 
with 70.0 h/week for farmers in the least effective quartile, which was 
attributed to later start times, earlier finish times, and more time at non-farm 
activity. Farms achieving effective work organisation had a labour-efficient 
system with relatively low farmer working hours. Extension of the work 
organisation concept to other farms could improve their labour situation and aid 
in alleviating some of the key quality of life challenges faced by dairy 
farmers.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.animal.2022.100686
PMID: 36566707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Animal. 2023 Jan;17(1):100690. doi: 10.1016/j.animal.2022.100690. Epub 2022
Dec  1.

Genetic diversity of two native sheep breeds by genome-wide analysis of single 
nucleotide polymorphisms.

Machová K(1), Marina H(2), Arranz JJ(2), Pelayo R(2), Rychtářová J(3), Milerski 
M(3), Vostrý L(4), Suárez-Vega A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Breeding, Czech University of Life Sciences (CZU), 
Prague, Czech Republic, Faculty of Agrobiology, Food and Natural Resources, 
Kamýcká 129, 165 00 Praha, Suchdol, Czech Republic. Electronic address: 
machovakarolina@af.czu.cz.
(2)Department of Animal Production, University of Leon, Leon, Spain, Veterinary 
Faculty, Campus de Vegazana, s/n, 24071 Leon, Spain.
(3)Institute of Animal Science, Prague, Czech republic, Přátelství 815, 104 00 
Praha, Uhříněves, Czech Republic.
(4)Department of Genetics and Breeding, Czech University of Life Sciences (CZU), 
Prague, Czech Republic, Faculty of Agrobiology, Food and Natural Resources, 
Kamýcká 129, 165 00 Praha, Suchdol, Czech Republic.

Wallachian and Sumava sheep are autochthonous breeds that have undergone a 
significant bottleneck effect and subsequent restoration efforts. The first 
objective of this study was to evaluate the degree of genetic variability of 
both breeds and, therefore, the current management of the breeding. The second 
was to determine whether these two breeds still retain their genetic uniqueness 
in relation to each other and other breeds, despite regenerative interventions. 
Our data consisted of 48 individuals of Sumava and 37 individuals of Wallachian 
sheep. The comparison data contained 25 other breeds (primarily European) from 
the HapMap dataset generated by the International Sheep Genomics Consortium. 
When comparing all 27 breeds, the Czech breeds clustered with 15 other breeds 
and formed a single branch with them according to Nei's distances. At the same 
time, however, the clusters of both breeds were integral and easily 
distinguishable from the others when displayed with principal component analysis 
(PCA). Population substructure analysis did not show any common genetic ancestry 
of the Czech national breeds and breeds used for regeneration or, eventually, 
breeds whose ancestral population was used for regeneration. The average values 
of FST were higher in Wallachian sheep (FST = 0.14) than in Sumava sheep 
(FST = 0.08). The linkage disequilibrium (LD) extension per autosome was higher 
in Wallachian than in Sumava sheep. Consequently, the Ne estimates five 
generations ago were 68 for Sumava versus 34 for Wallachian sheep. Both native 
Czech breeds exhibit a wide range of inbreeding based on the excess of 
homozygosity (FHOM) among individuals, from -0.04 to 0.16 in Sumava and from 
-0.13 to 0.12 in Wallachian. Average inbreeding based on runs of homozygosity 
was 0.21 in Sumava and 0.27 in Wallachian. Most detected runs of homozygosity 
(ROH) were less than 5 Mb long for both breeds. ROH segments longer than 15 Mb 
were absent in Wallachian sheep. Concerning putative selection signatures, a 
total of 471 candidate genes in Wallachian sheep within 11 hotspots and 653 
genes within 13 hotspots in Sumava sheep were identified. Czech breeds appear to 
be well differentiated from each other and other European breeds. Their genetic 
diversity is low, especially in the case of the Wallachian breed. Sumava is not 
so threatened by low diversity but has a larger share of the non-native gene 
pool.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.animal.2022.100690
PMID: 36566708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Value Health. 2023 Mar;26(3):378-383. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2022.12.010. Epub
2022  Dec 23.

The Influence of US Drug Price Dynamics on Cost-Effectiveness Analyses of 
Biologics.

Kogut SJ(1), Campbell JD(2), Pearson SD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, University of Rhode Island College of 
Pharmacy, Kingston, RI, USA. Electronic address: skogut@uri.edu.
(2)Institute for Clinical and Economic Review, Boston, MA, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to evaluate the influence of drug price dynamics in 
cost-effectiveness analyses.
METHODS: We evaluated scenarios involving typical US drug price increases during 
the exclusivity period and price decreases after the loss of exclusivity (LOE). 
Worked examples are presented using the Institute for Clinical and Economic 
Review's assessments of tezepelumab for the treatment of severe asthma and 
targeted immune modulators for rheumatoid arthritis.
RESULTS: Tezepelumab case: yearly 2% price increases during the period of 
exclusivity and a post-LOE price decrease of 25% yielded an incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained that increased over the base case from 
$430 300 to $444 600 (+3.2%). Yearly 2% price increases followed by a steeper 
post-LOE price reduction of 40% resulted in a cost per QALY gained of $401 400 
(6.8% reduction vs the base case). Rheumatoid arthritis case: incorporating 
post-LOE price reductions for etanercept (intervention) and adalimumab 
(comparator) ranging from 25% to 40% yielded an incremental cost per QALY of 
$121 000 and $122 300, respectively (< 3% increase from the base case of 
$119 200/QALY). Including a 2% yearly price increase during the projected 
exclusivity periods of both intervention and comparator increased the cost per 
QALY gained by > 60%.
CONCLUSION: Two biologic treatment cases incorporating price dynamics in 
cost-effectiveness analyses had varied impacts on the cost-effectiveness ratio 
depending on the magnitude of pre-LOE price increase and post-LOE price decrease 
and whether the LOE also affected the comparator. Yearly price increase 
magnitude during the period of exclusivity, among other factors, may 
counterbalance the effects of lower post-LOE intervention prices.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2022.12.010
PMID: 36566884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Circ J. 2022 Dec 23. doi: 10.1253/circj.CJ-22-0675. Online ahead of print.

Developing Multidisciplinary Management of Heart Failure in the Super-Aging 
Society of Japan.

Sato Y(1), Kuragaichi T(1), Nakayama H(1), Hotta K(1), Nishimoto Y(1), Kato 
T(2), Taniguchi R(1), Washida K(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Hyogo Prefectural Amagasaki General Medical Center.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Kyoto University Graduate School of 
Medicine.
(3)Department of Nursing, Hyogo Prefectural Amagasaki General Medical Center.

The Japanese population is rapidly aging because of its long life expectancy and 
low birth rate; additionally, the number of patients with heart failure (HF) is 
increasing to the extent that HF is now considered a pandemic. According to a 
recent HF registry study, Japanese patients with HF have both medical and 
care-related problems. Although hospitalization is used to provide medical 
services, and institutionalization is used to provide care for frail older 
adults, it can be difficult to distinguish between them. In this context, 
multidisciplinary management of HF has become increasingly important in 
preventing hospital readmissions and maintaining a patient's quality of life. 
Academia has promoted an increase in the number of certified HF nurses and 
educators. Researchers have issued numerous guidelines or statements on topics 
such as cardiac rehabilitation, nutrition, and palliative care, in addition to 
the diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic HF. Moreover, the Japanese 
government has created incentives through various medical and long-term care 
systems adjustments to increase collaboration between these two fields. This 
review summarizes current epidemiological registries that focus not only on 
medical but also care-related problems and the 10 years of multidisciplinary 
management experience in Japanese medical and long-term care systems.

DOI: 10.1253/circj.CJ-22-0675
PMID: 36567108


369. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk. 2023 Feb;23(2):145-153. doi: 
10.1016/j.clml.2022.11.001. Epub 2022 Nov 6.

Patient Characteristics, Treatment Patterns, and Outcomes in Triple-Class 
Exposed Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma Patients, a Retrospective 
Observational Study Using Czech Registry Data.

Maisnar V(1), Pour L(2), Spicka I(3), Jelinek T(4), Minarik J(5), Jungova A(6), 
Stork M(2), Straub J(3), Radocha J(1), Pika T(7), Pospisilova L(8), Nair S(9), 
Kunovszki P(10), Hajek R(11).

Author information:
(1)Fourth Department of Internal Medicine - Hematology, University Hospital and 
Faculty of Medicine Hradec Kralove, Charles University, Hradec Kralove, Czech 
Republic.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Hematology and Oncology, University Hospital 
Brno, Brno, Czech Republic.
(3)Department of Hematology, First Faculty of Medicine, General University 
Hospital in Prague, Prague, Czech Republic.
(4)Department of Hemato-Oncology, University Hospital Ostrava and Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Ostrava, Ostrava, Czech Republic.
(5)Department of Hemato-Oncology, University Hospital Olomouc, Olomouc, Czech 
Republic.
(6)Department of Hemato-Oncology, University Hospital Pilsen, Pilsen, Czech 
Republic.
(7)Department of Hemato-Oncology, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, Palacky 
University Olomouc and University Hospital Olomouc, Olomouc, Czech Republic.
(8)Institute of Biostatistics and Analyses Ltd., Brno, Czech Republic.
(9)Janssen Global Services, Beerse, Belgium.
(10)Janssen Global Services, Budapest, Hungary.
(11)Department of Hemato-Oncology, University Hospital Ostrava and Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Ostrava, Ostrava, Czech Republic. Electronic address: 
roman.hajek@fno.cz.

BACKGROUND: Although novel therapies improved prognosis of multiple myeloma (MM) 
patients, clinical outcomes in the multi-refractory population are still poor.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We reviewed data from the Czech Registry of Monoclonal 
Gammopathies, identified and characterized triple-class exposed (3CE) 
relapsed/refractory MM patients, treatment patterns after 3CE, assessed overall 
survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), time to next treatment (TTNT), 
explored cohorts with and without triple- and penta-refractoriness.
RESULTS: In 83 3CE patients who started subsequent therapies, the median OS was 
14.2 months (95% CI, 8.5-19.9), PFS 6.2 months (95% CI, 3.9-8.5), and TTNT 7.2 
months (95% CI, 4.6-9.8). Triple- and penta-class refractory patients had a 
significantly worse prognosis in all outcomes. Their life expectancy was 
shorter, the disease progression started earlier, and the TTNT was shorter, 
which increased likelihood of becoming refractory to more therapies. 
Time-to-event results from the first index date and all index dates analyses 
were very similar.
CONCLUSION: Similar to previous studies from the US and Europe, our results show 
a high disease burden. Introduction of novel therapies, such as CAR-T cells, new 
bispecific and trispecific monoclonal antibodies, and other drugs, is expected 
to bring significant benefits to these patients.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clml.2022.11.001
PMID: 36567210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. BMC Health Serv Res. 2022 Dec 26;22(1):1580. doi:
10.1186/s12913-022-08971-7.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of dasatinib versus imatinib in pediatric 
philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients in China.

Cao W(#)(1)(2), Yu Y(#)(1)(2), Qiu Y(3)(4), Liu L(5), Zhang H(1), Shi L(3), Xiao 
Y(3), Jia L(6)(7), Zhang R(8), Wang X(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, National Center for Children's Health, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Research Center, Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital 
Medical University, National Center for Children's Health, Beijing, China.
(3)National Health Development Research Center, National Health Commission, 
Beijing, China.
(4)University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, Qingdao Women and Children's Hospital, Qingdao, 
China.
(6)Department of Pharmacy, Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, National Center for Children's Health, Beijing, China. 
jluyu@126.com.
(7)Department of Clinical Research Center, Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital 
Medical University, National Center for Children's Health, Beijing, China. 
jluyu@126.com.
(8)Hematology Center, Beijing Key Laboratory of Pediatric Hematology Oncology, 
National Key Discipline of Pediatrics (Capital Medical University), Key 
Laboratory of Major Diseases in Children, Ministry of Education, Beijing 
Children's Hospital, Capital Medical University, National Center for Children's 
Health, Beijing, China. zhangruidong@vip.sina.com.
(9)Department of Pharmacy, Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, National Center for Children's Health, Beijing, China. 
wangxiaoling@bch.com.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Dasatinib and imatinib are the recommended tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors (TKIs) for treating pediatric Philadelphia-positive acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph + ALL), and the one which has been approved 
indication in China is imatinib. Recently, clinical demand for Ph + ALL 
treatment is becoming unmet gradually with the increasing resistance of 
imatinib. There are some studies reporting the better efficacy and comparative 
safety of dasatinib compared with imatinib, but no economic comparison has been 
published. This study aims to supplement economic evidence by comparing the 
cost-effectiveness between imatinib and dasatinib in treating pediatric patients 
with Ph+ ALL in China, and to help clinical rational drug use via 
multi-dimensional value assessment.
METHODS: A decision tree model combined with a 10-year Markov model were 
established based on the disease progression. The parameters were collected from 
published literatures and our hospital's electronic medical records. From the 
health system perspective, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
between the two treatment groups was calculated through cost-effectiveness 
analysis and then compared with the willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold. The set 
WTP threshold in this study was 1 times per capita gross domestic product (GDP) 
of China, as recommended by the World Health Organization. Direct medical costs 
and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were calculated and discounted at 5%. 
The sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess the uncertainty and robustness 
of the results.
RESULTS: The total costs were CNY 1,020,995.35 and CNY 1,035,788.50 in imatinib 
group and dasatinib group during the 10-year simulation, and the total QALYs 
were 2.59 and 4.84. Compared with the imatinib treatment group, the ICER was 
around CNY 6,575.78/ QALY, which was less than the set threshold CNY 70,892/ 
QALY. The sensitive analyses indicated the robustness of the results.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness analysis shows the potential cost-effective 
advantages of adding dasatinib comparing with adding imatinib for pediatric 
Ph + ALL patients in China under the set WTP threshold, which indicates that 
those patients could achieve more QALYs by paying acceptable fee.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-022-08971-7
PMCID: PMC9791740
PMID: 36567324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


371. Int J Ment Health Nurs. 2023 Apr;32(2):579-589. doi: 10.1111/inm.13104. Epub
 2022 Dec 25.

The physical health nurse consultant and mental health consumer: An important 
therapeutic partnership.

Tabvuma T(1), Stanton R(2), Happell B(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health, Southern Cross University, Lismore, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(2)School of Health, Medical and Applied Sciences, Central Queensland 
University, Rockhampton, Queensland, Australia.
(3)School of Nursing and Midwifery, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.

People diagnosed with mental illness (hereon referred to as consumers) 
experience a disproportionately lower life expectancy of up 30 years compared to 
the general population. Systemic issues such as diagnostic overshadowing and 
stigma from healthcare professionals have inhibited the development of positive 
therapeutic partnerships that enable consumers to seek and engage support for 
their physical health concerns. Consumers have called for healthcare 
professionals to skillfully develop and prioritize therapeutic partnerships 
whilst coordinating and providing physical healthcare. The aim of this 
qualitative descriptive research was to explore consumer views and experiences 
of their interactions with a specialist mental health nursing role, the Physical 
Health Nurse Consultant. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 14 
consumers from a large public Community Mental Health Service in the Australian 
Capital Territory. Interviews were transcribed and thematically analysed. 
Therapeutic partnerships were an overarching theme identified from the data and 
included three sub-themes: personal attributes of the Physical Health Nurse 
Consultant; behaviour change engagement strategies; and impact of the 
therapeutic partnership. Consumers described the personal and professional 
attributes of the Physical Health Nurse Consultant that enabled the 
establishment and maintenance of their highly valued therapeutic partnership. 
This therapeutic partnership was perceived to positively impact their personal 
and clinical outcomes. With increasing support from consumers, clinical practice 
settings should move towards embedding a Physical Health Nurse Consultant role 
in routine practice. Further research exploring the co-development of health 
behaviour change goals and, barriers and facilitators experienced by the 
consumers regarding the Physical Health Nurse Consultant is required to further 
role development.

© 2022 The Authors. International Journal of Mental Health Nursing published by 
John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/inm.13104
PMID: 36567487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. SSM Popul Health. 2022 Dec 9;21:101306. doi: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2022.101306. 
eCollection 2023 Mar.

Life expectancy, life disparity, and differential racialization among Chinese, 
Asian Indians, and Filipinos in the United States.

Baluran DA(1).

Author information:
(1)The John Glenn College of Public Affairs, The Ohio State University, 310W 
Page Hall, 1810 College Road, Columbus, OH, 43201, USA.

This article advances differential racialization as a lens to frame health 
disparity trends within the Asian racial category. Using formal demographic 
methods, I analyzed data from the Multiple Cause of Death File and the American 
Community Survey to examine the trends in life expectancy and life disparity 
among Chinese, Asian Indians, and Filipinos in the United States between 2005 
and 2019. While Chinese, Asian Indian, and Filipino life expectancy oscillated 
between each period under study, those oscillations contributed to an overall 
widening advantage for Chinese over their Asian Indian and Filipino 
counterparts. I posit that widening inequalities between the three groups are 
suggestive of their increasingly disparate racial statuses. These findings 
underscore the importance of contextualizing disaggregated health data within 
the social conditions that produce inequalities, namely 
race/racialization/racism.

© 2022 The Author.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2022.101306
PMCID: PMC9772563
PMID: 36567799

Conflict of interest statement: None.


373. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2022 Dec 9;10:1059003. doi:
10.3389/fbioe.2022.1059003.  eCollection 2022.

Robust automatic hexahedral cartilage meshing framework enables population-based 
computational studies of the knee.

Gibbons KD(1), Malbouby V(1), Alvarez O(1), Fitzpatrick CK(1).

Author information:
(1)Computational Biosciences Laboratory, Mechanical and Biomedical Engineering, 
Boise State University, Boise, ID, United States.

Osteoarthritis of the knee is increasingly prevalent as our population ages, 
representing an increasing financial burden, and severely impacting quality of 
life. The invasiveness of in vivo procedures and the high cost of cadaveric 
studies has left computational tools uniquely suited to study knee biomechanics. 
Developments in deep learning have great potential for efficiently generating 
large-scale datasets to enable researchers to perform population-sized 
investigations, but the time and effort associated with producing robust 
hexahedral meshes has been a limiting factor in expanding finite element studies 
to encompass a population. Here we developed a fully automated pipeline capable 
of taking magnetic resonance knee images and producing a working finite element 
simulation. We trained an encoder-decoder convolutional neural network to 
perform semantic image segmentation on the Imorphics dataset provided through 
the Osteoarthritis Initiative. The Imorphics dataset contained 176 image 
sequences with varying levels of cartilage degradation. Starting from an 
open-source swept-extrusion meshing algorithm, we further developed this 
algorithm until it could produce high quality meshes for every sequence and we 
applied a template-mapping procedure to automatically place soft-tissue 
attachment points. The meshing algorithm produced simulation-ready meshes for 
all 176 sequences, regardless of the use of provided (manually reconstructed) or 
predicted (automatically generated) segmentation labels. The average time to 
mesh all bones and cartilage tissues was less than 2 min per knee on an AMD 
Ryzen 5600X processor, using a parallel pool of three workers for bone meshing, 
followed by a pool of four workers meshing the four cartilage tissues. Of the 
176 sequences with provided segmentation labels, 86% of the resulting meshes 
completed a simulated flexion-extension activity. We used a reserved testing 
dataset of 28 sequences unseen during network training to produce simulations 
derived from predicted labels. We compared tibiofemoral contact mechanics 
between manual and automated reconstructions for the 24 pairs of successful 
finite element simulations from this set, resulting in mean root-mean-squared 
differences under 20% of their respective min-max norms. In combination with 
further advancements in deep learning, this framework represents a feasible 
pipeline to produce population sized finite element studies of the natural knee 
from subject-specific models.

Copyright © 2022 Gibbons, Malbouby, Alvarez and Fitzpatrick.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2022.1059003
PMCID: PMC9780478
PMID: 36568304

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


374. Front Public Health. 2022 Dec 7;10:1048496. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.1048496.
 eCollection 2022.

Interventions simultaneously promoting social participation and physical 
activity in community living older adults: A systematic review.

Tcymbal A(1), Abu-Omar K(1), Hartung V(1), Bußkamp A(2), Comito C(2), Rossmann 
C(2), Meinzinger D(1), Reimers AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sport Science and Sport, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität 
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.
(2)Federal Centre for Health Education (BZgA), Köln, Germany.

BACKGROUND: In recent years, there has been a global trend toward an increase in 
life expectancy and the proportion of elderly people among the population. In 
this regard, it becomes important to promote active and healthy aging. Physical 
inactivity and social isolation are both risk factors of many chronic illnesses 
and highly prevalent in older adults. This challenges communities to develop 
interventions that reduce these risk factors among elderly populations. The main 
aims of this study were to summarize community-based interventions that aim to 
simultaneously promote social participation and physical activity in older 
adults and to examine their effects.
METHODS: We performed a systematic review based on the PRISMA standards. 
Literature searches were conducted in six scientific databases in July 2021. 
Articles were included if they had an interventional design, focused on older 
adults living in the community and measured social participation and physical 
activity as an outcome. The data were summarized narratively due to the 
heterogeneity of studies and the variety of outcome measures.
RESULTS: Overall, 46 articles published in English were included. The studies 
were grouped in (1) interventions with main focus on physical activity 
promotion; (2) social activities that included a physical activity component; 
(3) health behavior interventions/ health education interventions; (4) 
multicomponent interventions; (5) environmental interventions. The majority of 
the reviewed studies reported positive effects of interventions on physical 
activity and/or social participation. No study reported negative effects. 
Analysis of quantitative studies showed that multicomponent interventions have 
great positive effects on both outcomes. In qualitative studies positive effects 
were found regardless of intervention type.
CONCLUSION: This review summarizes the evidence about the effects of 
community-based interventions that aim to promote social participation and 
physical activity in older adults. Multicomponent interventions seem to be most 
suitable for simultaneous promotion of physical activity and social 
participation. However, high variability in measurement methods used to assess 
both social participation and physical activity in the included studies made it 
difficult to compare studies and to indicate the most effective.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: www.crd.york.ac.uk, identifier: PROSPERO 
[CRD42021268270].

Copyright © 2022 Tcymbal, Abu-Omar, Hartung, Bußkamp, Comito, Rossmann, 
Meinzinger and Reimers.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.1048496
PMCID: PMC9768837
PMID: 36568739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


375. Front Cell Neurosci. 2022 Dec 8;16:1057857. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2022.1057857.
 eCollection 2022.

Altered expression of glycan patterns and glycan-related genes in the medial 
prefrontal cortex of the valproic acid rat model of autism.

Liu Y(1)(2)(3), Di Y(2), Zheng Q(2), Qian Z(2), Fan J(1)(2), Ren W(4), Wei 
Z(1)(2), Tian Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Ministry of Education for Medicinal Plant Resource and 
Natural Pharmaceutical Chemistry, National Engineering Laboratory for Resource 
Developing of Endangered Chinese Crude Drugs in Northwest of China, College of 
Life Sciences, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.
(3)Genetic Engineering Laboratory, College of Biological and Environmental 
Engineering, Xi'an University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.
(4)School of Education, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) represent a group of neurodevelopmental defects 
characterized by social deficits and repetitive behaviors. Alteration in 
Glycosylation patterns could influence the nervous system development and 
contribute to the molecular mechanism of ASD. Interaction of environmental 
factors with susceptible genes may affect expressions of glycosylation-related 
genes and thus result in abnormal glycosylation patterns. Here, we used an 
environmental factor-induced model of autism by a single intraperitoneal 
injection of 400 mg/kg valproic acid (VPA) to female rats at day 12.5 
post-conception. Following confirmation of reduced sociability and increased 
self-grooming behaviors in VPA-treated offspring, we analyzed the alterations in 
the expression profile of glycan patterns and glycan-related genes by lectin 
microarrays and RNA-seq, respectively. Lectin microarrays detected 14 
significantly regulated lectins in VPA rats, with an up-regulation of 
high-mannose with antennary and down-regulation of Siaα2-3 Gal/GalNAc. Based on 
the KEGG and CAZy resources, we assembled a comprehensive list of 961 
glycan-related genes to focus our analysis on specific genes. Of those, 
transcription results revealed that there were 107 differentially expressed 
glycan-related genes (DEGGs) after VPA treatment. Functional analysis of DEGGs 
encoding anabolic enzymes revealed that the process trimming to form core 
structure and glycan extension from core structure primarily changed, which is 
consistent with the changes in glycan patterns. In addition, the DEGGs encoding 
glycoconjugates were mainly related to extracellular matrix and axon guidance. 
This study provides insights into the underlying molecular mechanism of aberrant 
glycosylation after prenatal VPA exposure, which may serve as potential 
biomarkers for the autism diagnosis.

Copyright © 2022 Liu, Di, Zheng, Qian, Fan, Ren, Wei and Tian.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2022.1057857
PMCID: PMC9772556
PMID: 36568890

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


376. Gen Psychiatr. 2022 Nov 25;35(5):e100881. doi: 10.1136/gpsych-2022-100881. 
eCollection 2022.

Proactive psychological and psychiatric support of patients with chronic 
non-communicable diseases in a randomised trial: a Ukrainian experience.

Khaustova OO(1), Markova MV(2), Driuchenko MO(3), Burdeinyi AO(4).

Author information:
(1)Medical Psychology, Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy, Bogomolets 
National Medical University, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(2)Sexology, Psychotherapy and Medical Psychology, Kharkiv Medical Academy of 
Postgraduate Education, Kharkiv, Ukraine.
(3)Uzhhorod National University, Uzhhorod, Ukraine.
(4)Bogomolets National Medical University, Kyiv, Ukraine.

BACKGROUND: Presently, approaches for the early treatment of pathological 
anxiety in patients with chronic non-communicable diseases are lacking, thus 
delaying the initiation of symptom management at the early onset of the illness. 
Proactive psychological and psychiatric support, to alleviate subclinical 
symptoms of anxiety and to improve the quality of life in patients with chronic 
non-communicable diseases, is a promising candidate for the role of such 
therapy.
AIMS: To investigate and determine the effectiveness of proactive psychological 
and psychiatric support for alleviating subclinical symptoms of anxiety and 
improving quality of life, in patients with chronic non-communicable diseases.
METHODS: The study design was a monocentric randomised controlled trial with 
parallel groups. The study, involving 193 inpatients with chronic 
non-communicable diseases, complied with the ethical and deontological norms in 
accordance with the principles set out in the Declaration of Helsinki. 
Instruments used in the study included the Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAM-A) to 
assess subclinical symptoms, the Scale of Somatic Symptoms and the Chaban 
Quality of Life Scale. Block randomisation was used to randomise patients to a 
2-month-long study group with a proactive counselling psychiatry model care or a 
control group with standard regulated treatment for chronic non-communicable 
diseases. The allocation ratio was 1.15:1 owing to the expectancy of a higher 
percentage of dropout in the intervention group.
RESULTS: After 60 days of treatment (T2), there was a statistically significant 
difference in all clinical parameters between the study and control groups. The 
median HAM-A value differed between the groups by 4.87 points, with 
statistically significant lower results in the study group. The comparison of 
the study group's scale values on day 1 and day 60 demonstrated statistically 
significant changes in all three indicators.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results support existing evidence for the effectiveness of 
proactive psychological and psychiatric support to reduce subclinical anxiety 
and somatisation symptoms and to improve the quality of life for patients with 
common chronic non-communicable diseases. However, continued research on the 
effectiveness of proactive psychological and psychiatric support for patients 
with chronic non-communicable diseases is needed.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/gpsych-2022-100881
PMCID: PMC9703355
PMID: 36569174

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


377. Biomed Signal Process Control. 2021 Aug;69:102848. doi: 
10.1016/j.bspc.2021.102848. Epub 2021 Jun 16.

IoT garment for remote elderly care network.

Luna-Perejón F(1)(2), Muñoz-Saavedra L(1)(2), Castellano-Domínguez JM(1), 
Domínguez-Morales M(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Architecture and Computer Technology Department, ETSII-EPS, University of 
Seville, Seville, Spain.
(2)Robotics and Technology of Computers Lab, University of Seville, Seville, 
Spain.
(3)I3US: Research Institute of Computer Engineering, University of Seville, 
Seville, Spain.

The elderly is a continuous growth sector thanks to the life expectancy increase 
in Western society. This sector is especially at risk from the appearance of 
respiratory diseases and, therefore, is the most affected sector in the COVID-19 
epidemic. Many of these elderly require continuous care in residences or by 
specialized caregivers, but these personal contacts put this sector at risk. In 
this work, an IoT system for elderly remote monitoring is studied, designed, 
developed and tested. This system is composed by a smart garment that records 
information from various physiological sensors in order to detect falls, sudden 
changes in body temperature, heart problems and heat stroke; This information is 
sent to a cloud server through a gateway located in the patient's residence, 
allowing to real-time monitor remotely patient's activity using a customized 
App, as well as receiving alerts in dangerous situations. This system has been 
tested with professional caregivers, obtaining usability and functionality 
surveys; and, in addition, a detailed power-consumption study has been carried 
out. The results, compared with other similar systems, demonstrate that the 
proposed one is useful, usable, works in real time and has a decent power 
consumption that allows the patient to carry it during all day without charging 
the battery.

© 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bspc.2021.102848
PMCID: PMC9760329
PMID: 36569387

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


378. Ther Adv Musculoskelet Dis. 2022 Dec 19;14:1759720X221142274. doi: 
10.1177/1759720X221142274. eCollection 2022.

Long-term efficacy and safety of neridronate treatment in patients with complex 
regional pain syndrome type 1: a pre-specified, open-label, extension study.

Varenna M(1), Gatti D(2), Zucchi F(3), Crotti C(3), Braga V(4), Iolascon G(5), 
Frediani B(6), Nannipieri F(7), Rossini M(2).

Author information:
(1)Bone Diseases Unit, Department of Rheumatology, Gaetano Pini Institute, Via 
Pini, 9, 20122 Milan, Italy.
(2)Rheumatology Unit, Department of Medicine, University of Verona, Verona, 
Italy.
(3)Bone Diseases Unit, Department of Rheumatology, Gaetano Pini Institute, 
Milan, Italy.
(4)ULSS 9, Verona, Italy.
(5)Department of Medical and Surgical Specialties, University of Campania 'Luigi 
Vanvitelli', Naples, Italy.
(6)Unit of Rheumatology, University of Siena, Siena, Italy.
(7)Clinical Research, Abiogen Pharma, Pisa, Italy.

BACKGROUND: No data on the permanent and curative effect of bisphosphonate 
treatment in patients with complex regional pain syndrome type-1 (CRPS-1) are 
currently available. The aim of this pre-specified, open-label, observational 
study was to evaluate the long-term efficacy and safety of neridronate 
treatment.
DESIGN: A pre-specified, open-label, extension study.
METHODS: Patients treated with intramuscular (IM) placebo in the double-blind 
phase of the study were assigned to 100 mg intravenous (IV) neridronate 
treatment administered 4 times over 10 days. These patients, together with those 
previously treated with 400 mg IM neridronate, were followed for 1 year. 
Efficacy was assessed using a visual analogue scale (VAS) pain score. Changes in 
clinical signs and symptoms, quality of life (QoL) using the Short Form Health 
Survey (SF-36), and the McGill Pain Questionnaire were also assessed.
RESULTS: Benefits on pain, clinical and functional measures were maintained and 
further improved over 12 months in most patients treated with neridronate 
administered either IM or IV. In IM-treated patients, the percentage of those 
defined as responders (VAS score reduction ≥ 50%) progressively increased up to 
day 360 to 32 of 35 patients (91.4%). Among the 27 patients referred to as 
responders at the end of the double-blind phase, 26 reported the same result at 
day 360 (96.3%). In IV-treated patients, a responder rate of 88% (22 out 25) was 
found at day 360 (p = 0.66 between groups). Consistent improvements were also 
observed for all clinical signs and functional questionnaire. No drug-related 
adverse events were reported during the study.
CONCLUSION: In patients with acute CRPS-1, the benefit in pain, clinical, and 
functional measures observed a few weeks after neridronate treatment 
administered either IM or IV is maintained and further improved over 12 months. 
Parenteral neridronate induces permanent disease remission preventing chronic 
pain and motor dysfunction.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: EU Clinical Trials Register (EudraCT Number): 
2014-001156-28.

© The Author(s), 2022.

DOI: 10.1177/1759720X221142274
PMCID: PMC9772942
PMID: 36569491

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared the following potential 
conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or 
publication of this article: Massimo Varenna has received advisory board 
honoraria from UCB and Kyowa Kirin, consultancy fees from Abiogen and Amgen, and 
speaker fees from Sandoz. Davide Gatti has received advisory board honoraria 
from Pfizer, consultancy fees from Abiogen and UCB, and speaker fees from 
Celgene, Eli Lilly, and Neopharmed Gentili. Francesca Zucchi has received 
speaker fees from Sandoz. Chiara Crotti has received speaker fees from Kyowa 
Kirin and Sandoz. Giovanni Iolascon has received speaker fees from Eli Lilly and 
UCB. Maurizio Rossini has received advisory board honoraria from Abbvie, Sandoz, 
UCB, and Menarini and speaker fees from AbbVie, Amgen, BMS, Galapagos, Eli 
Lilly, Novartis, Pfizer, Theramex, and UCB. Fabrizio Nannipieri is an employee 
of Abiogen Pharma S.p.A. All other authors have no conflict of interest to 
declare.


379. Front Immunol. 2022 Dec 8;13:1029560. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.1029560. 
eCollection 2022.

Precision medicine: The use of tailored therapy in primary immunodeficiencies.

Pinto MV(1)(2), Neves JF(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Primary Immunodeficiencies Unit, Hospital Dona Estefânia, CHULC-EPE, Lisbon, 
Portugal.
(2)Centro de Investigação Egas Moniz (CiiEM), Instituto Universitário Egas Moniz 
(IUEM), Quinta da Granja, Monte da Caparica, Caparica, Portugal.
(3)CHRC, Comprehensive Health Research Centre, Nova Medical School, Lisbon, 
Portugal.

Primary immunodeficiencies (PID) are rare, complex diseases that can be 
characterised by a spectrum of phenotypes, from increased susceptibility to 
infections to autoimmunity, allergy, auto-inflammatory diseases and 
predisposition to malignancy. With the introduction of genetic testing in these 
patients and wider use of next-Generation sequencing techniques, a higher number 
of pathogenic genetic variants and conditions have been identified, allowing the 
development of new, targeted treatments in PID. The concept of precision 
medicine, that aims to tailor the medical interventions to each patient, allows 
to perform more precise diagnosis and more importantly the use of treatments 
directed to a specific defect, with the objective to cure or achieve long-term 
remission, minimising the number and type of side effects. This approach takes 
particular importance in PID, considering the nature of causative defects, 
disease severity, short- and long-term complications of disease but also of the 
available treatments, with impact in life-expectancy and quality of life. In 
this review we revisit how this approach can or is already being implemented in 
PID and provide a summary of the most relevant treatments applied to specific 
diseases.

Copyright © 2022 Pinto and Neves.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.1029560
PMCID: PMC9773086
PMID: 36569887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the review was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


380. Asian J Neurosurg. 2022 Dec 10;17(4):577-583. doi: 10.1055/s-0042-1758846. 
eCollection 2022 Dec.

Outcome of Surgical Treatment for Metastatic Spinal Cord Compression: A 
Single-Center Retrospective Study.

Hashmi SMM(1), Hammoud I(1), Kumar P(1), Sartaj AA(1), Ghosh K(1), Ray A(1), 
Golash A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Royal Preston Hospital, Lancashire, United 
Kingdom.

Objective  The spinal column is one of the most prevalent regions for 
metastasis, with an increasing frequency of spinal metastases. Spinal cord 
metastatic tumor damages the vertebral body, weakens the spinal support, and 
exerts mass effect on the spinal cord. Overzealous surgical intervention does 
not provide any additional benefit in most of the spinal metastasis due to 
shorter life expectancy. The principal goal of this study is to analyze the 
outcome of various surgical treatments offered to patients with metastatic 
spinal cord compression (MSCC). Methods  Retrospective cohort study including 
all patients that underwent surgical intervention for MSCC from March 2013 to 
March 2020. Results  A total of 198 patients were included, 113 males and 85 
females; the mean age was 62 years. The most common primary cancer was prostate 
(21.71%) followed by hematological (20.07%) and lung (16.66%). At 6-month 
postsurgery, 68.68% of patients were Frankel grade D or E (vs. 23.23% 
preoperatively), 16.6% were grade C (vs 57% preoperatively), and 14.64% were 
grade A or B (vs. 19.69% preoperatively). Pain on numeric rating scale was 
decreased from 6.38 ± 3.08 to 3.39 ± 0.73 at 24 hours postsurgery and 
1.94 ± 0.67 at 6 months. Conclusion  This study found that the majority of 
patients, undergoing minimally invasive spinal stabilization and decompression 
for metastatic spinal tumors, have better quality of life, analgesia, and 
mobility. In conclusion, treatment for spinal metastases should be 
individualized and a multidisciplinary approach is needed.

Asian Congress of Neurological Surgeons. This is an open access article 
published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons 
Attribution-NonDerivative-NonCommercial License, permitting copying and 
reproduction so long as the original work is given appropriate credit. Contents 
may not be used for commercial purposes, or adapted, remixed, transformed or 
built upon. ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ ).

DOI: 10.1055/s-0042-1758846
PMCID: PMC9771617
PMID: 36570752

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest None declared.


381. Front Plant Sci. 2022 Dec 9;13:1090072. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2022.1090072. 
eCollection 2022.

Identification of genomic regions associated with soybean responses to 
off-target dicamba exposure.

Canella Vieira C(1), Jarquin D(2), do Nascimento EF(1), Lee D(1), Zhou J(3), 
Smothers S(1), Zhou J(4), Diers B(5), Riechers DE(5), Xu D(6), Shannon G(1), 
Chen P(1), Nguyen HT(4).

Author information:
(1)Fisher Delta Research, Extension, and Education Center, Division of Plant 
Science and Technology, University of Missouri, Portageville, MO, United States.
(2)Agronomy Department, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States.
(3)Biological Systems Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
United States.
(4)Division of Plant Science and Technology, University of Missouri, Columbia, 
MO, United States.
(5)Department of Crop Sciences, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, United 
States.
(6)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Bond Life Sciences 
Center, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, United States.

The widespread adoption of genetically modified (GM) dicamba-tolerant (DT) 
soybean was followed by numerous reports of off-target dicamba damage and yield 
losses across most soybean-producing states. In this study, a subset of the USDA 
Soybean Germplasm Collection consisting of 382 genetically diverse soybean 
accessions originating from 15 countries was used to identify genomic regions 
associated with soybean response to off-target dicamba exposure. Accessions were 
genotyped with the SoySNP50K BeadChip and visually screened for damage in 
environments with prolonged exposure to off-target dicamba. Two models were 
implemented to detect significant marker-trait associations: the 
Bayesian-information and Linkage-disequilibrium Iteratively Nested Keyway 
(BLINK) and a model that allows the inclusion of population structure in 
interaction with the environment (G×E) to account for variable patterns of 
genotype responses in different environments. Most accessions (84%) showed a 
moderate response, either moderately tolerant or moderately susceptible, with 
approximately 8% showing tolerance and susceptibility. No differences in 
off-target dicamba damage were observed across maturity groups and centers of 
origin. Both models identified significant associations in regions of 
chromosomes 10 and 19. The BLINK model identified additional significant 
marker-trait associations on chromosomes 11, 14, and 18, while the G×E model 
identified another significant marker-trait association on chromosome 15. The 
significant SNPs identified by both models are located within candidate genes 
possessing annotated functions involving different phases of herbicide 
detoxification in plants. These results entertain the possibility of developing 
non-GM soybean cultivars with improved tolerance to off-target dicamba exposure 
and potentially other synthetic auxin herbicides. Identification of genetic 
sources of tolerance and genomic regions conferring higher tolerance to 
off-target dicamba may sustain and improve the production of other non-DT 
herbicide soybean production systems, including the growing niche markets of 
organic and conventional soybean.

Copyright © 2022 Canella Vieira, Jarquin, do Nascimento, Lee, Zhou, Smothers, 
Zhou, Diers, Riechers, Xu, Shannon, Chen and Nguyen.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2022.1090072
PMCID: PMC9780662
PMID: 36570921

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


382. HEC Forum. 2022 Dec 26. doi: 10.1007/s10730-022-09504-9. Online ahead of
print.

Life Extension and Overpopulation: Demography, Morals, and the Malthusian 
Objection.

Davoudpour S(1), Davis JK(2).

Author information:
(1)Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, 60611, 
USA. shahin.davoudpour@northwestern.edu.
(2)Department of Philosophy, California State University, Fullerton, Fullerton, 
CA, 92831, USA.

One of the main objections to life extension is that life extension will cause 
severe overpopulation. This objection presents both moral and demographic 
issues. To explore the demographic issue, we present an updated and improved 
version of the formula in chapter six of New Methuselahs for projecting the 
demographic impact of life extension. The new version includes additional 
demographical factors such as non-aging related causes of death. According to 
projections generated with this revised formula, moderate life extension (a life 
expectancy of 120 years) will not significantly increase population at the 
fertility rates current in the developed world, but radical life expectancy 
