substantially; however, PLWH are predisposed to chronic inflammatory conditions 
leading to age-associated diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease, 
neurocognitive disorders, cardiovascular diseases, metabolic syndrome, bone 
abnormalities, and non-HIV-associated cancers. Several approaches have been 
studied in numerous uncontrolled and/or randomized clinical trials with the aim 
of reducing immune activation/inflammatory status in PLWH, none of which have 
achieved consistent results.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines11010159
PMCID: PMC9856151
PMID: 36672667

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


676. Foods. 2023 Jan 11;12(2):342. doi: 10.3390/foods12020342.

Shelf Life Extension and Nutritional Quality Preservation of Sour Cherries 
through High Pressure Processing.

Tenuta MC(1)(2), Artoni E(1), Fava P(1)(3), Bignami C(1)(3), Licciardello 
F(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, 42122 
Reggio Emilia, Italy.
(2)Faculty of Science and Technology, Free University of Bozen-Bolzano, 39100 
Bolzano, Italy.
(3)Interdepartmental Research Centre for the Improvement of Agri-Food Biological 
Resources (BIOGEST-SITEIA), University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, 42122 Reggio 
Emilia, Italy.

The present study assessed the effectiveness of high pressure processing (HPP) 
for the quality maintenance of pitted sour cherries, with special regard to 
microbial stabilization and the maintenance of color and of chemical-nutritional 
properties. The HPP treatment (600 MPa for 3 min at 4 Â°C) was effective at 
minimizing the initial microbial load, which remained at negligible levels 
throughout 5 months of refrigerated storage. The color and total phytochemical 
content of sour cherries were not influenced by the HPP treatment and were 
maintained at levels comparable with the fresh product for 3 months of 
refrigerated storage. For longer storage periods, the typical red color 
decreased, in agreement with the content of total anthocyanins, which showed a 
significant decrease (up to 65% after 5 months). The antioxidant activity, 
measured by the ABTS and DPPH assays, was not affected by the HPP treatment, but 
slightly reduced during refrigerated storage. The study suggests that HPP may be 
exploited to extend the shelf life, while maintaining the fresh-like features of 
sour cherries, thus offering an alternative option to current preservation 
techniques (based on freezing or heating) commonly applied to this product.

DOI: 10.3390/foods12020342
PMCID: PMC9857671
PMID: 36673434

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.


677. Foods. 2023 Jan 11;12(2):354. doi: 10.3390/foods12020354.

Antioxidant and Antibacterial Activity of Four Tannins Isolated from Different 
Sources and Their Effect on the Shelf-Life Extension of Vacuum-Packed Minced 
Meat.

Nguyen CNM(1), Nirmal NP(1)(2), Sultanbawa Y(1), Ziora ZM(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Nutrition and Food Sciences, Queensland Alliance for Agriculture 
and Food Innovation, Health and Food Science Precinct, 39 Kessels Road, Coopers 
Plains, Brisbane, QLD 4108, Australia.
(2)Institute of Nutrition, Mahidol University, 999 Phutthamonthon 4 Road, 
Salaya, Nakhon Pathom 73170, Thailand.
(3)Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, St Lucia, 
Brisbane, QLD 4072, Australia.

Four tannin samples extracted from chestnut wood (tannin oenologique, TO), grape 
(tannin VR grape, TVG), oak gall (tannin galalcool, TG), and oak tree (tannin VR 
supra elegance, TE) were evaluated for antioxidant and antibacterial activity. 
The highest total phenolic content (TPC) values were observed in the order of 
TVG > TG > TE > TO (p < 0.05). The antioxidant activities of all samples were 
determined in terms of DPPH radical scavenging activity, reducing power, 
metal-chelating activity, and linoleic acid peroxidation assay. The antioxidant 
activities of all samples vary and no correlation was observed with the 
respective TPC values of each sample. Antibacterial activities indicate that all 
samples showed more or less inhibitory effects against selected Gram-positive 
and Gram-negative bacteria. Based on antioxidant and antibacterial activity, TO 
and TVG were selected for the beef mince quality preservation study during 
refrigerated storage. Both TO and TVG at two different concentrations, 0.25 and 
0.5%, could cease the chemical and microbial changes as compared to the control 
sample. Although total viable count (TVC) did not show a significant difference, 
the H2S-producing bacteria count was lower in all samples treated with TO and 
TVG compared to sodium metabisulfite (SMS) and the control sample (p < 0.05). 
Therefore, TO and TVG could be promising natural food preservatives during 
refrigerated storage.

DOI: 10.3390/foods12020354
PMCID: PMC9858154
PMID: 36673446

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


678. Healthcare (Basel). 2023 Jan 13;11(2):245. doi: 10.3390/healthcare11020245.

A Scoping Review on COVID-19 Vaccine Hesitancy among the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, 
Transgender, Queer, Intersex and Asexual (LGBTQIA+) Community and Factors 
Fostering Its Refusal.

Balaji JN(1), Prakash S(1), Joshi A(2)(3), Surapaneni KM(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Panimalar Medical College Hospital & Research Institute, Varadharajapuram, 
Chennai 600-123, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)School of Public Health, The University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152, USA.
(3)SMAART Population Health Informatics Intervention Center, Foundation of 
Healthcare Technologies Society, Panimalar Medical College Hospital & Research 
Institute, Varadharajapuram, Chennai 600-123, Tamil Nadu, India.
(4)Departments of Biochemistry, Medical Education, Molecular Virology, Research, 
Clinical Skills & Simulation, Panimalar Medical College Hospital & Research 
Institute, Varadharajapuram, Chennai 600-123, Tamil Nadu, India.

BACKGROUND: The ramifications of the existing crisis caused by the coronavirus 
pandemic are sensed in all walks of life. Among the various efforts made to curb 
the spread of this novel infection, the development of COVID-19 vaccines had a 
profound role in flattening the pandemic curve. Even though the rapid vaccine 
drive received a highly welcoming response among people, the reluctance and 
ignorance of a part of the population towards available safe vaccines stand as 
impediments to achieving the desired outcome. The LGBTQIA+ (Lesbian, Gay, 
Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Intersex and Asexual) communities are the least 
studied groups in this regard.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to extensively review and report on 
COVID-19 vaccine uptake and refusal among the LGBTQIA+ population and enumerate 
the factors contributing to vaccine hesitancy. The study extends further to 
outline a conceptual framework for interventions to enhance COVID-19 vaccine 
acceptance among the LGBTQIA+ population.
METHODS: We performed a systematic search using key terms on Google Scholar and 
PubMed. The obtained results were filtered using the eligibility criteria framed 
for this study. The initial search provided an extensive result of 4510 articles 
which were later screened at various levels to arrive at the final inclusive 
collection of manuscripts adding to 17. The studies were analyzed by the authors 
individually, and the data were categorized using variables. The results are 
interpreted using charts and graphs. The whole manuscript has been structured in 
accordance with the PRISMA extension for scoping reviews.
RESULT: The comprehensive search yielded 17 eligible articles for this review. 
Most of the studies were conducted in the United States (n = 17), and 
predominantly cross-sectional studies have been conducted. The major comparative 
factor was the HIV status of the LGBTQIA+ population. HIV-affected patients were 
more willing to take up COVID-19 vaccination. However, social stigma, 
discrimination, lack of access and non-prioritization in vaccine drives were 
found to be the major factors contributing to vaccine hesitancy among this 
population.
CONCLUSION: The invention of the COVID-19 vaccination revolutionized the 
healthcare systems burdened with COVID-19. Although this is a breakthrough 
scientific contribution, many factors are associated with the rate of vaccine 
acceptance, especially among sexual and gender minorities. The reviewed studies 
have revealed numerous factors that influence vaccine uptake and refusal with 
the commonest being concerns on discrimination, social stigma, inequitable 
access to healthcare, vaccine safety, efficacy, potency, side effects and lack 
of trust in medical workers. These impediments in vaccine coverage should be 
meticulously addressed to ensure optimum LGBTQIA+ physical and mental health as 
well as for providing non-discriminative, equitable and quality healthcare 
service regardless of the gender or sexual orientation of individuals.

DOI: 10.3390/healthcare11020245
PMCID: PMC9859126
PMID: 36673613

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict to interest.


679. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Jan 4;20(2):912. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20020912.

Contribution of Genetic Polymorphisms in Human Health.

Chiarella P(1), Capone P(1), Sisto R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, Epidemiology and 
Hygiene, INAIL Research, Via Fontana Candida 1, Monteporzio Catone, 00078 Rome, 
Italy.

Human health is influenced by various factors; these include genetic 
inheritance, behavioral lifestyle, socioeconomic and environmental conditions, 
and public access to care and therapies in case of illness, with the support of 
the national health system. All these factors represent the starting point for 
the prevention and promotion of a healthy lifestyle. However, it is not yet 
clear to what extent these factors may actually affect the health of an entire 
population. The exposures to environmental and occupational factors are several, 
most of which might be poorly known, contributing to influencing individual 
health. Personal habits, including diet, smoking, alcohol, and drug consumption, 
together with unhealthy behaviors, may inevitably lead people to the development 
of chronic diseases, contributing to increasing aging and decreasing life 
expectancy. In this article, we highlight the role of susceptibility biomarkers, 
i.e., the genetic polymorphisms of individuals of different ethnicities, with 
particular attention to the risk factors in the response to specific exposures 
of Europeans. Moreover, we discuss the role of precision medicine which is 
representing a new way of treating and preventing diseases, taking into account 
the genetic variability of the individual with each own clinical history and 
lifestyle.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20020912
PMCID: PMC9858723
PMID: 36673670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


680. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Jan 5;20(2):990. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20020990.

Preliminary Evaluation of Sedentary Lifestyle in Italian Children after Solid 
Transplant: What Role Could Physical Activity Play in Health? It Is Time to 
Move.

Tranchita E(1), Cafiero G(1), Giordano U(1), Guzzo I(2), Labbadia R(2), Palermi 
S(3), Cerulli C(4), Candusso M(5), Spada M(6), RavÃ  L(7), Gentili F(1), Drago 
F(8), Turchetta A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Cardiology and Heart Lung Transplant, Division 
of Sports Medicine, Bambino GesÃ¹ Children's Hospital IRCCS, 00165 Rome, Italy.
(2)Kidney Transplant Follow-Up Unit, Division of Nephrology, Department of 
Pediatrics, Bambino GesÃ¹ Children's Hospital IRCCS, 00165 Rome, Italy.
(3)Public Health Department, University of Naples Federico II, 80131 Naples, 
Italy.
(4)Unit of Physical Exercise and Sport Sciences, Department of Movement, Human 
and Health Sciences, University of Rome Foro Italico, 00135 Rome, Italy.
(5)Hepatology, Gastroenterology, Nutrition and Liver transplantation Unit, 
Bambino GesÃ¹ Children's Hospital IRCCS, 00165 Rome, Italy.
(6)Division of Abdominal Transplantation and Hepato-Bilio-Pancreatic Surgery, 
Bambino GesÃ¹ Children's Hospital IRCCS, 00165 Rome, Italy.
(7)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Bambino GesÃ¹ Children's Hospital IRCCS, 00165, 
Rome, Italy.
(8)Paediatric Cardiology and Cardiac Arrhythmias Unit, Department of Cardiac 
Surgery, Cardiology and Heart Lung Transplant, Bambino GesÃ¹ Children's Hospital 
IRCCS, 00165 Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Advances in the medical-surgical field have significantly increased 
survival after solid organ transplantation in the pediatric population. However, 
these patients are predisposed to the development of long-term complications 
(e.g., cardiovascular disease). The therapeutic role of physical activity (PA) 
to counteract these complications is well known. The purpose of the study was to 
investigate the level of PA in a pediatric population after solid organ 
transplantation.
METHODS: In the first 4 weeks at the beginning of the school year, the Physical 
Activity Questionnaire for Older Children and Adolescents was administered to 
young patients who had previously undergone solid transplants at our institute.
RESULTS: Questionnaires of 49 patients (57.1% female, mean age 13.2 Â± 3.5 years) 
were analyzed and 32.7% of subjects did not perform any exercise during school 
physical education classes. Only 24% practiced a moderate quantity of exercise 
in the previous week (2-3 times/week) and 72% engaged in sedentary behaviors 
during weekends.
CONCLUSIONS: Preliminary data confirmed that young recipients are still far from 
meeting the minimum indications of the World Health Organization on PA and 
sedentary behavior. It will be necessary to increase their involvement in PA 
programs in order not only to increase their life expectancy but also to improve 
their quality of life.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20020990
PMCID: PMC9859408
PMID: 36673745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


681. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Jan 8;20(2):1096. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20021096.

Can the Policy of Increasing Retirement Age Raise Pension Revenue in China-A 
Case Study of Anhui Province.

Hu J(1), Stauvermann PJ(2), Nepal S(3), Zhou Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Jiaxing University, Jiaxing 314000, China.
(2)Department of Global Business & Economics, Changwon National University, 
Changwon 51140, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Global Business Management, Gangseo University, Seoul 07661, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)College of Business, Jiaxing Nanhu University, Jiaxing 314000, China.

With gradual progress in the medical field and the rising living standard of 
people, the life expectancy of people is gradually increasing. Unfortunately, 
this positive development contributes significantly to the aging of societies 
and creates huge challenges for pension systems. In order to mitigate the 
pressure on its pension system in the coming years, China is considering 
increasing the retirement age, just like many other countries. Based on the wage 
data of urban employees, pension revenue and expenditure data of employees in 
Anhui Province over the years, we constructed a model to predict average wages 
and forecast the revenue of the urban pension system from 2022 to 2032. We 
predicted the pension revenues by simulating an adjusted retirement age under 
two different schemes. The results of the study showed that the policies of 
appropriately increasing the retirement age can raise pension revenue. Compared 
with a one-step retirement age change scheme, a rolling retirement age change 
scheme that increases the retirement age by several months each year was found 
to be more suitable for the healthy development of the pension system.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20021096
PMCID: PMC9859231
PMID: 36673853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


682. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Jan 8;20(2):1125. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20021125.

Exploring the Association between Oxygen Concentration and Life Expectancy in 
China: A Quantitative Analysis.

Zou Q(1), Lai Y(1)(2), Lun ZR(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Statistics, School of Public Health, Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Guangzhou 510080, China.
(2)Sun Yat-Sen Global Health Institute, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou 
510080, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Guangzhou 510275, China.

The aim of this study was to investigate and quantify the association between 
oxygen concentration and life expectancy. The data from 34 provinces and 39 
municipalities were included in all analyses. Bayesian regression modeling with 
spatial-specific random effects was used to quantify the impact of oxygen 
concentration (measured as partial pressure of oxygen) on life expectancy, 
adjusting for other potential confounding factors. We used hierarchical cluster 
analysis to group the provinces according to disease burden and analyzed the 
oxygen levels and the characteristics of causes of death between the clusters. 
The Bayesian regression analysis showed that the life expectancy at the 
provincial level increased by 0.15 (95% CI: 0.10-0.19) years, while at the 
municipal level, it increased by 0.17 (95% CI: 0.12-0.22) years, with each 
additional unit (mmHg) of oxygen concentration, after controlling for potential 
confounding factors. Three clusters were identified in the hierarchical cluster 
analysis, which were characterized by different oxygen concentrations, and the 
years of life lost from causes potentially related to hypoxia were statistically 
significantly different between the clusters. A positive correlation was found 
between oxygen concentration and life expectancy in China. The differences in 
causes of death and oxygen levels in the provincial clusters suggested that 
oxygen concentration may be an important factor in life expectancy when mediated 
by diseases that are potentially related to hypoxia.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20021125
PMCID: PMC9859324
PMID: 36673882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


683. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Jan 11;20(2):1347. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20021347.

The Use of a Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) to Predict Patients' Usage of a 
Personal Health Record System: The Role of Security, Privacy, and Usability.

Alsyouf A(1), Lutfi A(2)(3), Alsubahi N(4)(5), Alhazmi FN(4), Al-Mugheed K(6), 
Anshasi RJ(7), Alharbi NI(8), Albugami M(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Managing Health Services & Hospitals, Faculty of Business 
Rabigh, College of Business (COB), King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah 21991, 
Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Accounting, College of Business (COB), King Faisal University, 
Al-Ahsa 31982, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Applied Science Research Center, Applied Science Private University, Amman 
11931, Jordan.
(4)Department of Health Services and Hospitals Administration, Faculty of 
Economics and Administration, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah 21589, Saudi 
Arabia.
(5)Department of Health Services Research, Faculty of Health, Medicine, and Life 
Sciences, Maastricht University Medical Center, 6229 HX Maastricht, The 
Netherlands.
(6)Nursing College, Riyadh Elm University, Riyadh 13244, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Prosthodontics Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Jordan University of Science 
and Technology, Irbid 22110, Jordan.
(8)Department of Business Administration, College of Business Administration 
(CBA), University of Business and Technology (UBT), Jeddah 23435, Saudi Arabia.
(9)Department of Management Information Systems, College of Business (COB) 
Rabigh, King Abdulaziz University, P.O. Box 344, Jeddah 21991, Saudi Arabia.

Personal health records (PHR) systems are designed to ensure that individuals 
have access and control over their health information and to support them in 
being active participants rather than passive ones in their healthcare process. 
Yet, PHR systems have not yet been widely adopted or used by consumers despite 
their benefits. For these advantages to be realized, adoption of the system is 
necessary. In this study, we examined how self-determination of health 
management influences individuals' intention to implement a PHR system, i.e., 
their ability to actively manage their health. Using an extended technology 
acceptance model (TAM), the researchers developed and empirically tested a model 
explaining public adoption of PHRs. In total, 389 Saudi Arabian respondents were 
surveyed in a quantitative cross-sectional design. The hypotheses were analysed 
using structural equation modelling-partial least squares (SEM-PLS4). Results 
indicate that PHR system usage was influenced by three major factors: perceived 
ease of use (PEOU), perceived usefulness (PU), and security towards intention to 
use. PHR PEOU and PHR intention to use were also found to be moderated by 
privacy, whereas usability positively moderated PHR PEOU and PHR intention to 
use and negatively moderated PHR PU and PHR intention to use. For the first 
time, this study examined the use of personal health records in Saudi Arabia, 
including the extension of the TAM model as well as development of a 
context-driven model that examines the relationship between privacy, security, 
usability, and the use of PHRs. Furthermore, this study fills a gap in the 
literature regarding the moderating effects of privacy influence on PEOU and 
intention to use. Further, the moderating effects of usability on the 
relationship between PEOU, PU, and intention to use. Study findings are expected 
to assist government agencies, health policymakers, and health organizations 
around the world, including Saudi Arabia, in understanding the adoption of 
personal health records.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20021347
PMCID: PMC9859518
PMID: 36674105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


684. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Jan 14;20(2):1552. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20021552.

The Global, Regional and National Burden of Pancreatic Cancer Attributable to 
Smoking, 1990 to 2019: A Systematic Analysis from the Global Burden of Disease 
Study 2019.

Jiang W(1), Xiang C(1), Du Y(1), Li X(2), Zhou W(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)The Second Clinical Medical College, Lanzhou University, No. 222 Tianshui 
South Road, Cheng-Guan District, Lanzhou 730030, China.
(2)The First Clinical Medical College, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730030, 
China.
(3)Department of General Surgery, Lanzhou University Second Hospital, Lanzhou 
730030, China.

OBJECTIVE: Pancreatic cancer poses a serious medical problem worldwide. Studies 
have reported the relationship between smoking and cancer. This study aimed to 
evaluate the burden of pancreatic cancer attributable to smoking and its global, 
regional and national trends, patterns and alterations from 1990 to 2019.
METHODS: Data were extracted from the Global Health Data Exchange query tool, 
including deaths, disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) and age-standardized 
rates (ASRs). Measures were stratified by sex, age, region, country/territory 
and sociodemographic index (SDI). We used Joinpoint regression to determine the 
secular trend of ASRs by calculating the average annual percentage change 
(AAPC).
RESULTS: In 2019, smoking risk-related deaths and DALYs accounted for 21.3% and 
21.1% of global pancreatic cancer, respectively. There were 113,384 (95% UI 
98,830 to 128,466) deaths of smoking-attributable pancreatic cancer worldwide in 
2019, of which 64.1% were in males. The disease burden was higher in males than 
in females. High-income regions or large population regions had the higher 
disease burden. East Asia carried the highest number of smoking-attributable 
pancreatic cancer deaths and DALYs. The Caribbean had the fastest increasing 
rate (AAPC = 3.849, 95% CI 3.310 to 4.391) of age-standardized death rate over 
the past 30 years. In 2019, China had the highest number of deaths, which was 
followed by the USA and Japan. There was a trend of increasing ASDR along with 
increases in SDI.
CONCLUSION: Variations existed in the smoking risk-related pancreatic cancer 
burden among different sexes, age groups, regions and countries/territories. The 
burden of smoking-attributable pancreatic cancer should be considered an 
important health issue. Future strategies should include comprehensive policies 
to control tobacco use.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20021552
PMCID: PMC9859604
PMID: 36674311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


685. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Jan 15;24(2):1730. doi: 10.3390/ijms24021730.

Biosynthesis of Î±-Bisabolol by Farnesyl Diphosphate Synthase and Î±-Bisabolol 
Synthase and Their Related Transcription Factors in Matricaria recutita L.

Tai Y(1), Wang H(1), Yao P(1), Sun J(1), Guo C(1), Jin Y(1), Yang L(1), Chen 
Y(1), Shi F(1), Yu L(1), Li S(1), Yuan Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei 230036, China.

The essential oil of German chamomile (Matricaria recutita L.) is widely used in 
food, cosmetics, and the pharmaceutical industry. Î±-Bisabolol is the main active 
substance in German chamomile. Farnesyl diphosphate synthase (FPS) and 
Î±-bisabolol synthase (BBS) are key enzymes related to the Î±-bisabolol 
biosynthesis pathway. However, little is known about the Î±-bisabolol 
biosynthesis pathway in German chamomile, especially the transcription factors 
(TFs) related to the regulation of Î±-bisabolol synthesis. In this study, we 
identified MrFPS and MrBBS and investigated their functions by prokaryotic 
expression and expression in hairy root cells of German chamomile. The results 
suggest that MrFPS is the key enzyme in the production of sesquiterpenoids, and 
MrBBS catalyzes the reaction that produces Î±-bisabolol. Subcellular localization 
analysis showed that both MrFPS and MrBBS proteins were located in the cytosol. 
The expression levels of both MrFPS and MrBBS were highest in the extension 
period of ray florets. Furthermore, we cloned and analyzed the promoters of 
MrFPS and MrBBS. A large number of cis-acting elements related to light 
responsiveness, hormone response elements, and cis-regulatory elements that 
serve as putative binding sites for specific TFs in response to various biotic 
and abiotic stresses were identified. We identified and studied TFs related to 
MrFPS and MrBBS, including WRKY, AP2, and MYB. Our findings reveal the 
biosynthesis and regulation of Î±-bisabolol in German chamomile and provide novel 
insights for the production of Î±-bisabolol using synthetic biology methods.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms24021730
PMCID: PMC9864331
PMID: 36675248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


686. Life (Basel). 2022 Dec 24;13(1):49. doi: 10.3390/life13010049.

Improved Detection of Cavernous Sinus Invasion of Pituitary Macroadenomas with 
Ultra-High-Field 7 T MRI.

Eisenhut F(1), Schmidt MA(1), Buchfelder M(2), Doerfler A(1), Schlaffer SM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroradiology, University Hospital Erlangen, 
Friedrich-Alexander-UniversitÃ¤t Erlangen-NÃ¼rnberg, Schwabachanlage 6, 91054 
Erlangen, Germany.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital Erlangen, 
Friedrich-Alexander-UniversitÃ¤t Erlangen-NÃ¼rnberg, Schwabachanlage 6, 91054 
Erlangen, Germany.

To compare 7 T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of pituitary macroadenomas (PMA) 
with standard MRI and intraoperative findings regarding tumor detection, 
localization, size, and extension. Patients with suspected pituitary adenoma 
underwent pre-operative 1.5 T or 3 T and 7 T MRI; 14 patients with a PMA were 
included. A qualitative (lesion detection, location, cavernous sinus 
infiltration) and quantitative (lesion size, depth of cavernous sinus 
infiltration) analysis of 1.5 T, 3 T and 7 T MRI was performed and compared with 
intraoperative findings. Both 1.5/3 T and 7 T MRI enabled the detection of all 
PMAs; lesion size determination was equal. 7 T MRI enables more precise 
assessments of cavernous sinus infiltration of PMA (ncorrect 7T = 78.6%, 
ncorrect 1.5/3T = 64.3%). Ultra-high-field MRI is a reliable imaging modality 
for evaluation of PMAs providing exact information on lesion location and size. 
7 T MRI yielded more accurate information on cavernous sinus infiltration with 
better agreement with intraoperative findings than standard MRI.

DOI: 10.3390/life13010049
PMCID: PMC9867165
PMID: 36675998

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


687. Life (Basel). 2023 Jan 3;13(1):128. doi: 10.3390/life13010128.

Exercise-Induced Pulmonary Hypertension: A Valid Entity or Another Factor of 
Confusion?

Khattab E(1), Velidakis N(1), Gkougkoudi E(1), Kadoglou NPE(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical School, University of Cyprus, 2029 Nicosia, Cyprus.

Exercise-induced pulmonary hypertension EIPH has been defined as an increase in 
mean pulmonary arterial pressure (mPAP) during exercise in otherwise normal 
values at rest. EIPH reflects heart and/or lung dysfunction and may precede the 
development of manifest pulmonary hypertension (PH) in a proportion of patients. 
It is also associated with decreased life expectancy in patients with heart 
failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) or left ventricle (LV) valvular 
diseases. Diastolic dysfunction exacerbated during exercise relates to increased 
LV filling pressure and left atrial pressure (LAP). In this context backward, 
transmitted pressure alone or accompanied with backward blood flow promotes 
EIPH. The gold standard of EIPH assessment remains the right heart 
catheterization during exercise, which is an accurate but invasive method. 
Alternatively, non-invasive diagnostic modalities include exercise stress 
echocardiography (ESE) and cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET). Both 
diagnostic tests are performed under gradually increasing physical stress using 
treadmill and ergo-cycling protocols. Escalating workload during the exercise is 
analogous to the physiological response to real exercise. The results of the 
latter techniques show good correlation with invasive measurements, but they 
suffer from lack of validation and cut-off value determination. Although it is 
not officially recommended, there are accumulated data supporting the importance 
of EIPH diagnosis in the assessment of other mild/subclinical or probably fatal 
diseases in patients with latent PH or heart failure or LV valvular disease, 
respectively. Nevertheless, larger, prospective studies are required to ensure 
its role in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.3390/life13010128
PMCID: PMC9860538
PMID: 36676077

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


688. Life (Basel). 2023 Jan 10;13(1):202. doi: 10.3390/life13010202.

Widefield and Ultra-Widefield Retinal Imaging: A Geometrical Analysis.

Lucente A(1), Taloni A(2), Scorcia V(2), Giannaccare G(2).

Author information:
(1)Private Practice, Studio Lucente, 87012 Castrovillari, Italy.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University "Magna GrÃ¦cia", 87012 Catanzaro, 
Italy.

Diabetic retinopathy (DR) often causes a wide range of lesions in the peripheral 
retina, which can be undetected when using a traditional fundus camera. 
Widefield (WF) and Ultra-Widefield (UWF) technologies aim to significantly 
expand the photographable retinal field. We conducted a geometrical analysis to 
assess the field of view (FOV) of WF and UWF imaging, comparing it to the 
angular extension of the retina. For this task, we shot WF images using the 
Zeiss Clarus 500 fundus camera (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Jena, Germany). 
Approximating the ocular bulb to an ideal sphere, the angular extension of the 
theoretically photographable retinal surface was 242 degrees. Performing one 
shot, centered on the macula, it was possible to photograph a retinal surface of 
~570 mm2, with a FOV of 133 degrees. Performing four shots with automatic 
montage, we obtained a retinal surface area of ~1100 mm2 and an FOV of 200 
degrees. Finally, performing six shots with semi-automatic montage, we obtained 
a retinal surface area of ~1400 mm2 and an FOV of 236.27 degrees, which is close 
to the entire surface of the retina. WF and UWF imaging allow the detailed 
visualization of the peripheral retina, with significant impact on the diagnosis 
and management of DR.

DOI: 10.3390/life13010202
PMCID: PMC9867331
PMID: 36676151

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


689. Nutrients. 2023 Jan 8;15(2):314. doi: 10.3390/nu15020314.

Can Bioactive Food Substances Contribute to Cystic Fibrosis-Related 
Cardiovascular Disease Prevention?

Trandafir LM(1), FrÄsinariu OE(1), ÈarcÄ E(2), Butnariu LI(3), Leon Constantin 
MM(4), Moscalu M(5), Temneanu OR(1), Melinte Popescu AS(6), Popescu MGM(6), 
StÃ¢rcea IM(1), Cojocaru E(7), Moisa SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mother and Child Medicine-Pediatrics, "Grigore T. Popa" 
University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 700115 IaÅi, Romania.
(2)Department of Surgery II-Pediatric Surgery, "Grigore T. Popa" University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, 700115 IaÅi, Romania.
(3)Department of Medical Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, "Grigore T. Popa" 
University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 700115 IaÈi, Romania.
(4)Medical I Department, "Grigore T. Popa" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
700115 IaÅi, Romania.
(5)Department of Preventive Medicine and Interdisciplinarity, "Grigore T. Popa" 
University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 700115 IaÈi, Romania.
(6)Department of General Nursing, Faculty of Medicine and Biological Sciences, 
"Åtefan cel Mare" University of Suceava, 720229 Suceava, Romania.
(7)Department of Morphofunctional Sciences I-Pathology, "Grigore T. Popa" 
University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 700115 IaÅi, Romania.

Advances in cystic fibrosis (CF) care have significantly improved the quality of 
life and life expectancy of patients. Nutritional therapy based on a 
high-calorie, high-fat diet, antibiotics, as well as new therapies focused on 
CFTR modulators change the natural course of the disease. They do so by 
improving pulmonary function and growing BMI. However, the increased weight of 
such patients can lead to unwanted long-term cardiovascular effects. People with 
CF (pwCF) experience several cardiovascular risk factors. Such factors include a 
high-fat diet and increased dietary intake, altered lipid metabolism, a decrease 
in the level of fat-soluble antioxidants, heightened systemic inflammation, 
therapeutic interventions, and diabetes mellitus. PwCF must pay special 
attention to food and eating habits in order to maintain a nutritional status 
that is as close as possible to the proper physiological one. They also have to 
benefit from appropriate nutritional counseling, which is essential in the 
evolution and prognosis of the disease. Growing evidence collected in the last 
years shows that many bioactive food components, such as phytochemicals, 
polyunsaturated fatty acids, and antioxidants have favorable effects in the 
management of CF. An important positive effect is cardiovascular prevention. The 
possibility of preventing/reducing cardiovascular risk in CF patients enhances 
both quality of life and life expectancy in the long run.

DOI: 10.3390/nu15020314
PMCID: PMC9860597
PMID: 36678185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


690. Nutrients. 2023 Jan 9;15(2):318. doi: 10.3390/nu15020318.

Estimated Impact of Achieving the Australian National Sodium Reduction Targets 
on Blood Pressure, Chronic Kidney Disease Burden and Healthcare Costs: A 
Modelling Study.

Aminde LN(1), Wanjau MN(1), Cobiac LJ(1), Veerman JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Public Health & Economics Modelling Group, School of Medicine & Dentistry, 
Griffith University, Gold Coast, QLD 4222, Australia.

Excess sodium intake raises blood pressure which increases the risk of chronic 
kidney disease (CKD). We aimed to estimate the impact of reduced sodium intake 
on future CKD burden in Australia. A multi-cohort proportional multistate 
lifetable model was developed to estimate the potential impact on CKD burden and 
health expenditure if the Australian Suggested Dietary Target (SDT) and the 
National Preventive Health Strategy 2021-2030 (NPHS) sodium target were 
achieved. Outcomes were projected to 2030 and over the lifetime of adults alive 
in 2019. Achieving the SDT and NPHS targets could lower population mean systolic 
blood pressure by 2.1 mmHg and 1.7 mmHg, respectively. Compared to normal 
routines, attaining the SDT and NPHS target by 2030 could prevent 59,220 (95% 
UI, 53,140-65,500) and 49,890 (44,377-55,569) incident CKD events, respectively, 
while postponing 568 (479-652) and 511 (426-590) CKD deaths, respectively. Over 
the lifetime, this generated 199,488 health-adjusted life years (HALYs) and AUD 
644 million in CKD healthcare savings for the SDT and 170,425 HALYs and AUD 514 
million for the NPHS. CKD due to hypertension and CKD due to other/unspecified 
causes were the principal contributors to the HALY gains. Lowering sodium 
consumption in Australia could deliver substantial CKD health and economic 
benefits.

DOI: 10.3390/nu15020318
PMCID: PMC9865653
PMID: 36678188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.


691. Nutrients. 2023 Jan 14;15(2):443. doi: 10.3390/nu15020443.

Nutritional Status Is Associated with Health-Related Quality of Life, Physical 
Activity, and Sleep Quality: A Cross-Sectional Study in an Elderly Greek 
Population.

Papadopoulou SK(1), Mantzorou M(2), Voulgaridou G(1), Pavlidou E(2), Vadikolias 
K(3), Antasouras G(2), Vorvolakos T(4), Psara E(2), Vasios GK(2), Serdari A(5), 
Poulios E(2), Giaginis C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences and Dietetics, School of Health Sciences, 
International Hellenic University, 57400 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, School of Environment, University 
of Aegean, 81400 Myrina, Lemnos, Greece.
(3)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, Democritus University of Thrace, 
68100 Alexadroupoli, Thrace, Greece.
(4)Department of Geriatric Psychiatry, School of Medicine, Democritus University 
of Thrace, 68100 Alexadroupoli, Thrace, Greece.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Child Psychiatry, School of Medicine, Democritus 
University of Thrace, 68100 Alexadroupoli, Thrace, Greece.

This study aims to explore the associations between nutritional status and 
health-related quality of life, physical activity, and sleep quality in older 
exclusively Caucasian adults from Greec who were free of any severe disease. 
This is a cross-sectional study. Mini Nutritional Assessment was used to assess 
nutritional status, health-related quality of life was assessed using the Short 
Form Healthy Survey questionnaire, sleep quality was assessed using the 
Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, and physical activity levels were assessed via 
the International Physical Activity Questionnaire. 3405 community-dwelling men 
and women, over 65 years old from14 different Greek regions were enrolled. 
Ten-point four percent (10.4%) of the participants were classified as 
malnourished, while 35.6% were "at risk of malnutrition". A better nutritional 
status was significantly and independently associated with higher physical 
activity levels (p = 0.0011) and better quality of life (p = 0.0135), as well as 
better sleep quality (p = 0.0202). In conclusion, our study highlights the 
interrelationships between a good nutritional status, a high-quality sleep, 
active lifestyle, and good quality of life. Further interventional studies are 
needed to clarify the associations, and test the feasibility of improving the 
nutritional status, physical activity levels and sleep quality of the elderly, 
and the impact of these changes on quality of life, and healthy ageing in races 
beyond Caucasian populations. Public health strategies and policies should be 
recommended to inform older adults for the necessity to improve their 
nutritional status and lifestyle habits to improve their health status and to 
obtain better life expectancy.

DOI: 10.3390/nu15020443
PMCID: PMC9862893
PMID: 36678316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


692. Polymers (Basel). 2023 Jan 4;15(2):251. doi: 10.3390/polym15020251.

A Review of the Release Profiles and Efficacies of Chemotherapy Drug-Loaded 
Electrospun Membranes.

Lin Z(1)(2), Chen H(1), Xu J(1), Wang J(1), Wang H(1), Huang S(1), Xu S(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Advanced Study, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Optoelectronic Devices and Systems of Ministry of Education 
and Guangdong Province, College of Physics and Optoelectronic Engineering, 
Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, China.

Electrospun fibrous membranes loaded with chemotherapy drugs have been broadly 
studied, many of which have had promising data demonstrating therapeutic effects 
on cancer cell inhibition, tumor size reduction, the life extension of 
tumor-bearing animals, and more. Nevertheless, their drug release profiles are 
difficult to predict since their degradation pattern varies with crystalline 
polymers. In addition, there is room for improving their release performances, 
optimizing the release patterns, and achieving better therapeutic outcomes. In 
this review, the key factors affecting electrospun membrane drug release 
profiles have been systematically reviewed. Case studies of the release profiles 
of typical chemotherapy drugs are carried out to determine the preferred polymer 
choices and techniques to achieve the expected prolonged or enhanced release 
profiles. The therapeutic effects of these electrospun, chemo-drug-loaded 
membranes are also discussed. This review aims to assist in the design of future 
drug-loaded electrospun materials to achieve preferred release profiles with 
enhanced therapeutic efficacies.

DOI: 10.3390/polym15020251
PMCID: PMC9865042
PMID: 36679132

Conflict of interest statement: Authors declare no conflict of interest.


693. Polymers (Basel). 2023 Jan 5;15(2):282. doi: 10.3390/polym15020282.

Development, Characterization, and Evaluation as Food Active Packaging of 
Low-Density-Polyethylene-Based Films Incorporated with Rich in Thymol Halloysite 
Nanohybrid for Fresh "Scaloppini" Type Pork Meat Fillets Preservation.

Giannakas AE(1), Salmas CE(2), Moschovas D(2), Karabagias VK(1), Karabagias 
IK(1), Baikousi M(2), Georgopoulos S(1), Leontiou A(1), Katerinopoulou K(1), 
Zafeiropoulos NE(2), Avgeropoulos A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, University of Patras, 30100 
Agrinio, Greece.
(2)Department of Material Science and Engineering, University of Ioannina, 45110 
Ioannina, Greece.

A new era is rising in food packaging and preservation, with a consequent focus 
on transition to "greener" and environmentally friendly techniques. The 
environmental problems that are emerging nowadays impose use of natural 
materials for food packaging applications, replacement of chemical preservatives 
with natural organic extractions, such as essential oils, and targeting of new 
achievements, such as further extension of food shelf-life. According to this 
new philosophy, most of the used materials for food packaging should be 
recyclable, natural or bio-based, and/or edible. The aim of this work was to 
investigate use and efficiency of a novel food packaging developed based on 
commercial LDPE polymer incorporated with natural material halloysite 
impregnated with natural extract of thyme oil. Moreover, a direct correlation 
between the stiff TBARS method and the easiest heme iron measurements method was 
scanned to test food lesions easier and faster. The result of this study was 
development of the LDPE/10TO@HNT film, which contains the optimum amount of a 
hybrid nanostructure and is capable to be used as an efficient active food 
packaging film. Furthermore, a linear correlation seems to connect the TBARS and 
heme iron measurements.

DOI: 10.3390/polym15020282
PMCID: PMC9861554
PMID: 36679162

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


694. Viruses. 2022 Dec 20;15(1):9. doi: 10.3390/v15010009.

Application of Lytic Bacteriophages and Their Enzymes to Reduce Saprophytic 
Bacteria Isolated from Minimally Processed Plant-Based Food Products-In Vitro 
Studies.

Shymialevich D(1), WÃ³jcicki M(2), Wardaszka A(2), Åwider O(3), SokoÅowska B(4), 
BÅaÅ¼ejak S(5).

Author information:
(1)Culture Collection of Industrial Microorganisms-Microbiological Resources 
Center, Department of Microbiology, Prof. Waclaw Dabrowski Institute of 
Agricultural and Food Biotechnology-State Research Institute, Rakowiecka 36 
Street, 02-532 Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Laboratory of Biotechnology and Molecular Engineering, Department of 
Microbiology, Prof. Waclaw Dabrowski Institute of Agricultural and Food 
Biotechnology-State Research Institute, Rakowiecka 36 Street, 02-532 Warsaw, 
Poland.
(3)Department of Food Safety and Chemical Analysis, Prof. Waclaw Dabrowski 
Institute of Agricultural and Food Biotechnology-State Research Institute, 
Rakowiecka 36 Street, 02-532 Warsaw, Poland.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Prof. Waclaw Dabrowski Institute of Agricultural 
and Food Biotechnology-State Research Institute, Rakowiecka 36 Street, 02-532 
Warsaw, Poland.
(5)Department of Biotechnology and Food Microbiology, Institute of Food 
Sciences, Warsaw University of Life Sciences (WULS-SGGW), Nowoursynowska 166 
Street, 02-776 Warsaw, Poland.

The aim of this study was to isolate phage enzymes and apply them in vitro for 
eradication of the dominant saprophytic bacteria isolated from minimally 
processed food. Four bacteriophages-two Enterobacter-specific and two 
Serratia-specific, which produce lytic enzymes-were used in this research. Two 
methods of phage enzyme isolation were tested, namely precipitation with acetone 
and ultracentrifugation. It was found that the number of virions could be 
increased almost 100 times due to the extension of the cultivation time (72 h). 
The amplification of phage particles and lytic proteins was dependent on the 
time of cultivation. Considering the influence of isolated enzymes on the growth 
kinetics of bacterial hosts, proteins isolated with acetone after 72-hour phage 
propagation exhibited the highest inhibitory effect. The reduction of bacteria 
count was dependent on the concentration of enzymes in the lysates. The obtained 
results indicate that phages and their lytic enzymes could be used in further 
research aiming at the improvement of microbiological quality and safety of 
minimally processed food products.

DOI: 10.3390/v15010009
PMCID: PMC9865725
PMID: 36680050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


695. Integr Cancer Ther. 2023 Jan-Dec;22:15347354221148710. doi: 
10.1177/15347354221148710.

Self-administered Meditation Application Intervention for Cancer Patients With 
Psychosocial Distress: A Pilot Study.

Lopez G(1), Chaoul A(1), Warneke CL(1), Christie AJ(1), Powers-James C(1), Liu 
W(1), Narayanan S(1), Delgado-Guay M(1), Li Y(1), Bruera E(1), Cohen L(1).

Author information:
(1)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer, Houston, TX, USA.

BACKGROUND: We explored the use of a novel smart phone-based application (APP) 
for delivery and monitoring of meditation to treat mood symptoms experienced by 
cancer patients.
METHODS: We assessed the feasibility of using a meditation delivery and tracking 
APP over 2-weeks and its impact on cancer patients' self-reported anxiety and 
depression. Outpatients reporting depression and/or anxiety were recruited and 
randomized to the APP or waitlist control group. Assessments included an 
expectancy scale, exit survey, mood rating before and after each meditation, and 
the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS-FS), Hospital Anxiety and Depression 
Scale (HADS), and Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) at baseline and after 
2-weeks. The primary aim was to assess feasibility; secondary aims included 
satisfaction with the APP, association between meditation frequency and length 
with self-reported symptoms, and change in symptom measures (symptoms, anxiety, 
depression, and sleep).
RESULTS: Our study included 35 participants (17 meditation group; 18 controls) 
who were primarily female (94%) with breast cancer (60%). The 61% enrollment 
rate and 71% adherence rate met pre-specified feasibility criteria. Most 
meditation group participants described the APP as "Useful" to "Very Useful" and 
would "Probably" or "Definitely" recommend its use. Mixed model analysis 
revealed a statistically significant association between meditation length (5, 
10, or 15âminutes) and change in anxiety, with 15-minute sessions associated 
with greater reductions in anxiety. In the exit survey, more meditation group 
vs. control group participants reported improved focus, mood, and sleep. Study 
groups differed significantly by ESAS fatigue score change; the meditation group 
decreased a median of 1.5 pts (IQR 2.5) and the control group increased a median 
of 0.5 points (IQR 2). The meditation group, but not the control group, 
experienced statistically significant improvement in ESAS fatigue, depression, 
anxiety, appetite, and physical, psychological, and global distress. Change in 
PSQI and HADS anxiety and depression scores did not reveal any statistically 
significant between-group differences.
CONCLUSIONS: This pilot study demonstrated the feasibility and acceptability of 
a meditation APP for cancer patients. Meditation APP users reported improvement 
in several measures of symptom distress. Future studies should explore ways to 
enhance the APP's usability and clinical benefit.

DOI: 10.1177/15347354221148710
PMCID: PMC9893056
PMID: 36680352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared the following potential 
conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or 
publication of this article: Lorenzo Cohen is the co-author of the book 
Anticancer Living: Transform Your Life and Health with the Mix of Six for which 
he receives royalties. Other authors declare no conflicts of interest.


696. Water Res. 2023 Mar 1;231:119627. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2023.119627. Epub
2023  Jan 17.

Width of vegetated buffer strips to protect aquatic life from pesticide effects.

Vormeier P(1), Liebmann L(2), Weisner O(3), Liess M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of System-Ecotoxicology, UFZ, Helmholtz Centre for Environmental 
Research, Permoserstrasse 15, Leipzig 04318, Germany; RWTH Aachen University, 
Institute of Ecology & Computational Life Science, Templergraben 55, Aachen 
52056, Germany.
(2)Department of System-Ecotoxicology, UFZ, Helmholtz Centre for Environmental 
Research, Permoserstrasse 15, Leipzig 04318, Germany; Diversity and Evolution, 
Faculty of Biological Sciences, Department of Evolutionary Ecology & 
Environmental Toxicology (E3T), Goethe University Frankfurt, Institute of 
Ecology, Frankfurt am Main 60438, Germany.
(3)Department of System-Ecotoxicology, UFZ, Helmholtz Centre for Environmental 
Research, Permoserstrasse 15, Leipzig 04318, Germany.
(4)Department of System-Ecotoxicology, UFZ, Helmholtz Centre for Environmental 
Research, Permoserstrasse 15, Leipzig 04318, Germany; RWTH Aachen University, 
Institute of Ecology & Computational Life Science, Templergraben 55, Aachen 
52056, Germany. Electronic address: matthias.liess@ufz.de.

Vegetated buffer strips (VBS) are an effective measure to retain pesticide 
inputs during rain events. Numerous studies have examined the retention effects 
of VBS on pesticides. However, no study has addressed on a large scale with 
event-related peak concentrations how wide the VBS should be to avoid ecological 
impacts on aquatic life. Here, we investigated for 115 lowland stream sections 
in Germany the relevance of environmental and physico-chemical parameters to 
determine the in-stream pesticide concentration and their ecological risks. 
Based on peak concentrations related to rain events with precipitation amount 
resulting in VBS relevant surface runoff for 30 of the 115 investigated stream 
sections (25 to 70Â mm/d), we demonstrated that the average width of VBS was the 
main parameter (RÂ²Â =Â 0.38) reducing the pesticide input ratio, indicating a 
relevant proportion of surface runoff contributing to the total in-stream 
pesticide concentrations. Additionally, dry ditches within agricultural fields 
increased pesticide input (RÂ²Â =Â 0.31). Generally, substances classified as 
slightly mobile were better retained by VBS than mobile substances. Other 
factors including slope, land use and vegetation cover of VBS had only a minor 
influence. We assessed the ecological risk of in-stream pesticide concentrations 
by quantifying exceedances of regulatory- (RAC) and field-validated acceptable 
concentrations (ACfield). We then translated this ecological risk into 
protective VBS width by calculating the quotient of in-stream concentration and 
threshold (RQ). We estimate that a VBS width of 18Â m is sufficient to meet the 
RQACfield protection goal for 95% of streams. The presence of dry ditches 
