significant amounts of the biologically relevant forms of the actives to various 
tissues. This review is aimed at providing a first critical evaluation of the 
current published literature with the novel curcumagalactomannoside (CGM) 
formulation of curcumin using fenugreek galactomannan dietary fibre, 
specifically designed to address curcumin poor pharmacokinetics. We describe CGM 
and its technology as a food-grade formulation to deliver 'free' unconjugated 
curcuminoids with enhanced bioavailability and improved pharmacokinetic 
properties. The therapeutic relevance of improving bioavailability of 'free' 
curcuminoids and some of the technical challenges in the measurement of the 
'free' form of curcuminoids in plasma and tissues are also discussed. A total of 
twenty-six manuscripts are reviewed here, including fourteen pre-clinical and 
twelve clinical studies that have investigated CGM pharmacokinetics, safety and 
efficacy in various animal models and human conditions. Overall current 
scientific evidence suggests CGM formulation has improved bioavailability and 
tissue distribution of the biologically relevant unconjugated forms of turmeric 
actives called 'free' curcuminoids that may be responsible for the superior 
clinical outcomes reported with CGM treatments in comparison with unformulated 
standard curcumin across multiple studies.

DOI: 10.1017/S0954422423000033
PMID: 36655498


638. J Comp Eff Res. 2023 Feb;12(2):e220089. doi: 10.2217/cer-2022-0089. Epub
2023  Jan 19.

Cost-effectiveness of overactive bladder treatments from a US commercial 
and payer perspective.

Murray B(1), Miles-Thomas J(2), Park AJ(3), Nguyen VB(4), Tung A(5), Gillard 
P(5), Lalla A(5), Nitti VW(6), Chermansky CJ(7).

Author information:
(1)Capital Region Urological Surgeons, 319 S Manning Blvd #106, Albany, NY 
12208, USA.
(2)Eastern Virginia Medical School, 225 Clearfield Ave, Virginia Beach, VA 
23462, USA.
(3)Cleveland Clinic, 9500 Euclid Ave, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.
(4)Curta, Inc., 4872 Beach Dr SW, Seattle, WA 98116, USA.
(5)Allergan, an AbbVie company, 2525 Dupont Drive, Irvine, CA 92612, USA.
(6)David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, 300 Stein Plaza Driveway, Los 
Angeles, CA 90095, USA.
(7)University of Pittsburgh Medical Center Magee Womens Hospital, 300 Halket St, 
Suite 2541, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.

Aim: The cost-effectiveness of treatment options (anticholinergics, 
β3-adrenoceptor agonists, onabotulinumtoxinA, sacral nerve stimulation and 
percutaneous tibial stimulation [the latter two including new rechargeable 
neurostimulators]) for the management of overactive bladder (OAB) were compared 
with best supportive care (BSC) using a previously published Markov model. 
Materials & methods: Cost-effectiveness was evaluated over a 15-year time 
horizon, and sensitivity analyses were performed using 2- and 5-year horizons. 
Discontinuation rates, resource utilization, and costs were derived from 
published sources. Results: Using Medicare and commercial costs over a 15-year 
time period, onabotulinumtoxinA 100U had incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) gained of $39,591/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) and $42,255/QALY, 
respectively, versus BSC, which were the lowest ICERs of all assessed 
treatments. The sensitivity analyses at 2- and 5-year horizons also showed 
onabotulinumtoxinA to be the most cost-effective of all assessed treatments 
versus BSC. Conclusion: OnabotulinumtoxinA 100U is currently the most 
cost-effective treatment for OAB.

DOI: 10.2217/cer-2022-0089
PMCID: PMC10288955
PMID: 36655745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no other relevant affiliations 
or financial involvement with any organization or entity with a financial 
interest in or financial conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed 
in the manuscript apart from those disclosed.


639. J Assoc Nurses AIDS Care. 2023 Jan-Feb 01;34(1):83-95. doi: 
10.1097/JNC.0000000000000376. Epub 2022 Dec 12.

Intersectionality of Socioecological Factors Associated With Cognitive Function 
Among Older Women With HIV in the United States: A Structural Equation Model 
Analysis Using Data From the Women's Interagency HIV Study.

Njie-Carr VPS(1), Zhu S, Stafford KA, Tong W, Plankey M, Sharma A, Milam J, 
Cohen M, Diaz MM, Rubtsova AA, Fischl MA, Konkle-Parker D, Gustafson D, Rubin 
LH.

Author information:
(1)Veronica P.S. Njie-Carr, RN, ACNS-BC, PhD, is an Associate Professor, School 
of Nursing, University of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. Shijun Zhu, PhD, 
DrE, is an Associate Professor and Statistician, School of Nursing, University 
of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. Kristen A. Stafford, MPH, PhD, is an 
Associate Professor and Infectious Disease Epidemiologist, School of Medicine, 
University of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. Weiqun Tong, MS, is a 
Biostatistician, Department of Epidemiology, Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. Michael Plankey, PhD, is a 
Professor, Division of Infectious Diseases, School of Medicine, Georgetown 
University, Washington, District of Columbia, USA. Anjali Sharma, MD, MS, is an 
Associate Professor, Department of Medicine, College of Medicine, Albert 
Einstein University Bronx, New York, USA. Joel Milam, PhD, is a Professor and 
Epidemiologist, Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Program in Public 
Health, Susan & Henry Samueli College of Health Sciences, University of 
California Irvine, Irvine, California, USA. Mardge Cohen, MD, is a Medical 
Director in the WE-ACTx, Boston Health Care for the Homeless Program, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA. Monica M. Diaz, MD, MS, is an Assistant Professor, Department of 
Neurology, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA. Anna A. Rubtsova, MSc, PhD, is a Research 
Assistant Professor, Department of Behavioral, Social, and Health Education 
Sciences, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, 
USA. Margaret A. Fischl, MD, is a Professor, School of Medicine, University of 
Miami Health Systems, Miami, Florida, USA. Deborah Konkle-Parker, PhD, FNP, 
FAAN, is a Professor, Schools of Nursing, Medicine, and Population Health 
Sciences, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, Mississippi, USA. 
Deborah Gustafson, MS, PhD, is a Professor, Department of Neurology, SUNY 
Downstate Health Sciences University, Brooklyn, New York, USA. Leah H. Rubin, 
MPH, PhD, is an Associate Professor, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Increased life expectancy of people with HIV has health implications including 
the intersection of the long-term use of antiretroviral treatment, inflammatory 
events, and age-related immunosenescence. In a cross-sectional study utilizing 
using the Socio-Eecological Model, we identified pathways of cognitive function 
(CF) among 448 women with HIV, 50 years and older. A structural equation model 
showed the direct effects of mood (β = -0.25, p < .01), comorbidities (β = 
--0.13, p < .05), race (β = --0.13, p < .05), and abuse (β = 0.27, p < .001) on 
the latent variable CF. Substance and alcohol use, depressive symptoms, 
cigarette smoking, and the number of comorbidities are important considerations 
when designing interventions utilizing using a multi-level and intersectional 
lens to maximize positive CF outcomes.

Copyright © 2022 Association of Nurses in AIDS Care.

DOI: 10.1097/JNC.0000000000000376
PMCID: PMC10079306
PMID: 36656093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures The authors report no real or 
perceived vested interests related to this article that could be construed as a 
conflict of interest. As with all JANAC feature manuscripts, this article was 
reviewed by two impartial reviewers in a double-blind review process. JANAC’s 
editor-in-chief handled the review process for the paper, and the Editorial 
Board Member, Veronica Njie-Carr, had no access to the paper in her role as an 
editorial board member or reviewer.


640. Demography. 2023 Feb 1;60(1):303-325. doi: 10.1215/00703370-10422945.

District-Level Mortality Convergence in Reunified Germany: Long-Term Trends and 
Contextual Determinants.

Hrzic R(1)(2), Vogt T(3)(4), Brand H(1)(5), Janssen F(6)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, Care and Public Health Research Institute 
- CAPHRI, Maastricht University, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(2)International Max Planck Research School for Population, Health and Data 
Science, Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany.
(3)Faculty of Spatial Sciences, Population Research Centre, University of 
Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(4)Prasanna School of Public Health, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Manipal, India; Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany.
(5)Prasanna School of Public Health, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Manipal, India.
(6)Netherlands Interdisciplinary Demographic Institute - KNAW / University of 
Groningen, the Hague, the Netherlands.

The mortality gap between former East and West Germany decreased rapidly in the 
decade following the reunification of the country in 1990. However, because no 
previous study has estimated life expectancy (e0) over time for all German 
districts, the extent of mortality convergence across districts and its 
determinants are largely unknown. We used a novel relational Bayesian model to 
estimate district e0 in Germany during 1997-2016, examined mortality convergence 
using a novel convergence groups approach, and explored the role of selected 
district characteristics in the process. Differences in e0 between German 
districts decreased for both sexes during 1997-2016, mainly driven by rapid 
mortality improvements in eastern German districts. However, considerable 
heterogeneity in district-level e0 trajectories within federal states was 
evident. For example, district clusters in northwestern Germany showed 
increasing e0 disadvantage, which led to a north-south divergence in mortality. 
A multinomial regression analysis showed a robust association between the e0 
trajectory and the district-level tax base and long-term unemployment but not 
with hospital density. Thus, an equitable "leveling up" of health seems possible 
with policies investing in places and the people who inhabit them.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1215/00703370-10422945
PMID: 36656287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Food Environ Virol. 2023 Mar;15(1):43-50. doi: 10.1007/s12560-022-09547-8.
Epub  2023 Jan 19.

Temperature Dependent Depuration of Norovirus GII and Tulane Virus from Oysters 
(Crassostrea gigas).

Stoppel SM(1), Duinker A(2), Khatri M(3), Lunestad BT(2), Myrmel M(3).

Author information:
(1)Section for Seafood Hazards, Institute of Marine Research, Bergen, Norway. 
Sarah.Stoppel@hi.no.
(2)Section for Seafood Hazards, Institute of Marine Research, Bergen, Norway.
(3)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Norwegian University of Life Sciences, Ås, 
Norway.

Raw oysters are considered a culinary delicacy but are frequently the culprit in 
food-borne norovirus (NoV) infections. As commercial depuration procedures are 
currently unable to efficiently eliminate NoV from oysters, an optimisation of 
the process should be considered. This study addresses the ability of elevated 
water temperatures to enhance the elimination of NoV and Tulane virus (TuV) from 
Pacific oysters (Crassostrea gigas). Both viruses were experimentally 
bioaccumulated in oysters, which were thereafter depurated at 12 °C and 17 °C 
for 4 weeks. Infectious TuV and viral RNA were monitored weekly for 28 days by 
TCID50 and (PMAxx-) RT-qPCR, respectively. TuV RNA was more persistent than NoV 
and decreased by < 0.5 log10 after 14 days, while NoV reductions were 
already > 1.0 log10 at this time. For RT-qPCR there was no detectable benefit of 
elevated water temperatures or PMAxx for either virus (p > 0.05). TuV TCID50 
decreased steadily, and reductions were significantly different between the two 
temperatures (p < 0.001). This was most evident on days 14 and 21 when 
reductions at 17 °C were 1.3-1.7 log10 higher than at 12 °C. After 3 weeks, 
reductions > 3.0 log10 were observed at 17 °C, while at 12 °C reductions did not 
exceed 1.9 log10. The length of depuration also had an influence on virus 
numbers. TuV reductions increased from < 1.0 log10 after seven days to > 4.0 
log10 after 4 weeks. This implies that an extension of the depuration period to 
more than seven days, possibly in combination with elevated water temperatures, 
may be beneficial for the inactivation and removal of viral pathogens.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12560-022-09547-8
PMCID: PMC10006268
PMID: 36656416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper.


642. Hist Philos Life Sci. 2023 Jan 19;45(1):3. doi: 10.1007/s40656-023-00557-8.

Editorial introduction: Biomedicine and life sciences as a challenge to human 
temporality.

Rimon-Zarfaty N(1)(2), Schweda M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Ethics and History of Medicine, University Medical 
Center Göttingen, Göttingen, Lower Saxony, Germany. nitzanr@mail.sapir.ac.il.
(2)Department of Human Resource Management Studies, Sapir Academic College, Hof 
Ashkelon, Israel. nitzanr@mail.sapir.ac.il.
(3)Division of Medical Ethics, Department of Health Services Research, School 
for Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Oldenburg, Oldenburg, Germany.

Erratum in
    Hist Philos Life Sci. 2023 Feb 28;45(1):5.

Bringing together scholars from philosophy, bioethics, law, sociology, and 
anthropology, this topical collection explores how innovations in the field of 
biomedicine and the life sciences are challenging and transforming traditional 
understandings of human temporality and of the temporal duration, extension and 
structure of human life. The contributions aim to expand the theoretical debate 
by highlighting the significance of time and human temporality in different 
discourses and practical contexts, and developing concrete, empirically 
informed, and culturally sensitive perspectives. The collection is structured 
around three main foci: the beginning of life, the middle of life, and later 
life. This structure facilitates an in-depth examination of specific 
technological and biographical contexts and at the same time allows an 
overarching comparison of relevant similarities and differences between life 
phases and fields of application.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40656-023-00557-8
PMCID: PMC9852181
PMID: 36656442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no competing 
interests.


643. Neotrop Entomol. 2023 Apr;52(2):204-211. doi: 10.1007/s13744-022-01020-2.
Epub  2023 Jan 19.

Biology, Thermal Requirements, and Fertility Life Table of Strains of 
Trichogramma foersteri (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae) in Palpita 
forficifera (Lepidoptera: Crambidae).

Villalba GA(1), Scheunemann T(1), Krüger AP(1), Corrêa LM(2), Bernardi D(1), 
Nava DE(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Fitossanidade, Faculdade de Agronomia Eliseu 
Maciel, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(2)Faculdade de Agronomia Eliseu Maciel, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, 
Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(3)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Fitossanidade, Faculdade de Agronomia Eliseu 
Maciel, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. 
dori.edson-nava@embrapa.br.
(4)Embrapa Clima Temperado, Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. 
dori.edson-nava@embrapa.br.

Trichogramma foersteri Takahashi is a parasitoid recently identified in eggs of 
Palpita forficifera Munroe, considered the main pest of the olive tree in 
Brazil. The efficiency of a parasitoid is conditioned to several factors such as 
the temperature. The objective was to study the biology of the immature and 
adult phases at different constant temperatures (10, 15, 20, 25, and 30 °C), 
determine thermal requirements, and to elaborate a fertility life table for five 
strains (R1, R2, R3, R4, and R5) to T. foersteri. At 10 °C, there was no 
development of T. foersteri. The duration of the egg-adult period (days) was 
inversely related to temperature, ranging from 32 to 34 days (at 15 °C) to 6.5 
to 7.5 days (at 30 °C). The thermal range evaluated did not influence parasitism 
(parasitism > 57%) and the sex ratio (sr > 0.74). The base temperature (Tt) was 
similar for all strains (approximately 12 °C), corresponding to a thermal 
constant (K) of 120.48 to 145.13 degree days. For the adult stage, T. foersteri 
had the highest rate of parasitism (> 48%) to 15 °C. The emergence rate ranged 
from 75 to 100%. The thermal range did not influence the sex ratio of the lines 
(sr > 0.70), but reduced the longevity from 50 days (at 15 °C) to 6 days (at 
30 °C). Regarding the fertility life table, all strains of T. foersteri showed 
biological potential of development and growth in eggs of P. forficifera in the 
thermal range of 15 to 30 °C, important information for the establishment of 
biological control programs.

© 2023. Sociedade Entomológica do Brasil.

DOI: 10.1007/s13744-022-01020-2
PMID: 36656490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Pharmacoeconomics. 2023 Mar;41(3):321-327. doi: 10.1007/s40273-022-01230-x.
Epub  2023 Jan 19.

Incorporating Dynamic Pricing in Cost-Effectiveness Analysis: Are Known Unknowns 
Valuable?

McQueen RB(1), Anderson KE(2), Levy JF(3), Carlson JJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Colorado 
Anschutz Medical Campus, Mail Stop C238, 12850 E. Montview Blvd., Aurora, CO, 
USA. robert.mcqueen@cuanschutz.edu.
(2)Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Colorado 
Anschutz Medical Campus, Mail Stop C238, 12850 E. Montview Blvd., Aurora, CO, 
USA.
(3)Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(4)CHOICE Institute, University of Washington School of Pharmacy, Seattle, WA, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Current practice in health technology assessment (HTA) of 
pharmaceuticals conducts cost-effectiveness analyses (CEAs) based on a static 
price or the estimated price at market launch. Recent publications suggest 
incorporating dynamic pricing. To test the feasibility and importance of 
including dynamic pricing, we compared the standard static approach to four 
dynamic scenarios by replicating US-based HTA evaluations with dynamic pricing 
inputs.
METHODS: The four case examples included omalizumab (Xolair®) for the treatment 
of allergic asthma, elagolix (Orilissa®) for the treatment of endometriosis, 
ocrelizumab (Ocrevus®) for the treatment of primary progressive multiple 
sclerosis (PPMS), and dupilumab (Dupixent®) for the treatment of atopic 
dermatitis (AD). The primary outcome was the relative percentage change in 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) for two dynamic pricing scenarios versus static pricing. Secondary 
outcomes included the absolute difference in ICERs versus base-case and an 
assessment of decision uncertainty.
RESULTS: Base-case ICERs were $327,000, $102,000, $700,000, and $102,000 for 
allergic asthma, endometriosis, PPMS, and AD, respectively. Across scenarios and 
case examples, the range of ICERs versus base-case varied from decreases of 56% 
to increases of 232%. The absolute difference in ICERs versus base-case ranged 
from decreases of $120,000 to increases of $758,000. Conclusions on cost 
effectiveness were altered in 2/16 scenarios across the four case examples.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the decision context that US payers face, with prices varying 
over time, findings suggest further research to reduce uncertainty around price 
trajectories, as well as conducting or updating multiple assessments over the 
lifecycle of pharmaceutical products.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-022-01230-x
PMID: 36656509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Chemosphere. 2023 Mar;317:137881. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2023.137881.
Epub  2023 Jan 16.

Recycling nitrogen from liquid digestate via novel reactive struvite and zeolite 
minerals to mitigate agricultural pollution.

Galamini G(1), Ferretti G(2), Rosinger C(3), Huber S(4), Medoro V(1), Mentler 
A(5), Díaz-Pinés E(5), Gorfer M(6), Faccini B(1), Keiblinger KM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics and Earth Science, University of Ferrara (UNIFE), Via 
Saragat 1, 44122, Ferrara, Italy.
(2)Department of Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Agricultural Sciences, University 
of Ferrara (UNIFE), Via Luigi Borsari 46, 44121, Ferrara, Italy. Electronic 
address: giacomo.ferretti@unife.it.
(3)Department of Forest and Soil Sciences, Institute of Soil Research, 
University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Vienna (BOKU), Peter Jordan 
Strasse 82, 1190, Vienna, Austria; Department of Crop Sciences, Institute of 
Agronomy, University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Vienna (BOKU), 
Konrad Lorenz-Straße 24, 3430, Tulln an der Donau, Austria.
(4)Department of Crop Sciences, Institute of Agronomy, University of Natural 
Resources and Life Sciences Vienna (BOKU), Konrad Lorenz-Straße 24, 3430, Tulln 
an der Donau, Austria.
(5)Department of Forest and Soil Sciences, Institute of Soil Research, 
University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Vienna (BOKU), Peter Jordan 
Strasse 82, 1190, Vienna, Austria.
(6)Center for Health & Bioresources, Austrian Institute of Technology (AIT), 
Konrad-Lorenz-Straße 24, Tulln, Austria.

Recycling nutrients is of paramount importance. For this reason, struvite and 
nitrogen enriched zeolite fertilizers produced from wastewater treatments are 
receiving growing attention in European markets. However, their effects on 
agricultural soils are far from certain, especially struvite, which only 
recently was implemented in EU Fertilizing Product Regulations. In this paper, 
we investigate the effects of these materials in acid sandy arable soil, 
particularly focusing on N dynamics, evaluating potential losses, transformation 
pathways, and the effects of struvite and zeolitic tuffs on main soil 
biogeochemical parameters, in comparison to traditional fertilization with 
digestate. Liming effect (pH alkalinization) was observed in all treatments with 
varying intensities, affecting most of the soil processes. The struvite was 
quickly solubilized due to soil acidity, and the release of nutrients stimulated 
nitrifying and denitrifying microorganisms. Zeolitic tuff amendments decreased 
the NOx gas emissions, which are precursors to the powerful climate altering N2O 
gas, and the N enriched chabazite tuff also recorded smaller NH3 emissions 
compared to the digestate. However, a high dosage of zeolites in soil increased 
NH3 emissions after fertilization, due to pronounced pH shifts. Contrasting 
effects were observed between the two zeolitic tuffs when applied as soil 
amendments; while the chabazite tuff had a strong positive effect - increasing 
up to ∼90% the soil microbial N immobilization - the employed clinoptilolite 
tuff had immediate negative effects on the microbial biomass, likely due to the 
large quantities of sulphur released. However, when applied at lower dosages, 
the N enriched clinoptilolite also contributed to the increase of microbial N. 
From these outcomes, we confirm the potential of struvite and zeolites to 
mitigate the outfluxes of nutrients from agricultural systems. To gain the best 
results and significantly lower environmental impacts, extension practitioners 
could give recommendations based on the soils that are planned for zeolite 
application.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2023.137881
PMID: 36657582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


646. BMC Cancer. 2023 Jan 19;23(1):65. doi: 10.1186/s12885-022-10458-x.

Patient perspectives on considerations, tradeoffs, and experiences with multiple 
myeloma treatment selection: a qualitative descriptive study.

Dombeck C(1), Swezey T(1), Gonzalez Sepulveda JM(1)(2)(3), Reeve BB(1)(3)(4), 
LeBlanc TW(1)(2)(4), Chandler D(5), Corneli A(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health Sciences, Duke University School of Medicine, 
215 Morris Street, Durham, NC, 27701, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC, USA.
(3)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University School of Medicine, NC, 
Durham, USA.
(4)Duke Cancer Institute, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC, USA.
(5)Amgen, Inc, Thousand Oaks, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Population Health Sciences, Duke University School of Medicine, 
215 Morris Street, Durham, NC, 27701, USA. amy.corneli@duke.edu.
(7)Department of Medicine, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC, USA. 
amy.corneli@duke.edu.
(8)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University School of Medicine, NC, 
Durham, USA. amy.corneli@duke.edu.

BACKGROUND: Advances in multiple myeloma treatment and a proliferation of 
treatment options have resulted in improved survival rates and periods of 
symptom-free remission for many multiple myeloma patients. As a result, 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL) concerns related to myeloma treatments 
have become increasingly salient for this patient population and represent an 
important consideration guiding patients' treatment choices. To gain an 
understanding of patients' experiences with choosing myeloma therapies and 
explore the HRQoL concerns that are most important to them, we interviewed a 
diverse sample of US-based multiple myeloma patients about their treatment 
considerations.
METHODS: We conducted a qualitative descriptive study using in-depth interviews. 
Participants reflected on (1) the factors that were most important to them when 
thinking about multiple myeloma treatment and how these have changed over time, 
(2) how they might weigh the importance of treatment efficacy vs. side effects, 
(3) trade-offs they would be willing to make regarding efficacy vs. HRQoL, and 
(4) treatment changes they had experienced. Interviews were audio-recorded and 
transcribed, and narratives were analyzed using applied thematic analysis.
RESULTS: We interviewed 21 patients, heterogeneous in their disease trajectory 
and treatment experience. Participants were 36 to 78 years, 52% female, and 38% 
Black. Efficacy was named as the most important treatment consideration by 
almost two-thirds of participants, and over half also valued HRQoL aspects such 
as the ability to maintain daily functioning and enjoyment of life. Participants 
expressed concern about potential treatment side effects and preferred more 
convenient treatment options. Although participants stated largely trusting 
their clinicians' treatment recommendations, many said they would stop a 
clinician-recommended treatment if it negatively impacted their HRQoL. 
Participants also said that while they prioritized treatment efficacy, they 
would be willing to change to a less efficacious treatment if side effects 
became intolerable.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings link to other reports reflecting considerations that 
are important to multiple myeloma patients, including the importance placed on 
increasing life expectancy and progression-free survival, but also the tension 
between treatment efficacy and quality of life. Our results extend these 
findings to a racially diverse US-based patient population at different stages 
in the disease trajectory.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-022-10458-x
PMCID: PMC9850680
PMID: 36658490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: TWL reports honoraria for consulting and 
speaking engagements within the past 24 months from AbbVie, Agios/Servier, 
Astellas, and BMS/Celgene, as well as honoraria for consulting or advisory board 
engagements from BlueNote, Flatiron, Genentech, GSK, and Pfizer, as well as 
research funding from AstraZeneca, BMS, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, and Seattle 
Genetics, and royalties from UpToDate. D. Chandler was an employee of Amgen 
during this study. The other authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


647. BMC Psychiatry. 2023 Jan 19;23(1):51. doi: 10.1186/s12888-023-04535-z.

The effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy as 
a transdiagnostic intervention for transitional-age youth: study protocol of a 
randomized controlled trial.

Keulen J(1), Matthijssen D(2), Schraven J(2), Deković M(3), Bodden D(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Child & Family Studies, Utrecht University, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands. j.keulen@uu.nl.
(2)Altrecht Child and Youth Psychiatry, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Clinical Child & Family Studies, Utrecht University, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Although the prevalence of psychological problems in 
transitional-age youth (i.e., youth aged 15 to 25; TAY) is high, TAY are much 
less likely to receive age-appropriate treatments for their psychological 
problems compared to younger adolescents or older adults. Hence, effective 
interventions for TAY seem warranted. ACT your way is a transdiagnostic 
treatment, specifically developed for TAY, based on the principles of Acceptance 
and Commitment Therapy (ACT). ACT your way is not directed primarily at symptom 
reduction, but mainly aims to change the underlying mechanism of 
psychopathology, namely increasing TAY's psychological flexibility. 
Meta-analyses show that ACT is an effective treatment for adults with diverse 
types of psychopathology. Less is known about the effectiveness of ACT for TAY. 
Therefore, the goal of this study is to examine the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of ACT your way. In addition, we will investigate for whom 
and under what circumstances (i.e., moderators) and how (i.e., mediators) the 
intervention is (most) effective.
METHOD: The study is designed as a multi-centre, randomized controlled trial. In 
total, 140 TAY diagnosed with any psychological disorder will be randomly 
assigned to either the ACT your way or treatment as usual (TAU) condition. In 
total, six assessments will be conducted: at baseline, after 3, 6 and 9 
sessions, at post-intervention and at 6-month follow-up, using multiple 
informants (TAY, parents/caregivers, therapists). Assessments will include 
diagnostic interviews and questionnaires. The primary outcomes are psychological 
flexibility and number of DSM-5 diagnoses; the secondary outcomes are the 
presence of the primary DSM-5 diagnosis, psychopathology, personality problems, 
global, individual and societal functioning, quality of life, stress, treatment 
satisfaction, treatment drop-out and therapeutic alliance. We will also assess 
costs and various moderators (i.e., demographic characteristics, type and 
severity of problems, psychopathology of parents/caregivers, treatment 
expectancy and previous treatments) and mediators (i.e., psychological 
flexibility, emotion regulation, self-compassion, autonomy, perfectionism, 
self-esteem and group cohesion).
DISCUSSION: To our knowledge, this is the first study investigating the 
(cost-)effectiveness of ACT compared to TAU in clinically referred TAY with 
various types of psychopathology, using a rigorous design.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The research project is registered in the Dutch Trial 
Register (Trial NL9642).

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-023-04535-z
PMCID: PMC9850708
PMID: 36658510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Denise Matthijssen and Denise Bodden are authors 
of the ACT your way workbook and therapist guide. There are no further competing 
interest for remaining authors to declare.


648. J Orthop Surg Res. 2023 Jan 20;18(1):57. doi: 10.1186/s13018-023-03537-7.

Biomechanical effects of hybrid constructions in the treatment of noncontinuous 
cervical spondylopathy: a finite element analysis.

Sun X(1)(2)(3), Zhang Q(4)(5), Cao L(4)(5), Wang J(4)(5), Huang J(4)(5), Liu 
Y(6), Zhang Y(7), Song Z(8)(9), Tang W(10), Chen Y(10), Sun S(11), Lu S(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Xuanwu Hospital Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, 100053, China. sun.xiang.yao@163.com.
(2)National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Diseases, Beijing, 100053, 
China. sun.xiang.yao@163.com.
(3)Beijing Glitzern Technology Co., Ltd, Beijing, 100077, China. 
sun.xiang.yao@163.com.
(4)Department of Orthopaedics, Xuanwu Hospital Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, 100053, China.
(5)National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Diseases, Beijing, 100053, 
China.
(6)Department of Emergency, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, 100053, China.
(7)Department of Orthopaedics, The Seventh Medical Center of PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing, 100191, China.
(8)Nankai University School of Medicine, Nankai University, Tianjin, 300071, 
China.
(9)Department of Orthopaedics, The PLA General Hospital, Beijing, 100000, China.
(10)Beijing Glitzern Technology Co., Ltd, Beijing, 100077, China.
(11)Department of Interdisciplinary, Life Science, Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, IN, 47907, USA.
(12)Department of Orthopaedics, Xuanwu Hospital Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, 100053, China. 15624967325@163.com.
(13)National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Diseases, Beijing, 100053, 
China. 15624967325@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Hybrid construction (HC) may be an ideal surgical strategy than 
noncontinuous total disc replacement (TDR) and noncontinuous anterior cervical 
discectomy and fusion (ACDF) in the treatment of noncontinuous cervical 
spondylopathy. However, there is still no consensus on the segmental selection 
for ACDF or TDR in HC. The study aims to analyse the effects of different 
segment selection of TDR and ACDF on cervical biomechanical characteristics 
after HC surgery.
METHODS: Twelve FEMs of C2-C7 were constructed based on CT images of 12 mild 
cervical spondylopathy volunteers. Two kinds of HC were introduced in our study: 
Fusion-arthroplasty group (Group 1), upper-level (C3/4) ACDF, and lower-level 
TDR (C5/6); Arthroplasty-fusion group (Group 2), upper-level (C3/4) TDR and 
lower-level ACDF (C5/6). The follow-load technique was simulated by applying an 
axial initial load of 73.6 N through the motion centre of FEM. A bending moment 
of 1.0 Nm was applied to the centre of C2 in all FEMs. Statistical analysis was 
carried out by SPSS 26.0. The significance threshold was 5% (P < 0.05).
RESULTS: In the comparison of ROMs between Group 1 and Group 2, the ROM in 
extension (P = 0.016), and lateral bending (P = 0.038) of C4/5 were 
significantly higher in Group 1 group. The average intervertebral disc pressures 
at C2/3 in all directions were significantly higher in Group 1 than those in 
Group 2 (P < 0.005). The average contact forces in facet joints of C2/3 
(P = 0.007) were significantly more than that in Group 2; however, the average 
contact forces in facet joints of C6/7 (P < 0.001) in Group 1 group were 
significantly less than that in Group 2.
CONCLUSIONS: Arthroplasty-fusion is preferred for intervertebral disc 
degeneration in adjacent upper segments. Fusion-arthroplasty is preferred for 
patients with lower intervertebral disc degeneration or lower posterior column 
degeneration.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This research was registered in Chinese Clinical Trial 
Registry (ChiCTR1900020513).

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13018-023-03537-7
PMCID: PMC9854215
PMID: 36658557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


649. J Nanobiotechnology. 2023 Jan 19;21(1):19. doi: 10.1186/s12951-022-01750-w.

Tenofovir-tethered gold nanoparticles as a novel multifunctional long-acting 
anti-HIV therapy to overcome deficient drug delivery-: an in vivo proof of 
concept.

Fotooh Abadi L(1), Kumar P(2), Paknikar K(3)(4), Gajbhiye V(5), Kulkarni S(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Virology, Indian Council of Medical Research-National AIDS 
Research Institute, Pune, 411 026, India.
(2)Nanobioscience Group, Agharkar Research Institute, Pune, 411 004, India.
(3)Nanobioscience Group, Agharkar Research Institute, Pune, 411 004, India. 
kpaknikar@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology, Mumbai, 400 076, 
India. kpaknikar@gmail.com.
(5)Nanobioscience Group, Agharkar Research Institute, Pune, 411 004, India. 
virendragajbhiye@aripune.org.
(6)Division of Virology, Indian Council of Medical Research-National AIDS 
Research Institute, Pune, 411 026, India. skulkarni@nariindia.org.

BACKGROUND: The adoption of Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) substantially extends 
the life expectancy and quality of HIV-infected patients. Yet, eliminating the 
latent reservoirs of HIV to achieve a cure remains an unmet need. The advent of 
nanomedicine has revolutionized the treatment of HIV/AIDS. The present study 
explores a unique combination of Tenofovir (TNF) with gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) 
as a potential therapeutic approach to overcome several limitations of the 
current ART.
RESULTS: TNF-tethered AuNPs were successfully synthesized. Cell viability, 
genotoxicity, haemolysis, and histopathological studies confirmed the complete 
safety of the preparation. Most importantly, its anti-HIV1 reverse transcriptase 
activity was ~ 15 folds higher than the native TNF. In addition, it exhibited 
potent anti-HIV1 protease activity, a much sought-after target in anti-HIV1 
therapeutics. Finally, the in vivo biodistribution studies validated that the 
AuNPs could reach many tissues/organs, serving as a secure nest for HIV and 
overcoming the problem of deficient drug delivery to HIV reservoirs.
CONCLUSIONS: We show that the combination of TNF and AuNPs exhibits 
multifunctional activity, viz. anti-HIV1 and anti-HIV1 protease. These findings 
are being reported for the first time and highlight the prospects of developing 
AuNP-TNF as a novel next-generation platform to treat HIV/AIDS.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12951-022-01750-w
PMCID: PMC9850711
PMID: 36658575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


650. J Public Health Res. 2023 Jan 15;12(1):22799036221147369. doi: 
10.1177/22799036221147369. eCollection 2023 Jan.

The relationship between maternal death due to COVID-19 and the human 
development index in East Java, Indonesia.

Prasetyo B(1)(2), Laksana MAC(1), Tjokroprawiro BA(1), Dewi ER(2), Izza A(2), 
Prasetyo MR(3), Prastika AB(2), Sukarjiyah W(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas 
Airlangga/Soetomo General Hospital, Surabaya, Indonesia.
(2)School of Midwifery, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Airlangga, Surabaya, 
Indonesia.
(3)Medical Study Program, Faculty of Medicine, Airlangga University, Surabaya, 
Indonesia.
(4)East Java Provincial Health Office, Surabaya, Indonesia.

BACKGROUND: Maternal mortality rates and human development indexes can reflect a 
country's quality of health services. During the COVID-19 pandemic, these two 
achievement indicators are predicted to experience significant changes, and both 
have an interrelated relationship.
OBJECTIVES: To find the relationship between maternal death due to COVID-19 and 
the Human Development Index (HDI) in East Java, Indonesia.
DESIGN AND METHODS: A cross-sectional analytic study was carried out by 
processing secondary data from the provincial department of health regarding 
maternal mortality due to COVID-19 in East Java in 2020 and the HDI data from 
the Indonesian Central Statistics Agency. After that, the data were analyzed 
statistically using SPSS Statistics.
RESULTS: The number of maternal deaths due to East Java's COVID-19 during 2020 
was 793 out of 1280. Furthermore, the HDI reached 2744.6, the first dimension 
contains life expectancy reaching 2725.3, and the number of health workers 
100,021. In the second dimension, the literacy rate reaches 3482.9, and the 
average length of schooling is 134,341. Moreover, the last dimension contains a 
total population density of 40,878,789, and a poverty rate of 4572.7. 
Statistical analysis results show a positive relationship between maternal 
mortality due to COVID-19 and HDI, with a p-value of 0.008.
CONCLUSION: There is a significant relationship between maternal mortality due 
to COVID-19 and HDI. However, the link between maternal mortality and COVID-19 
related to the detailed dimensions contained in the HDI is not statistically 
related.

© The Author(s) 2023.

DOI: 10.1177/22799036221147369
PMCID: PMC9845849
PMID: 36660009

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


651. Cardiol Res. 2022 Dec;13(6):339-356. doi: 10.14740/cr1416. Epub 2022 Dec 1.

Modeling Doxorubicin-Induced Cardiomyopathy With Fibrotic Myocardial Damage in 
Wistar Rats.

Podyacheva E(1), Shmakova T(1), Kushnareva E(1), Onopchenko A(1), Martynov M(1), 
Andreeva D(1), Toropov R(1), Cheburkin Y(1), Levchuk K(1), Goldaeva A(1), 
Toropova Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Almazov National Medical Research Centre, Ministry of Health of the Russian 
Federation, 197341, Saint-Petersburg, Russian Federation.

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular complications, arising after anthracycline 
chemotherapy, cause a significant deterioration in the life quality and 
expectancy of those patients who were previously successfully treated for 
malignant neoplasms. A number of clinical studies have demonstrated that 
patients with cardiotoxicity manifested during anthracyclines therapy also have 
extensive fibrotic changes in the cardiac muscle in the long term. Given the 
lack of an unambiguous understanding of the mechanisms of fibrotic changes 
formation under doxorubicin treatment in the myocardium, there is the obvious 
necessity to create a relevant experimental model of chronic doxorubicin-induced 
cardiomyopathy with fibrotic myocardial lesions and delayed development of 
diastolic dysfunction.
METHODS: The study was divided into two stages: first stage (creation of acute 
doxorubicin cardiomyopathy) - 35 male Wistar rats; second stage (creation of 
chronic doxorubicin cardiomyopathy) - 40 male Wistar rats. The animals were 
split into eight groups (two control ones and six experimental ones), which 
determined the doxorubicin dose (first stage: 25, 20.4, 15 mg/kg; second stage: 
5, 10, 15 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) and the frequency of injection. 
Echocardiographic, hematological, histological, and molecular methods were used 
to confirm the successful modeling of acute and chronic doxorubicin-induced 
cardiomyopathy with fibrotic lesions.
RESULTS: A model of administration six times every other day with a cumulative 
dose of doxorubicin 20 mg/kg is suitable for evaluation of acute cardiotoxicity. 
The 15 mg/kg doxorubicin dose is highly cardiotoxic; what's more, it correlates 
with progressive deterioration of the clinical condition of the animals after 2 
months. The optimal cumulative dose of doxorubicin leads to clinical 
manifestations confirmed by echocardiographic, histological, molecular changes 
associated with the development of chronic doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy 
with fibrotic lesions of the left ventricular of the cardiac muscle and ensure 
long-term survival of animals is 10 mg/kg doxorubicin. A dose of 5 mg/kg of the 
doxorubicin does not ensure the development of fibrous changes formation.
CONCLUSION: We assume that cumulative dose of 10 mg/kg with a frequency of 
administration of six times in 2 days can be used to study the mechanisms of 
anthracycline cardiomyopathy development.

Copyright 2022, Podyacheva et al.

DOI: 10.14740/cr1416
PMCID: PMC9822674
PMID: 36660062

Conflict of interest statement: The authors confirm that they have no conflict 
of interest to declare.


652. Cureus. 2022 Dec 18;14(12):e32661. doi: 10.7759/cureus.32661. eCollection
2022  Dec.

HIV-Associated Conditions in Older Adults.

Jaqua E(1), Labib W(2), Danji K(3).

Author information:
(1)Family Medicine, Loma Linda University Medical Center, Loma Linda, USA.
(2)Geriatrics, Loma Linda University Medical Center, Loma Linda, USA.
(3)Geriatrics, Loma Linda University Health, Loma Linda, USA.

Geriatric practices will see more people living with human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV), as their life expectancy is close to the general population due to 
effective antiretroviral therapy (ART). Geriatricians focus more on 
HIV-associated, non-acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) disorders than HIV 
alone. We will review the most common chronic illnesses and conditions 
associated with aging and HIV. Even though fall frequency in older adults living 
with HIV is similar to or lower than in people without HIV, fall assessment is 
appropriate, especially in the high-risk elderly living with HIV. HIV also 
impacts motor function and memory loss, especially in advanced cases. ART 
doesn't cross the blood-brain barrier, leading to major neurocognitive disorders 
with age. The etiology of HIV and cardiovascular disease (CVD) is 
multifactorial, including the effect of ART. Pitavastatin and pravastatin cause 
fewer interactions with ART. While the treatment for HIV decreases the risk of 
opportunistic infections, it may cause several bone-related abnormalities, 
including low bone mineral density (BMD), osteoporosis, and fractures. 
Polypharmacy is associated with disability and mortality and may increase the 
risk of ART drug-drug interaction. The oral health status of HIV-infected 
patients is commonly inadequate, and the presence of dental care managers may 
improve clinical outcomes and increase medication adherence. Furthermore, people 
aging with HIV (PAWH) have an increased mortality risk when co-infected with 
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). In summary, older adults living with HIV 
may face unique challenges. Therefore, providing comprehensive medical care and 
psychosocial support through an interdisciplinary team can significantly impact 
their lives.

Copyright © 2022, Jaqua et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.32661
PMCID: PMC9844266
PMID: 36660505

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


653. Cureus. 2022 Dec 17;14(12):e32618. doi: 10.7759/cureus.32618. eCollection
2022  Dec.

Recurrent Brain Abscess in a Child With Cyanotic Congenital Heart Disease.

Kiran A 2nd(1), Taksande A(2), Chaudhary R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Datta Meghe 
Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha, IND.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Datta Meghe 
Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha, IND.

Brain abscesses are rare but life-threatening conditions associated with 
morbidity and mortality. They are encountered in unoperated and partially 
treated cyanotic congenital heart diseases. Our patient is a diagnosed case of 
transposition of great arteries with a ventricular septal defect. She had 
recurrent abscesses for which a combination of antimicrobial therapy and 
surgical excision was performed. Surgical excision carries a great risk of 
rupture of abscess into the ventricular system and is associated with poorer 
outcomes. The outcome of brain abscess primarily depends on Glasgow Coma Score 
(GCS) at the time of admission and ventricular extension of the abscess. 
Fortunately, our patient showed good results without any apparent neurological 
sequelae. Early diagnosis of the brain abscess and timely administration of 
antibiotics help in a good outcome.

Copyright © 2022, Kiran et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.32618
PMCID: PMC9845802
PMID: 36660522

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


654. Biosci Microbiota Food Health. 2023;42(1):24-33. doi:
10.12938/bmfh.2022-011.  Epub 2022 Jun 23.

Isolation of the high polyamine-producing bacterium Staphylococcus epidermidis 
FB146 from fermented foods and identification of polyamine-related genes.

Shirasawa H(1), Nishiyama C(2), Hirano R(1)(2), Koyanagi T(2), Okuda S(3), 
Takagi H(2), Kurihara S(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Biology-oriented Science and Technology, Kindai University, 930 
Nishimitani, Kinokawa, Wakayama 649-6493, Japan.
(2)Faculty of Bioresources and Environmental Science, Ishikawa Prefectural 
University, 1-308 Suematsu, Nonoichi, Ishikawa 921-8836, Japan.
(3)Medical AI Center, Niigata University School of Medicine, 2-5274 
Gakkocho-dori, Chuo-ku, Niigata, Niigata 951-8514, Japan.

It has been reported that the intake of polyamines contributes to the extension 
of healthy life span in animals. Fermented foods contain high concentrations of 
polyamines thought to be derived from fermentation bacteria. This suggests that 
bacteria that produce high levels of polyamines could be isolated from fermented 
foods and utilized as a source of polyamines for human nutrition. In this study, 
Staphylococcus epidermidis FB146 was isolated from miso, a Japanese fermented 
bean paste, and found to have a high concentration of putrescine in its culture 
supernatant (452 μM). We analyzed the presence of polyamines in the culture 
supernatants and cells of the type strains of 21 representative Staphylococcus 
species in addition to S. epidermidis FB146, and only S. epidermidis FB146 
showed high putrescine productivity. Furthermore, whole-genome sequencing of S. 
epidermidis FB146 was performed, and the ornithine decarboxylase gene (odc), 
which is involved in putrescine synthesis, and the putrescine:ornithine 
antiporter gene (potE), which is thought to contribute to the release of 
putrescine into the culture supernatant, were present on plasmid DNA harbored by 
S. epidermidis FB146.

©2023 BMFH Press.

DOI: 10.12938/bmfh.2022-011
PMCID: PMC9816048
PMID: 36660601


655. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2023 Jan 31;103(4):229-234. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112137-20221111-02372.

[Analysis of the international application of healthy life expectancy].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Cai Y(1), Wu SY(1), Chen YD(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Statistics and Information, National Health Commission, 
Beijing 100044, China.
(2)School of Public Health, Peking University, Beijing 100083, China.

Healthy life expectancy is based on life expectancy to further identify the 
healthy component, moving the assessment threshold from the mortality to the 
whole life cycle, receiving more and more attention worldwide. Nowadays, it has 
become one of the core indicators of national major strategy and plan. As a 
comprehensive indicator of health measurement, healthy life expectancy is 
complicated and multi-dimensional. Different social and cultural backgrounds 
have different understandings of health and choose different measurement 
dimensions. Overall, although high-income countries have different choices in 
their national health plan, healthy life expectancy without activity restriction 
is by far the most widely used indicator. This paper reviewed the concept and 
application of healthy life expectancy systematically, drawing on international 
practical experience to provide reference for the establishment of a healthy 
life expectancy indicator system in line with the Chinese national conditions.

Publisher: 
健康预期寿命是在预期寿命的基础上进一步识别健康部分，将评价关口从死亡前移至全生命周期，在世界范围内得到越来越多的关注，同时也已成为我国重大战略规划的核心指标之一。健康预期寿命作为健康测量的综合性指标具有复杂性和多维性，不同社会文化背景对于健康的理解和测量维度的选择存在差异，总体看来，尽管高收入国家选择纳入国民健康规划的指标不同，但无活动受限健康预期寿命是目前应用最广泛的指标。本文对国际上健康预期寿命的概念与应用情况进行梳理，借鉴国际实践经验，为建立符合我国国情的健康预期寿命指标体系提供参考。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112137-20221111-02372
PMID: 36660783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. HERD. 2023 Apr;16(2):284-309. doi: 10.1177/19375867221133135. Epub 2023 Jan
20.

Exploring Methodological Approaches of Experimental Studies in the Field of 
Neuroarchitecture: A Systematic Review.

Rad PN(1), Behzadi F(2), Yazdanfar SA(2), Ghamari H(3), Zabeh E(4)(5), Lashgari 
R(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Science and Technology, Shahid Beheshti University 
(SBU), Tehran, Iran.
(2)School of Architecture and Environmental Design, University of Science and 
Technology (IUST), Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Family and Consumer Sciences, California State University, 
Northridge, CA, USA.
(4)Colombia University, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Electrical Engineering, Sharif University of Technology, 
Tehran, Iran.

OBJECTIVES: This systematic review aims to strengthen the relationship between 
