architecture and neuroscience by classifying data measurement techniques in the 
field of neuroarchitecture with a focus on the most practical and common 
methodological approaches. It classifies data recording techniques in different 
architectural categories (e.g., interior, urban, built environment).
BACKGROUNDS: With regard to urban life developments and technological 
breakthroughs, studies of human interactions with environments have been 
expanding in recent years. Additionally, recent advances in neuroscience have 
allowed architects to find out more about human experiences in built 
environments, but there are few valid frameworks about what methodologies and 
instruments are more common to conduct experimental tasks in this 
interdisciplinary field.
METHODS: Twenty-eight experimental studies were selected based on the preferred 
reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses literature search 
extension (PRISMA) systematic review protocol and a comprehensive analysis. The 
task-space of selected articles was categorized into three subfields, namely, 
"interior design," "urban design," and "building design" based on environments 
and their stimuli. As for this context-based categorization, recording 
techniques and methodology were distinguished for each subfield division.
RESULTS: More than 50% of the studies were incorporated in the first two 
categories, and the EEG recording was the most frequently employed neuroimaging 
technique thanks to the technical efficacy of its setup and the high temporal 
resolution of its electrophysiological signals.
CONCLUSION: In this study, a summary of techniques and methodological approaches 
applied in the field is provided in a nut shell, and a general framework of 
instruments is presented to help scholars to carry out more practical research 
in the future leading to designing built environments more efficiently.

DOI: 10.1177/19375867221133135
PMID: 36661104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Behav Sci (Basel). 2022 Dec 21;13(1):4. doi: 10.3390/bs13010004.

Futurization of Aging: Subjective Beliefs and Effects.

Strizhitskaya O(1), Petrash M(1), Golubitskaya D(1), Kuzmina M(1), Krupina K(1), 
Shchukin A(1), Engelgardt E(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology, Saint Petersburg State University, 199034 Saint 
Petersburg, Russia.

Aging in the face of an increasing population and growing life expectancy is 
considered one of the major demographic challenges in modern society. Previous 
research has revealed that quality of life in aging could significantly differ 
depending on the resources one possesses. However, little attention has been 
given to the mechanisms of formation of these resources and the role of 
intentionality. In the present study, we identified 22 strategies that favor a 
better life quality in aging and analyzed them from the perspective of 
subjective beliefs and reported performance. Our sample was adults (n = 72) aged 
57-65, living in St. Petersburg, Russia. The results showed that although 
participants were aware of the strategies that favor aging, their reported 
performance ranged on a scale from average to infrequent use of these 
strategies. We found that subjective beliefs about the role of psychological 
resources for better aging predicted higher scores on subjective beliefs about 
the role of lifestyle resources and the reported performance of psychological 
resources. Our results suggest that there is a gap between subjective beliefs 
about the controllability of aging processes and the transformation of these 
beliefs into real performance.

DOI: 10.3390/bs13010004
PMCID: PMC9855098
PMID: 36661576

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


658. Gels. 2023 Jan 12;9(1):61. doi: 10.3390/gels9010061.

Kaniwa (Chenopodium pallidicaule)'s Nutritional Composition and Its 
Applicability as an Elder-Friendly Food with Gelling Agents.

Kim DS(1), Iida F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food and Nutrition, Japan Women's University, Tokyo 112-8681, 
Japan.

(1) Background: This study attempted to develop an elder-friendly food suitable 
to the Korean Industrial Standard (KS) after identifying the nutritional 
characteristics of Kaniwa; (2) Methods: The nutrient composition and 
physiological activity of Kaniwa were analyzed, and the concentration of the 
gelling agent (guar gum, locust bean gum, and xanthan gum) to be added to Kaniwa 
mousse was derived through regression analysis to suit KS hardness level 1 to 3; 
(3) Results: It was found that Kaniwa not only had a good fatty acid composition 
but also had good antioxidant and anti-diabetic properties. Moreover, it was 
found that in order to have the hardness to chew Kaniwa mousse with the tongue, 
it was necessary to add less than 1.97% guar gum, 4.03% locust bean gum, and 
8.59% xanthan gum. In order to have a hardness that can be chewed with the gum, 
it was found that 2.17~4.97% guar gum, 4.45~10.28% locust bean gum, and 
9.48~21.96% xanthan gum should be added; (4) Conclusions: As the aging rate and 
life expectancy increase, support for developmental research related to the 
elder-friendly industry should be continuously expanded in preparation for the 
upcoming super-aging society.

DOI: 10.3390/gels9010061
PMCID: PMC9858278
PMID: 36661827

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


659. J Cardiovasc Dev Dis. 2023 Jan 11;10(1):28. doi: 10.3390/jcdd10010028.

An Individualized, Less-Invasive Surgical Approach Algorithm Improves Outcome in 
Elderly Patients Undergoing Mitral Valve Surgery.

Oezpeker UC(1), Barbieri F(2), Höfer D(1), Gollmann-Tepeköylü C(1), Holfeld 
J(1), Sommerauer F(1), Wagner J(3), Rajsic S(3), Ersahin S(4), Bonaros N(1), 
Grimm M(1), Ludwig M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Medical University of Innsbruck, 6020 
Innsbruck, Austria.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Charité-Universität zu Berlin, Hindenburgdamm 30, 
12203 Berlin, Germany.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine, Medical University 
of Innsbruck, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria.
(4)Sakarya Eğitim ve Araştırma Hospital, 54100 Adapazarı, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: For mitral valve surgery (MVS) in elderly, frail patients with 
increasing life expectancy, finding the least harmful means of access is a 
challenge. In the complexity of MVS approach evolution, using three different 
approaches (mini-thoracotomy (MT), partial upper-sternotomy (PS), 
full-sternotomy (FS), we developed a personalized, minimized-invasiveness 
algorithm for MVS.
METHODS: In this retrospective analysis, 517 elderly patients (≥70 years) were 
identified who had undergone MVS ± TV repair. MVS was performed via MT (n = 
274), FS (n = 128) and PS (n = 115). The appropriate access type was defined 
according to several clinical patient conditions. Using uni- and multivariate 
regression models, we analyzed combined operative success (residual MV 
regurgitation, conversion to MV replacement or larger thoracic incisions); 
perioperative success (30-days mortality, thoracotomy, ECMO, pacemaker 
implantation, dialysis, longer ventilation); and reoperation-free long-term 
survival. An additional EuroSCORE2 adjustment was performed to reduce the bias 
of clinical conditions between all access types.
RESULTS: The EuroSCORE2-adjusted Cox regression analysis showed significantly 
increased reoperation-free survival in the MT cohort compared to FS (HR 0.640; 
95% CI 0.442-0.926; p = 0.018). Mortality was additionally reduced after the 
implementation of PS (p = 0.023). Combined operative success was comparable 
between the three access types. The perioperative success was higher in the MT 
cohort compared to FS (OR 2.19, 95% CI 1.32-3.63; p = 0.002).
CONCLUSION: Less-invasive approaches in elderly patients improve perioperative 
success and reoperation-free survival in those undergoing MVS procedures.

DOI: 10.3390/jcdd10010028
PMCID: PMC9862192
PMID: 36661923

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare that there are no conflict 
of interest.


660. Pharmacoeconomics. 2023 Feb;41(2):209-225. doi: 10.1007/s40273-022-01220-z.
Epub  2023 Jan 20.

Cost-Utility Analysis of Esketamine for Patients with Treatment-Resistant 
Depression in Italy.

Rognoni C(1), Falivena C(2), Costa F(2), Armeni P(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research on Health and Social Care Management (CERGAS), SDA 
Bocconi School of Management, Bocconi University, Via Sarfatti 10, 20136, Milan, 
Italy. carla.rognoni@unibocconi.it.
(2)Centre for Research on Health and Social Care Management (CERGAS), SDA 
Bocconi School of Management, Bocconi University, Via Sarfatti 10, 20136, Milan, 
Italy.

AIM: Major depressive disorder is considered one of the most frequent diseases 
in the general population, and treatment-resistant depression (TRD) represents 
the subset with more significant clinical and social impact. Large, robust phase 
III studies have shown safety and efficacy of esketamine nasal spray plus 
SSRI/SNRI antidepressants (ADs) compared with SSRI/SNRI plus placebo nasal spray 
in patients with TRD. The main aim of this study was to perform a cost-utility 
analysis comparing esketamine plus ADs with ADs alone in TRD patients, from the 
societal perspective in Italy. A secondary analysis focused on the National 
Healthcare Service (NHS) perspective.
METHODS: A Markov multistate model has been developed to estimate 
quality-adjusted life years and economic outcomes of both treatment strategies 
over 5 years considering the initiation of esketamine in the different treatment 
lines, from 3 to 5 (3L-5L). The model has been populated with data from 
literature and real-world evidence. The analysis from the societal perspective 
considered direct healthcare costs and patients' productivity losses. In 
addition to the incremental cost-utility ratio (ICUR), the incremental net 
monetary benefit (INMB) has been calculated as (incremental 
benefit × WTP) - incremental cost and by applying a willingness-to-pay (WTP) of 
50,000€/QALY. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses have been 
performed to assess the robustness of the model results.
RESULTS: From the societal perspective, the ICUR ranged between 16,314€ and 
22,133€ per QALY according to the different treatment lines, while it was over 
the threshold of 100,000€/QALY for the NHS perspective. The INMB was positive 
and ranged from 2259€ to 2744€ across treatment lines in the societal 
perspective; the INMB begins to occur earlier when moving towards subsequent 
lines of treatment (3.9 years for 3L, 3.6 years for 4L and 3.5 years for 5L). 
The analyses showed also that the advantage in terms of INMB is maintained for a 
wide range of societal preferences expressed by WTP thresholds, and in 
particular for values above 22,200€, 16,400€ and 17,100€ for 3L, 4L and 5L, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: The study showed that esketamine may be a cost-effective opportunity 
from the societal perspective for the management of patients with 
treatment-resistant depression. In the future, data collected from observational 
studies or registries, which can include the collection of productivity losses 
and also costs sustained by the patients, will be able to provide further 
evidence in order to improve the reliability of the model results.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-022-01220-z
PMCID: PMC9883339
PMID: 36662417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors do not declare any conflict of 
interest.661. Medicines (Basel). 2022 Dec 30;10(1):6. doi: 10.3390/medicines10010006.

Novel Polyethylene Terephthalate Screw Sleeve Implant: Salvage Treatment in a 
Case of Spine Instability after Vertebroplasty Failure.

Drago G(1), Pastorello G(2), Gallinaro P(2), Zanata R(2), Del Verme J(2), Stafa 
A(3), Giordan E(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Università di Padova, 35131 Padova, Italy.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Aulss 2 Marca Trevigiana, 31100 Treviso, Italy.
(3)Department of Neuroradiology, Aulss 2 Marca Trevigiana, 31100 Treviso, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: The management of osteoporotic fractures is sometimes rather 
challenging for spinal surgeons, and considering the longer life expectancy 
induced by improved living conditions, their prevalence is expected to increase. 
At present, the approaches to osteoporotic fractures differ depending on their 
severity, location, and the patient's age. State-of-the-art treatments range 
from vertebroplasty/kyphoplasty to hardware-based spinal stabilization in which 
screw augmentation with cement is the gold standard.
CASE PRESENTATION: We describe the case of a 74-year-old man with an L5 
osteoporotic fracture. The patient underwent a vertebroplasty (VP) procedure, 
which was complicated by a symptomatic cement leakage in the right L4-L5 
neuroforamen. We urgently decompressed the affected pedicle via hemilaminectomy. 
At that point, the column required stability. The extravasation of cement had 
ruled out the use of cement-augmented pedicle screws but leaving the pedicular 
screws alone was not considered sufficient to achieve stability. We decided to 
cover the screws with a polyethylene terephthalate sleeve (OGmend®) to avoid 
additional cement leakage and to reinforce the screw strength required by the 
poor bone quality.
CONCLUSION: In the evolving technologies used for spinal surgery, screws sleeve 
implants such as OGmend® are a useful addition to the surgeon's armamentarium 
when an increased pull-out strength is required and other options are not 
available.

DOI: 10.3390/medicines10010006
PMCID: PMC9861514
PMID: 36662490

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest to 
declare.


662. Arch Insect Biochem Physiol. 2023 May;113(1):e22002. doi:
10.1002/arch.22002.  Epub 2023 Jan 20.

Effects of Lymantria dispar multiple nucleopolyhedrovirus and Bacillus 
thuringiensis var. kurstaki on different larval instars of Lymantria dispar 
asiatica.

Hwang HS(1), Acharya R(1), Lucas MC(1), Sharma SR(1), Lee YS(2), Lee KY(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Kyungpook National University, 
Daegu, Republic of Korea.
(2)Gyeonggi Agricultural Research and Extension Services, Hwaseong, Republic of 
Korea.

Outbreaks of Lymantria dispar asiatica (the Asian spongy moth; Lepidoptera: 
Erebidae) occur sporadically, causing widespread damage to forest and fruit 
trees. Owing to the development of pesticide resistance and environmental 
contamination, biopesticides, including L. dispar multiple 
nucleopolyhedrovirus (LdMNPV) and Bacillus thuringiensis var. kurstaki (Btk), 
can significantly contribute to controlling overall larval stage of this 
species. Although both pathogens are highly effective at the larval stage, their 
effects on different instar stages have not been investigated. In this study, we 
analyzed the mortality and lethality in different L. dispar asiatica instars 
exposed to single or combined pathogen treatments. Treatments with low or medium 
LdMNPV concentrations induced lower mortality and had higher LT50 values at the 
4th and 5th instars compared with other instars, whereas high LdMNPV treatments 
induced high mortality in all instars, with higher LT50 values at later instars. 
Treatment with Btk induced a rapid 100% mortality in all instars, with higher 
LT50 values for the later instars. The combination of LdMNPV and Btk delayed the 
killing time compared with the effects of single treatments, with the effect 
being more pronounced in the 1st and 5th instar stage than at other stages at 
low Btk concentrations. Our findings indicate that the pathogenic effects of 
LdMNPV and Btk on L. dispar asiatica differ according to larval stage, thereby 
providing novel insights into enhancing the biological control efficacy of these 
agents against L. dispar asiatica in the field.

© 2023 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/arch.22002
PMID: 36662511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Sports (Basel). 2022 Dec 21;11(1):2. doi: 10.3390/sports11010002.

Intra and Inter-Rater Reliability of a Novel Isometric Test of Neck Strength.

McBride L(1), James RS(2), Alsop S(3), Oxford SW(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Midwifery and Health, Coventry University, Priory Street, 
Coventry CV1 5FB, UK.
(2)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Bradford, Bradford BD7 1DP, UK.
(3)Research Centre for Global Learning, Coventry University, Priory Street, 
Coventry CV1 5FB, UK.
(4)Centre for Sport, Exercise and Life Sciences, Institute for Health and 
Wellbeing, Coventry University, Priory Street, Coventry CV1 5FB, UK.

There is no single, universally accepted method of measuring isometric neck 
strength to inform exercise prescription and injury risk prediction. This study 
aimed to establish the inter- and intra-rater reliability of a commercially 
available fixed frame dynamometer in measuring peak isometric neck strength. A 
convenience sample of male (n = 16) and female (n = 20) university students 
performed maximal isometric contractions for flexion (Flex), extension (Ext), 
left- (LSF) and right-side flexion (RSF) in a quadruped position over three 
sessions. The intra-rater reliability results were good-to-excellent for both 
males (ICC = 0.83−0.90) and females (ICC = 0.86−0.94) and acceptable (CV < 15%) 
across all directions for both males and females. The inter-rater reliability 
results were excellent (ICC = 0.96−0.97) and acceptable (CV < 11.1%) across all 
directions. Findings demonstrated a significant effect for sex (p ≤ 0.05): males 
were stronger in all four directions, and a significant effect for direction (p 
≤ 0.05): Ext tested stronger (193 N) than Flex (176 N), LSF (130 N) and RSF (125 
N). The findings show that the VALD fixed frame dynamometer can reliably assess 
isometric neck strength and can provides reference values for healthy males and 
females.

DOI: 10.3390/sports11010002
PMCID: PMC9860534
PMID: 36668706

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


664. Vet Sci. 2022 Dec 29;10(1):20. doi: 10.3390/vetsci10010020.

Local and Systemic Antibody Responses in Beef Calves Vaccinated with a 
Modified-Live Virus Bovine Respiratory Syncytial Virus (BRSV) Vaccine at Birth 
following BRSV Infection.

Martínez DA(1), Chamorro MF(1), Passler T(1), Huber L(2), Walz PH(2), Thoresen 
M(3), Raithel G(2), Silvis S(2), Stockler R(4), Woolums AR(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, Auburn 
University, Auburn, AL 36849, USA.
(2)Department of Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Auburn 
University, Auburn, AL 36849, USA.
(3)Department of Pathobiology and Population Medicine, College of Veterinary 
Medicine, Mississippi State University, Starkville, MS 39762, USA.
(4)J.B. Taylor Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory, Department of Agriculture and 
Industries, Alabama Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory System, Elba, AL 36323, 
USA.

Maternal antibodies interfere with BRSV vaccine responses and efficacy in young 
calves. The objective of this study was to determine if vaccination before the 
complete absorption of colostral antibodies results in adequate immune priming 
and clinical protection of beef calves. Within 6 h of life, calves were randomly 
assigned to 2 different treatment groups. Group Vacc (n = 25) received a single 
dose of a modified-live virus (MLV) BRSV vaccine intranasally (IN) and group 
Control (n = 25) received 2 mL of 0.9% saline IN. At approximately 3 months of 
age, all calves were experimentally challenged with BRSV. Serum and nasal 
secretion samples were collected before and after challenge for BRSV real-time 
RT-PCR and antibody testing. Respiratory signs were not observed before 
challenge. After challenge, respiratory scores were similar between groups. On 
the challenge day, >40% of calves in each group were febrile. The mean serum and 
nasal BRSV-specific antibody titers indicated natural BRSV exposure before the 
experimental challenge in both groups. All calves tested positive for BRSV and 
had a similar duration of shedding after challenge. Based on these results, 
vaccination at birth does not offer advantages for immune priming or clinical 
protection for beef calves in BRSV-endemic cow-calf herds.

DOI: 10.3390/vetsci10010020
PMCID: PMC9863489
PMID: 36669022

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


665. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2023 Feb;251:114556. doi:
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2023.114556.  Epub 2023 Jan 18.

Toxicity enhancement of nano titanium dioxide to Brachionus calyciflorus 
(Rotifera) under simulated sunlight and the underlying mechanisms.

Yang L(1), Xu J(1), Gao H(2), Dai S(1), Liu L(2), Xi Y(1), Zhang G(3), Wen X(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Ecology and Environment, Anhui Normal University, Wuhu 241002, 
China; Collaborative Innovation Center of Recovery and Reconstruction of 
Degraded Ecosystem in Wanjiang Basin Co-founded by Anhui Province and Ministry 
of Education, Wuhu 241002, China.
(2)College of Chemistry & Pharmacy, Northwest A & F University, Yangling 712100, 
Shaanxi, China.
(3)School of Ecology and Environment, Anhui Normal University, Wuhu 241002, 
China. Electronic address: zhanggen1988@163.com.
(4)School of Ecology and Environment, Anhui Normal University, Wuhu 241002, 
China; Collaborative Innovation Center of Recovery and Reconstruction of 
Degraded Ecosystem in Wanjiang Basin Co-founded by Anhui Province and Ministry 
of Education, Wuhu 241002, China. Electronic address: wenxinli1977@126.com.

Nano titanium dioxide (nTiO2) generally shows low toxicity to organisms under 
light-emitting diode (LED) light. However, nTiO2 can induce production of 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) under ultraviolet (UV) light due to its 
photocatalytic activity. Therefore, it is reasonable to expect the enhancement 
of nTiO2 toxicity under sunlight. To test this hypothesis, we compared the 
toxicity of nTiO2 to Brachionus calyciflorus under simulated sunlight and LED 
light. The results showed that the 24 h-LC50 of nTiO2 to B. calyciflorus under 
LED light and simulated sunlight were 24.32 (95% CI: 14.54-46.81 mg/L) and 
10.44 mg/L (95% CI: 6.74-17.09 mg/L), respectively. Compared with the blank 
control, treatments with nTiO2 significantly affected life-table demographic 
parameters, population growth parameters and swimming linear speed under both 
simulated sunlight and LED light. However, life expectancy, net reproductive 
rate, average lifespan, maximal population density, and swimming linear speed in 
the treatments of nTiO2 at 0.1, 1, and/or 10 mg/L showed markedly lower values 
under simulated sunlight than those under LED light, suggesting that simulated 
sunlight could enhance the toxicity of nTiO2. In addition, markedly higher 
catalase (CAT) activity and malondialdehyde (MDA) content but lower glutathione 
(GSH) content were observed in treatment with 10 mg/L nTiO2 under simulated 
sunlight than that under LED light. The results showed that compared with LED 
light, simulated sunlight significantly induced more oxidative stress in the 
presence of nTiO2, and the ROS production was mainly localized to the corona and 
digestive tract of rotifers by confocal laser scanning microscope. Exposure to 
10-50 μM of vitamin C, that is an effective ROS scavenger, could rescue the 
swimming linear speed of rotifers to the normal level in the blank control. 
These results suggested that oxidative damages on cell membrane might be the 
vital mechanism underlying the toxicity enhancement of nTiO2 to rotifers under 
simulated sunlight. Thus, the previous publications under LED light may 
underestimate the real toxicity and environmental risk of nTiO2 in natural 
conditions.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2023.114556
PMID: 36669281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


666. Lancet Glob Health. 2023 Feb;11(2):e229-e243. doi: 
10.1016/S2214-109X(22)00497-1.

The state of health in Pakistan and its provinces and territories, 1990-2019: a 
systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Pakistan Collaborators.

Collaborators: Hafeez A, Dangel WJ, Ostroff SM, Kiani AG, Glenn SD, Abbas J, 
Afzal MS, Afzal S, Ahmad S, Ahmed A, Ahmed H, Ali L, Ali M, Ali Z, Arshad M, 
Ashraf T, Bhutta ZA, Bibi S, Butt ZA, Das JK, Fadoo Z, Hanif A, Hayat K, Humayun 
A, Iqbal K, Iqbal U, Khalid N, Khan EA, Khan MS, Malik AA, Naveed M, Naz S, 
Niazi RK, Piracha ZZ, Saeed U, Salman M, Samad Z, Saqib MAN, Shah SM, Shahid I, 
Shaikh MA, Shamshad H, Shuja KH, Suleman M, Ullah A, Ullah I, Ullah S, Ullah S, 
Waheed Y, Waris A, Hay SI, Murray CJL, Mokdad AH.

BACKGROUND: Understanding health trends and estimating the burden of disease at 
the national and subnational levels helps policy makers track progress and 
identify disparities in overall health performance. The Global Burden of 
Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2019 provides comprehensive 
estimates for Pakistan. Comparison of health indicators since 1990 provides 
valuable insights about Pakistan's ability to strengthen its health-care system, 
reduce inequalities, improve female and child health outcomes, achieve universal 
health coverage, and meet the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We present 
estimates of the burden of disease, injuries, and risk factors for Pakistan 
provinces and territories from 1990 to 2019 based on GBD 2019 to improve health 
and health outcomes in the country.
METHODS: We used methods and data inputs from GBD 2019 to estimate 
socio-demographic index, total fertility rate, cause-specific deaths, years of 
life lost, years lived with disability, disability-adjusted life-years, healthy 
life expectancy, and risk factors for 286 causes of death and 369 causes of 
non-fatal health loss in Pakistan and its four provinces and three territories 
from 1990 to 2019. To generate estimates for Pakistan at the national and 
subnational levels, we used 68 location-years of data to estimate 
Pakistan-specific demographic indicators, 316 location-years of data for 
Pakistan-specific causes of death, 579 location-years of data for 
Pakistan-specific non-fatal outcomes, 296 location-years of data for 
Pakistan-specific risk factors, and 3089 location-years of data for 
Pakistan-specific covariates.
FINDINGS: Life expectancy for both sexes in Pakistan increased nationally from 
61·1 (95% uncertainty interval [UI] 60·0-62·1) years in 1990 to 65·9 (63·8-67·8) 
years in 2019; however, these gains were not uniform across the provinces and 
federal territories. Pakistan saw a narrowing of the difference in healthy life 
expectancy between the sexes from 1990 to 2019, as health gains for women 
occurred at faster rates than for men. For women, life expectancy increased by 
8·2% (95% UI 6·3-13·8) between 1990 and 2019, whereas the male life expectancy 
increased by 7·6% (3·5-11·8). Neonatal disorders, followed by ischaemic heart 
disease, stroke, diarrhoeal diseases, and lower respiratory infections were the 
leading causes of all-age premature mortality in 2019. Child and maternal 
malnutrition, air pollution, high systolic blood pressure, dietary risks, and 
tobacco consumption were the leading all-age risk factors for death and 
disability-adjusted life-years at the national level in 2019. Five 
non-communicable diseases-ischaemic heart disease, stroke, congenital defects, 
cirrhosis, and chronic kidney disease-were among the ten leading causes of years 
of life lost in Pakistan. Burden varied by socio-demographic index. Notably, 
Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa had the lowest observed gains in life 
expectancy. Dietary iron deficiency was the leading cause of years lived with 
disability for both men and women in 1990 and 2019. Low birthweight and short 
gestation and particulate matter pollution were the leading contributors to 
overall disease burden in both 1990 and 2019 despite moderate improvements, with 
a 23·5% (95% UI 3·8-39·2) and 27·6% (14·3-38·6) reduction in age-standardised 
attributable DALY rates during the study period.
INTERPRETATION: Our study shows that progress has been made on reducing 
Pakistan's disease burden since 1990, but geographical, age, and sex disparities 
persist. Equitable investment in the health system, as well as the 
prioritisation of high-impact policy interventions and programmes, are needed to 
save lives and improve health outcomes. Pakistan is facing several domestic and 
foreign challenges-the Taliban's return to power in Afghanistan, political 
turmoil, catastrophic flooding, the COVID-19 pandemic-that will shape the 
trajectory of the country's health and development. Pakistan must address the 
burden of infectious disease and curb rising rates of non-communicable diseases. 
Prioritising these three areas will enhance Pakistan's ability to achieve 
universal health coverage, meet its Sustainable Development Goals, and improve 
the overall health outcomes.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.
TRANSLATION: For the Urdu translation of the abstract see Supplementary 
Materials section.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2214-109X(22)00497-1
PMCID: PMC10009760
PMID: 36669807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests S Afzal reports support 
for the present manuscript from the Department of Community Medicine and 
Epidemiology, King Edward Medical University for performing duties as Faculty 
Member and Dean. S Afzal reports participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board 
or Advisory Board with Corona Expert Advisory Group and Dengue Expert Advisory 
Group; unpaid leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee, or 
advocacy groups with Pakistan Society of Community Medicine & Public Health, 
Pakistan Association of Medical Editors, and Pakistan Society of Medical 
Infectious Diseases; all outside the submitted work. Z Samad reports grants or 
contracts from Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (INV-021944 and INV-050389); 
Fogarty International Center of the National Institutes of Health (D43TW011625); 
National Institute for Health and Care Research; Yale University, Duke 
University; Certara; and PHRI; and payment from Cytokinetics as an advisor for 
participation in the Heart Failure Publication Committee meeting, outside the 
submitted work


667. Health Econ. 2023 May;32(5):1040-1063. doi: 10.1002/hec.4654. Epub 2023 Jan
20.

Estimating the value of life expectancy gains in Tanzania using the life 
satisfaction and model based approaches.

Da Costa S(1).

Author information:
(1)Herman Deleeck Centre for Social Policy, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, 
Belgium.

Policymakers in low and lower-middle income countries often face difficult 
trade-offs between saving lives and livelihoods, as exemplified by the COVID-19 
pandemic. Yet, evidence regarding the preferences of the population is often 
lacking in such settings. In this paper, I estimate the value of an additional 
year of life expectancy in Tanzania using information on subjective well-being 
and population mortality. More specifically, I combine age-sex specific 
subnational estimates of remaining life expectancy with data from a 
representative household survey, which includes information on consumption 
expenditures and life satisfaction. This information is then carried forward 
into a life satisfaction regression to estimate the trade-off between 
consumption and an additional year of life expectancy. The results imply that a 
representative individual from the sample would be willing to trade off around 
9% of their annual consumption expenditure to obtain an additional year of 
remaining life expectancy. The estimated values are close to those derived from 
calibrated models based on different elicitation methods, such as revealed 
preferences. This suggests that life satisfaction measures could be useful in 
deriving estimates of the value of longevity changes in environments where 
traditional methods, such as estimating compensating wage differentials, are 
difficult to apply.

© 2023 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.4654
PMID: 36670275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Pharmacoeconomics. 2023 Apr;41(4):395-411. doi: 10.1007/s40273-022-01238-3.
Epub  2023 Jan 20.

Population-Based Screening Using Low-Dose Chest Computed Tomography: A 
Systematic Review of Health Economic Evaluations.

Behr CM(1), Oude Wolcherink MJ(1), IJzerman MJ(1)(2)(3), Vliegenthart R(4), 
Koffijberg H(5).

Author information:
(1)Health Technology and Services Research, University of Twente, Enschede, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Cancer Health Services Research, Centre for Health Policy, Melbourne School 
of Population and Global Health, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.
(3)Erasmus School of Health Policy and Managament, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Radiology, University Medical Centre Groningen, University of 
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(5)Health Technology and Services Research, University of Twente, Enschede, The 
Netherlands. h.koffijberg@utwente.nl.

BACKGROUND: Chest low-dose computed tomography (LDCT) is a promising technology 
for population-based screening because it is non-invasive, relatively 
inexpensive, associated with low radiation and highly sensitive to lung cancer. 
To improve the cost-effectiveness of lung cancer screening, simultaneous 
screening for other diseases could be considered. This systematic review was 
conducted to analyse studies that published evidence on the cost-effectiveness 
of chest LDCT screening programs for different diseases.
METHODS: Scopus and PubMed were searched for English publications (1 January 
2011-22 July 2022) using search terms related to screening, computed tomography 
and cost-effectiveness. An additional search specifically searched for the 
cost-effectiveness of screening for lung cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease or cardiovascular disease. Included publications should present a full 
health economic evaluation of population screening with chest LDCT. The 
extracted data included the disease screened for, model type, country context of 
screening, inclusion of comorbidities or incidental findings, incremental costs, 
incremental effects and the resulting cost-effectiveness ratio amongst others. 
Reporting quality was assessed using the 2022 Consolidated Health Economic 
Evaluation Reporting Standards (CHEERS) checklist.
RESULTS: The search yielded 1799 unique papers, of which 43 were included. Most 
papers focused on lung cancer screening (n = 40), and three were on coronary 
calcium scoring. Microsimulation was the most commonly applied modelling type (n 
= 16), followed by life table analysis (n = 10) and Markov cohort models (n = 
10). Studies reflected the healthcare context of the US (n = 15), Canada (n = 
4), the UK (n = 3) and 13 other countries. The reported incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio ranged from US$10,000 to US$90,000/quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY) for lung cancer screening compared to no screening and was 
US$15,900/QALY-US$45,300/QALY for coronary calcium scoring compared to no 
screening.
DISCUSSION: Almost all health economic evaluations of LDCT screening focused on 
lung cancer. Literature regarding the health economic benefits of simultaneous 
LDCT screening for multiple diseases is absent. Most studies suggest LDCT 
screening is cost-effective for current and former smokers aged 55-74 with a 
minimum of 30 pack-years of smoking history. Consequently, more evidence on LDCT 
is needed to support further cost-effectiveness analyses. Preferably evidence on 
simultaneous screening for multiple diseases is needed, but alternatively, on 
single-disease screening.
REGISTRATION OF SYSTEMATIC REVIEW: Prospective Register of Ongoing Systematic 
Reviews registration CRD42021290228 can be accessed 
https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?RecordID=290228 .

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-022-01238-3
PMCID: PMC10020316
PMID: 36670332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: R. Vliegenthart is supported by an institutional 
research grant from Siemens Healthineers and reports speaker’s fees from Siemens 
Healthineers and Bayer. In addition, M.J. IJzerman has held advisory board roles 
with respect to Illumina, and his institution (University of Melbourne) receives 
unrestricted research funding from Illumina. H. Koffijberg, C.M. Behr and M.J. 
Oude Wolcherink declare that they have no conflict of interest.


669. Trials. 2023 Jan 20;24(1):48. doi: 10.1186/s13063-023-07080-y.

Evaluating the feasibility and preliminary efficacy of a Cognitive 
Occupation-Based programme for people with Multiple Sclerosis (COB-MS): an 
update to the protocol for a feasibility cluster-randomised controlled trial.

Dwyer CP(1), Alvarez-Iglesias A(2), Joyce R(1), Counihan TJ(3), Casey D(4), 
Hynes SM(5).

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Occupational Therapy, School of Health Sciences, National 
University of Ireland Galway, Galway, Ireland.
(2)Health Research Board Clinical Research Facility, National University of 
Ireland Galway, Galway, Ireland.
(3)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Galway, Galway, Ireland.
(4)Qualitative Research Trials Centre (QUESTS), School of Nursing & Midwifery, 
National University of Ireland Galway, Galway, Ireland.
(5)Discipline of Occupational Therapy, School of Health Sciences, National 
University of Ireland Galway, Galway, Ireland. sinead.hynes@nuigalway.ie.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive difficulties experienced by people with multiple sclerosis 
(MS) impact on quality of life and daily functioning, from childcare and work to 
social and self-care activities. The Cognitive Occupation-Based programme for 
people with MS (COB-MS) was developed as a holistic, individualised cognitive 
rehabilitation intervention to address the wide-ranging symptoms and functional 
difficulties that present in MS, including the ability to maintain employment, 
social activities, home management and self-care. The aim of the research is to 
evaluate the feasibility and preliminary efficacy of COB-MS for people with MS.
METHODS: Due to the impacts of COVID-19, trial activities that were planned for 
in-person delivery were completed remotely. One hundred and twenty people with 
MS will be assigned to participate in either the COB-MS programme or a 
treatment-as-usual, wait-list control group as part of this single-blind, 
cluster-randomised controlled feasibility and preliminary efficacy trial of the 
COB-MS programme. The COB-MS group will participate in an eight-session 
occupational-based cognitive rehabilitation programme over 9 weeks. The COB-MS 
intervention was planned for in-person delivery but was delivered online by 
occupational therapists to small groups of people with MS. The primary outcome 
measure is the Goal Attainment Scaling at 12 weeks. Participants will be 
assessed pre-intervention, post-intervention, 12 weeks post-intervention and 6 
months post-intervention. Qualitative evaluations of participants' perspectives 
will also be examined as part of the feasibility study. Data, due to be 
collected in-person, was collected online or by post. The original study design, 
including the statistical analysis plan, remains unchanged despite the shift to 
a remote trial conduct.
DISCUSSION: Results will provide recommendations for a future definitive trial 
of COB-MS, with respect to both feasibility and preliminary, clinical efficacy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN ISRCTN11462710 . Registered on 9 September 2019 and 
updated on 23 September 2020 to account for changes outlined here.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-023-07080-y
PMCID: PMC9854022
PMID: 36670485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


670. Antioxidants (Basel). 2023 Jan 4;12(1):124. doi: 10.3390/antiox12010124.

Reduced Ribose-5-Phosphate Isomerase A-1 Expression in Specific Neurons and Time 
Points Promotes Longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Shen WC(1), Yuh CH(2), Lu YT(1), Lin YH(1), Ching TT(3), Wang CY(4), Wang 
HD(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, National Tsing Hua University, HsinChu 300044, 
Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Molecular and Genomic Medicine, National Health Research 
Institutes, Zhunan, Mioali Country 35053, Taiwan.
(3)Institute of Biopharmaceutical Sciences, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung 
University, Taipei 112304, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Chang Gung Memory Hospital, Linkou Main Branch, 
Chang Gung University, Taoyuan 33305, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Life Science, National Tsing Hua University, HsinChu 300044, 
Taiwan.

Deregulation of redox homeostasis is often associated with an accelerated aging 
process. Ribose-5-phosphate isomerase A (RPIA) mediates redox homeostasis in the 
pentose phosphate pathway (PPP). Our previous study demonstrated that Rpi 
knockdown boosts the healthspan in Drosophila. However, whether the knockdown of 
rpia-1, the Rpi ortholog in Caenorhabditis elegans, can improve the healthspan 
in C. elegans remains unknown. Here, we report that spatially and temporally 
limited knockdown of rpia-1 prolongs lifespan and improves the healthspan in C. 
elegans, reflecting the evolutionarily conserved phenotypes observed in 
Drosophila. Ubiquitous and pan-neuronal knockdown of rpia-1 both enhance 
tolerance to oxidative stress, reduce polyglutamine aggregation, and improve the 
deteriorated body bending rate caused by polyglutamine aggregation. 
Additionally, rpia-1 knockdown temporally in the post-developmental stage and 
spatially in the neuron display enhanced lifespan. Specifically, rpia-1 
knockdown in glutamatergic or cholinergic neurons is sufficient to increase 
lifespan. Importantly, the lifespan extension by rpia-1 knockdown requires the 
activation of autophagy and AMPK pathways and reduced TOR signaling. Moreover, 
the RNA-seq data support our experimental findings and reveal potential novel 
downstream targets. Together, our data disclose the specific spatial and 
temporal conditions and the molecular mechanisms for rpia-1 knockdown-mediated 
longevity in C. elegans. These findings may help the understanding and 
improvement of longevity in humans.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox12010124
PMCID: PMC9854458
PMID: 36670987

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


671. Brain Sci. 2022 Dec 22;13(1):26. doi: 10.3390/brainsci13010026.

Neurological Erdheim-Chester Disease Manifesting with Subacute or Progressive 
Cerebellar Ataxia: Novel Case Series and Review of the Literature.

Riso V(1)(2), Nicoletti TF(1)(3), Rossi S(1), Vita MG(4), Alessia P(1), Di 
Natale D(1), Silvestri G(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Neurology Section, Università Cattolica del Sacro 
Cuore, 20123 Rome, Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Neuroscienze, UOC Neurologia, Ospedale Belcolle, 01100 
Viterbo, Italy.
(3)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Zurich, 8091 Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(4)UOC Neurologia, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli IRCCS, 20123 
Rome, Italy.

Neurological involvement is relatively common in Erdheim-Chester disease (ECD), 
a rare clonal disorder of histiocytic myeloid precursors characterized by 
multisystem involvement. In ECD patients, neurological symptoms can occur either 
at onset or during the disease course and may lead to various degrees of 
neurological disability or affect patients' life expectancy. The clinical 
neurological presentation of ECD often consists of cerebellar symptoms, showing 
either a subacute or progressive course. In this latter case, patients manifest 
with a slowly progressive cerebellar ataxia, variably associated with other 
non-specific neurological signs, infratentorial leukoencephalopathy, and 
cerebellar atrophy, possibly mimicking either adult-onset degenerative or 
immune-mediated ataxia. In such cases, diagnosis of ECD may be particularly 
challenging, yet some peculiar features are helpful to address it. Here, we 
retrospectively describe four novel ECD patients, all manifesting cerebellar 
symptoms at onset. In two cases, slow disease progression and associated brain 
MRI features simulated a degenerative cerebellar ataxia. Three patients received 
a definite diagnosis of histiocytosis, whereas one case lacked histology 
confirmation, although clinical diagnostic features were strongly suggestive. 
Our findings regarding existing literature data focused on neurological ECD will 
be also discussed to highlight those diagnostic clues helpful to address 
diagnosis.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci13010026
PMCID: PMC9856726
PMID: 36672008

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


672. Cancers (Basel). 2023 Jan 6;15(2):375. doi: 10.3390/cancers15020375.

Predictive Biomarkers for Immune-Related Endocrinopathies following Immune 
Checkpoint Inhibitors Treatment.

Shalit A(1), Sarantis P(1), Koustas E(1)(2), Trifylli EM(1)(2), Matthaios D(3), 
Karamouzis MV(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, 11527 Athens, Greece.
(2)First Department of Internal Medicine, 417 Army Share Fund Hospital, 11521 
Athens, Greece.
(3)Oncology Department, General Hospital of Rhodes, 85100 Rhodes, Greece.

In recent years, in the context of the increase in the life expectancy of cancer 
patients, special attention has been given to immunotherapy and, indeed, to 
immune checkpoint inhibitors. The use of immune checkpoint inhibitors has 
increased rapidly, and approximately 40% of cancer patients are eligible for 
this treatment. Although their impact is valuable on cancer treatment, immune 
checkpoint inhibitors come with side effects, known as immune-related adverse 
effects. These can affect many systems, including cutaneous, musculoskeletal, 
cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, endocrine, neural, and pulmonary systems. In 
this review, we focus on immune-related endocrinopathies that affect around 10% 
of all treated patients. Endocrine dysfunctions can manifest as hypophysitis, 
thyroid dysfunction, hypoparathyroidism, insulin-deficient diabetes mellitus, 
and primary adrenal insufficiency. Currently, there are multiple ongoing 
clinical trials that aim to identify possible predictive biomarkers for 
immune-related adverse effects. The design of those clinical trials relies on 
collecting a variety of biological specimens (tissue biopsy, blood, plasma, 
saliva, and stool) at baseline and regular intervals during treatment. In this 
review, we present the predictive biomarkers (such as antibodies, hormones, 
cytokines, human leukocyte antigens, and eosinophils) that could potentially be 
utilized in clinical practice in order to predict adverse effects and manage 
them appropriately.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers15020375
PMCID: PMC9856539
PMID: 36672324

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


673. Cancers (Basel). 2023 Jan 7;15(2):400. doi: 10.3390/cancers15020400.

A Phase II, Open-Label Clinical Trial of Intranasal Ketamine for Depression in 
Patients with Cancer Receiving Palliative Care (INKeD-PC Study).

Rosenblat JD(1), deVries FE(2), Doyle Z(1), McIntyre RS(1), Rodin G(1), 
Zimmermann C(1), Mak E(1), Hannon B(1), Schulz-Quach C(1), Kindy AA(1), Patel 
Z(1), Li M(1).

Author information:
(1)University Health Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5S 2E8, 
Canada.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Netherlands Cancer Institute, 1066 CX Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.

Antidepressants require several weeks for the onset of action, a lag time that 
may exceed life expectancy in palliative care. Ketamine has demonstrated rapid 
antidepressant effects, but has been minimally studied in cancer and palliative 
care populations. Herein, the objective was to determine the feasibility, 
safety, tolerability and preliminary efficacy of intranasal racemic ketamine for 
major depressive disorder (MDD) in patients with advanced cancer. We conducted a 
single-arm, open-label phase II trial at the Princess Margaret Cancer Centre in 
Toronto, ON, Canada. Participants with advanced cancer with moderate to severe 
MDD received three flexible doses of intranasal (IN) ketamine (50−150 mg) over a 
one-week period. The primary efficacy outcome was an antidepressant response and 
remission rates as determined by the Montgomery−Åsberg Depression Rating Scale 
(MADRS) from baseline to the Day 8 primary endpoint. Twenty participants were 
enrolled in the trial, receiving at least one dose of IN ketamine, with fifteen 
participants receiving all three doses. The Day 8 antidepressant response (MADRS 
decreased by >50%) and remission (MADRS < 10 on Day 8) rates were high at 70% 
and 45%, respectively. Mean MADRS scores decreased significantly from baseline 
(mean MADRS of 31, standard deviation 7.6) to Day 8 (11 +/− 7.4) with an overall 
decrease of 20 points (p < 0.001). Antidepressant effects were partially 
sustained in the second week in the absence of additional ketamine doses, with a 
Day 14 mean MADRS score of 14 +/− 9.9. Common adverse effects included fatigue, 
dissociation, nausea, dysgeusia and headaches; almost all adverse effects were 
mild and transient, resolving within 2 h of each ketamine dose with one dropout 
related to adverse effects (negative dissociative episode). Given these 
promising findings, larger, controlled trials are merited.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers15020400
PMCID: PMC9857323
PMID: 36672348

Conflict of interest statement: Joshua D Rosenblat has received research grant 
support from the Canadian Institute of Health Research (CIHR), Physician 
Services Inc (PSI) Foundation, Labatt Brain Health Network, Brain and Cognition 
Discovery Foundation (BCDF), Canadian Cancer Society, Canadian Psychiatric 
Association, Academic Scholars Award, American Psychiatric Association, American 
Society of Psychopharmacology, University of Toronto, University Health Network 
Centre for Mental Health, Joseph M. West Family Memorial Fund and Timeposters 
Fellowship, and industry funding for speaker/consultation/research fees from 
iGan, Boehringer Ingelheim, Janssen, Allergan, Lundbeck, Sunovion and COMPASS. 
He is the Chief Medical and Scientific Officer of Braxia Scientific and the 
Medical Director of the Canadian Rapid Treatment Centre of Excellence (Braxia 
Health). Roger McIntyre has received research grant support from 
CIHR/GACD/National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) and the Milken 
Institute; and speaker/consultation fees from Lundbeck, Janssen, Alkermes, 
Neumora Therapeutics, Boehringer Ingelheim, Sage, Biogen, Mitsubishi Tanabe, 
Purdue, Pfizer, Otsuka, Takeda, Neurocrine, Sunovion, Bausch Health, Axsome, 
Novo Nordisk, Kris, Sanofi, Eisai, Intra-Cellular, NewBridge Pharmaceuticals, 
Viatris, Abbvie and Atai Life Sciences. Roger McIntyre is a CEO of Braxia 
Scientific Corp. Christian Schulz-Quach receives royalties from Springer 
International. All other authors declare no conflicts of interest.


674. Biomedicines. 2023 Jan 5;11(1):138. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines11010138.

Poor Cognitive Agility Conservation in Obese Aging People.

Pardo-Moreno T(1)(2), Mohamed-Mohamed H(1), Rivas-Dominguez A(3), Garcia-Morales 
V(4), Garcia-Lara RA(5), Suleiman-Martos S(6), Bermudez-Pulgarin B(3), 
Ramos-Rodriguez JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Health Sciences (Ceuta), University of 
Granada, 51001 Ceuta, Spain.
(2)Instituto Nacional de Gestión Sanitaria (INGESA), Primary Health Care, 51003 
Ceuta, Spain.
(3)Department of Celular Biology, University of Seville, 41009 Seville, Spain.
(4)Department of Biomedicine, Biotechnology and Public Health, Physiology Area, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Cádiz, Pl. Falla, 9, 11003 Cádiz, Spain.
(5)UGC Orgiva, Granada-South Helth Management Area, Andalusian Health Service, 
18420 Granada, Spain.
(6)Servicio Andaluz de Salud, Av. Del Sur 11, 18014 Granada, Spain.

Life expectancy has been boosted in recent decades at expenses of increasing the 
age-associated diseases. Dementia, for its incidence, stands out among the 
pathologies associated with aging. The exacerbated cognitive deterioration 
disables people from carrying out their daily lives autonomously and this 
incidence increases exponentially after 65 years of age. The etiology of 
dementia is a miscellaneous combination of risk factors that restrain the 
quality of life of our elderly. In this sense, it has been established that some 
metabolic pathologies such as obesity and diabetes act as a risk factor for 
dementia development. In contrast, a high educational level, as well as moderate 
physical activity, have been shown to be protective factors against cognitive 
impairment and the development of dementia. In the present study, we have 
evaluated the metabolic composition of a population between 60-90 years old, 
mentally healthy and with high academic degrees. After assessing agility in 
mental state, we have established relationships between their cognitive 
abilities and their body composition. Our data support that excess body fat is 
associated with poorer maintenance of cognition, while higher percentages of 
muscle mass are associated with the best results in the cognitive tests.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines11010138
PMCID: PMC9855664
PMID: 36672646

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


675. Biomedicines. 2023 Jan 8;11(1):159. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines11010159.

The Many Faces of Immune Activation in HIV-1 Infection: A Multifactorial 
Interconnection.

Mazzuti L(1), Turriziani O(2), Mezzaroma I(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Sapienza University of Rome, 
00185 Rome, Italy.
(2)Laboratory of Virology, Department of Molecular Medicine, Sapienza University 
of Rome, 00185 Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Translational and Precision Medicine, Sapienza University of 
Rome, 00185 Rome, Italy.

Chronic immune activation has a significant role in HIV-1 disease pathogenesis 
and CD4+ T-cell depletion. The causes of chronic inflammation and immune 
activation are incompletely understood, but they are likely multifactorial in 
nature, involving both direct and indirect stimuli. Possible explanations 
include microbial translocation, coinfection, and continued presence of 
competent replicating virus. In fact, long-term viral suppression treatments are 
unable to normalize elevated markers of systemic immune activation. Furthermore, 
high levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines increase susceptibility to premature 
aging of the immune system. The phenomenon of "inflammaging" has begun to be 
evident in the last decades, as a consequence of increased life expectancy due 
to the introduction of cART. Quality of life and survival have improved 
