severity. Overall, PROs with mobocertinib showed clinically meaningful 
improvement in lung cancer-related symptoms, with health-related quality of life 
maintained despite changes in some adverse event symptom scales.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm12010112
PMCID: PMC9821270
PMID: 36614913

Conflict of interest statement: Maria Rosario Garcia Campelo: Honoraria—Takeda, 
AstraZeneca, Roche, Pfizer, Bristol Myers Squibb, and Boehringer Ingelheim; 
speakers bureau and/or advisory role—Takeda, AstraZeneca, Roche, Pfizer, Bristol 
Myers Squibb, Boehringer Ingelheim, Janssen, Novartis, and Merck, Sharp & Dohme; 
Caicun Zhou: Honoraria or advisory role—Lilly China, Sanofi, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Roche, Merck, Sharp & Dohme, Qilu, Hengrui, Innovent Biologics, 
C-Stone, LUYE Pharma, TopAlliance Biosciences Inc., and Amoy Diagnostics; Suresh 
S. Ramalingam: Honoraria or advisory role—Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Merck, Lilly, Genentech/Roche, GlaxoSmithKline, and Takeda; research 
support to institution—Amgen, Advaxis, Bristol Myers Squibb, Genmab, 
AstraZeneca, and Takeda; Huamao M. Lin: Employment—Takeda; Tae Min Kim: 
Honoraria or advisory role—AstraZeneca, Boryung, F. Hoffmann-La Roche/Genentech, 
Janssen, Novartis, Regeneron, Sanofi, Takeda, and Yuhan; research funding 
outside this work—AstraZeneca–Korea Health Industry Development Institute; 
Gregory J. Riely: Travel—Merck, Sharp & Dohme; research funding—all to 
institution: Novartis, Genentech/Roche, Millennium, GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, 
Infinity Pharmaceuticals, ARIAD, Mirati Therapeutics, and Merck; Tarek Mekhail: 
Speakers bureau—AstraZeneca, Bristol Myers Squibb, Lilly, Merck, and Takeda; 
advisory role—AstraZeneca and Lilly; Danny Nguyen: Publication fees—Takeda; Erin 
Goodman: Employment—Takeda; Minal Mehta: Former employment—Takeda; Sanjay Popat: 
Research funding—all to institution: Boehringer Ingelheim, Epizyme, Bristol 
Myers Squibb, Clovis Oncology, Roche, Lilly, Daiichi Sankyo, Janssen, Turning 
Point Therapeutics, and Takeda; honoraria—Boehringer Ingelheim, AstraZeneca, 
Roche, Takeda, and Chugai Pharma; consulting or advisory role—Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Bayer, Beigene, Blueprint, Daiichi Sankyo, GlaxoSmithKline, Incyte, 
Janssen, Lilly, Merck, Takeda, Seattle Genetics, Turning Point Therapeutics, 
Xcovery, Roche, Novartis, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Bristol Myers Squibb, Merck, 
Sharp & Dohme, Guardant Health, and AbbVie; Pasi A. Jänne: Consulting—Araxes 
Pharmaceuticals, ARIAD/Takeda, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Chugai, 
Ignyta, Lilly, Loxo Oncology, Merrimack, Mirati Therapeutics, Pfizer, Roche, 
Novartis, Voronoi, Daiichi Sankyo, SFJ Pharmaceuticals, and Biocartis; research 
support—Astellas, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Daiichi Sankyo, Lilly, and 
Puma Biotechnology; stock ownership—Gatekeeper and Loxo Oncology; postmarketing 
royalties from Dana-Farber Cancer Institute–owned patent on EGFR mutations 
licensed to LabCorp.


509. J Clin Med. 2022 Dec 27;12(1):214. doi: 10.3390/jcm12010214.

Can the Norton Scale Score Be Used as an Adjunct Tool for Implantable 
Defibrillator Patient Selection? A Retrospective Single-Center Cohort Study.

Ben Asher Kestin S(1)(2), Israel A(3), Leshem E(1)(4), Milman A(1)(4), Sabbag 
A(1)(4), Goldengerg I(5), Nof E(1)(4), Beinart R(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv 6997801, Israel.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine C, Meir Medical Center, Kfar-Saba 4428164, 
Israel.
(3)Leumit Research Institute, Leumit Health Services, Tel-Aviv 647378, Israel.
(4)Leviev Heart Center, Sheba Medical Center, Ramat Gan 5266202, Israel.
(5)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine and Dentistry, University of 
Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY 14642, USA.

(1) Background: Implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) have become the 
standard of care in the prevention of sudden cardiac death, yet studies have 
shown that competing causes of death may limit ICD benefits. The Norton scale is 
a pressure ulcer risk score shown to have prognostic value in other fields. The 
purpose of this study was to assess the use of the Norton scale as an aid for 
ICD patient selection; (2) Methods: The study was comprised of consecutive 
patients who underwent defibrillator implantation at Sheba Medical Center 
between 2008 and 2016. A competing risk analysis was performed to assess the 
likelihood of death prior to device therapy; (3) Results: 695 patients were 
included. A total of 59 (8.5%) patients had low admission Norton scale score 
(ANSS) (≤14), 81 (11.7%) had intermediate ANSS (15−17), and the remainder 
(79.8%) had high (18−20) ANSS. The cumulative probability of all-cause mortality 
within one year of ICD implantation in patients with low ANSS was 30%, compared 
with 20% and 7% among the intermediate- and high-ANSS groups, respectively. 
Moreover, the one-year mortality rate without ICD therapy in low-ANSS patients 
was over four-fold compared with that of high-ANSS patients (33% versus 7%, p < 
0.0001); (4) Conclusions: The Norton scale could be a useful additional tool in 
predicting the life expectancy of ICD candidates, thereby improving patient 
selection.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm12010214
PMCID: PMC9821316
PMID: 36615015

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


510. Nutrients. 2022 Dec 29;15(1):165. doi: 10.3390/nu15010165.

Diet Management of Patients with Chronic Kidney Disease in Bariatric Surgery.

Potrykus M(1), Czaja-Stolc S(2), Małgorzewicz S(2), Proczko-Stepaniak M(1), 
Dębska-Ślizień A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of General, Endocrine and Transplant Surgery, Medical University 
of Gdansk, 80-211 Gdańsk, Poland.
(2)Department of Clinical Nutrition, Medical University of Gdansk, 80-211 
Gdańsk, Poland.
(3)Department of Nephrology, Transplantology and Internal Medicine, Medical 
University of Gdansk, 80-952 Gdańsk, Poland.

Morbid obesity is considered a civilization disease of the 21st century. Not 
only does obesity increase mortality, but it is also the most important cause of 
the shortening life expectancy in the modern world. Obesity is associated with 
many metabolic abnormalities: dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia, cardiovascular 
diseases, and others. An increasing number of patients diagnosed with chronic 
kidney disease (CKD) are obese. Numerous additional disorders associated with 
impaired kidney function make it difficult to conduct slimming therapy and may 
also be associated with a greater number of complications than in people with 
normal kidney function. Currently available treatments for obesity include 
lifestyle modification, pharmacotherapy, and bariatric surgery (BS). There are 
no precise recommendations on how to reduce excess body weight in patients with 
CKD treated conservatively, undergoing chronic dialysis, or after kidney 
transplantation. The aim of this study was to analyze studies on the bariatric 
treatment of obesity in this group of people, as well as to compare the 
recommendations typical for bariatrics and CKD.

DOI: 10.3390/nu15010165
PMCID: PMC9824280
PMID: 36615822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


511. Plants (Basel). 2022 Dec 26;12(1):120. doi: 10.3390/plants12010120.

Antimicrobial Properties of Different Hop (Humulus lupulus) Genotypes.

Kolenc Z(1), Langerholc T(2), Hostnik G(1), Ocvirk M(3), Štumpf S(1), Pintarič 
M(2), Košir IJ(3), Čerenak A(4), Garmut A(2), Bren U(1)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Physical Chemistry and Chemical Thermodynamics, Faculty of 
Chemistry and Chemical Technology, University of Maribor, Smetanova Ulica 17, 
SI-2000 Maribor, Slovenia.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and 
Biotechnology, Faculty of Agriculture and Life Sciences, University of Maribor, 
Pivola 10, 2311 Hoče, Slovenia.
(3)Department for Agrochemistry and Brewing, Slovenian Institute of Hop Research 
and Brewing, Cesta Žalskega Tabora 2, SI-3310 Žalec, Slovenia.
(4)Department for Plants, Soil and the Environment, Slovenian Institute of Hop 
Research and Brewing, Cesta Žalskega Tabora 2, SI-3310 Žalec, Slovenia.
(5)Department of Applied Natural Sciences, Faculty of Mathematics, Natural 
Sciences and Information Technologies, University of Primorska, Glagoljaška 
Ulica 8, SI-6000 Koper, Slovenia.
(6)Institute of Environmental Protection and Sensors, Beloruska Ulica 7, SI-2000 
Maribor, Slovenia.

The antimicrobial activity of hop extracts obtained from different hop genotypes 
were investigated against Staphylococcus aureus and Lactobacillus acidophilus. 
In this study the pure xanthohumol, purified β-acids rich fraction, as well as 
α-acids with β-acids rich fraction were used to test antimicrobial activity 
against Staphylococcus aureus and Lactobacillus acidophilus; whereby, the 
antimicrobial activity of different hop extracts against Lactobacillus 
acidophilus was studied for the first time. Microbial susceptibility to purified 
hydroacetonic extracts from different hop varieties was investigated by the 
broth microdilution assay to determine the minimum inhibitory concentration 
(MIC) and the minimum bactericidal concentration (MBC). The hop hydroacetonic 
extracts were more effective against Staphylococcus aureus than against 
Lactobacillus acidophilus. Strong inverse correlations of MIC and MBC values 
were obtained with xanthohumol, cohumulone, n+adhumulone, colupulone and 
n+adlupulone contents, suggesting that the identified chemical hop compounds are 
directly responsible for antimicrobial effects. Moreover, the effect of the 
growth medium strength on the MIC values of hop extracts against Staphylococcus 
aureus was systematically investigated for the first time. The current study 
also reveals the effect of different hop extracts on Staphylococcus aureus, 
which responds to their presence by lag phase extension and generation time 
prolongation.

DOI: 10.3390/plants12010120
PMCID: PMC9824274
PMID: 36616249

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


512. Plants (Basel). 2022 Dec 27;12(1):140. doi: 10.3390/plants12010140.

Fern Spores-"Ready-to-Use" Standards for Plant Genome Size Estimation Using a 
Flow Cytometric Approach.

Tang SK(1), Lee PH(2), Liou WT(3)(4), Lin CH(5), Huang YM(2), Kuo LY(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biology, National Tsing Hua University, 
Hsinchu City 300, Taiwan.
(2)Taiwan Forestry Research Institute, 53 Nan-Hai Road, Taipei City 100, Taiwan.
(3)Experimental Forest, College of Bio-Resources and Agriculture, National 
Taiwan University, Nantou County 557, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Life Sciences, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung City 
402, Taiwan.
(5)Taoyuan District Agricultural Research and Extension Station, Council of 
Agriculture, Executive Yuan, Taoyuan City 327, Taiwan.

Spores and pollen of plants were used as flow cytometric materials to 
efficiently infer genome sizes. Given this advantage, they hold great potential 
for various flow cytometric applications, particularly as plant genome size 
standards. To develop such novel standards, we investigated conditions of 
pretreatment (bead vortex), buffer, and reliable genome sizes of three fern 
spore collections-Cibotium taiwanense "Kuo4395", Sphaeropteris lepifera 
"Tang0001", and Alsophila metteniana "Lee s.n.". Additionally, up to 30 year-old 
spore collections were obtained from herbarium specimens and from samples stored 
at 4 °C; their spore nuclei were extracted, and the quality and quantity of 
these nucleus extractions through storage ages were examined. Nuclear 
extractions with a longer bead vortex duration or lower spore/bead ratio 
generally resulted in a higher recovered quantity but a lower quality or purity. 
For each spore standard, the protocol optimization was determined by their 
performance in bead vortex conditions, and a 1C genome size was further inferred 
by linear regression (C. taiwanense "Kuo4395" = 5.058 pg; S. lepifera "Tang0001" 
= 7.117 pg; and A. metteniana "Lee s.n." = 19.379 pg). Spore nucleus quality and 
quantity are significantly negatively correlated with storage ages. Nuclear 
extractions of 10-year-old refrigerated spores remained qualified as a genome 
size standard; however, none of the herbarium spore collections fit such 
criteria. Our study is the first to develop and apply dried and refrigerated 
spores for genome size standards. These standards are ready to use, easy to 
manipulate, and feature long-term storage in comparison with traditionally used 
standards of fresh leaves.

DOI: 10.3390/plants12010140
PMCID: PMC9824788
PMID: 36616269

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


513. Adv Gerontol. 2022;35(5):668-678.

[Integration of the elderly into the information space: research case of 
Saint-Petersburg.].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Vidiasovа LA(1)(2), Kuznetsova EM(1), Grigoryeva IA(1).

Author information:
(1)Sociological Institute of RAS of the Federal Research Sociological Center of 
RAS, 25/14 str. 7th Krasnoarmeyskaya, St. Petersburg190000, Russian Federation, 
e-mail: soc28@yandex.ru.
(2)ITMO University, 49 Kronverkskiy pr., St. Petersburg 197101, Russian 
Federation.

In recent decades, the world's population has been aging due to the fact that 
life expectancy is increasing, and the birth rate in developed countries is 
falling below the level of simple reproduction. In many countries, people retire 
and move «down the social ladder», losing both their acquired status and income 
level. However, in the XXI century, a new kind of inequality has appeared - 
digital. Its starting point is the low digital literacy of the elderly, although 
at present the situation does not seem as dramatic as 12-15 years ago. In St. 
Petersburg, training for the elderly has been conducted since the beginning of 
the 2000s, both NGOs and CCSS, it is available and in most cases, free of 
charge, but, as our research highlighted in this article has shown, a 
significant part of the elderly still do not have digital skills. In general, in 
Russia, according to Rosstat, in 2020 there were only 13.5% active Internet 
users over the age of 60. The lack of integration into the digital space has 
come to be seen as evidence of the vulnerability of the elderly, especially 
during and after the CODID-19 pandemic. The paper presents the results of a 
three-component study, including an online survey of St. Petersburg residents 
about the use of city electronic services, as well as interviews with 
representatives of organizations that train older people in ICT skills and a 
pilot survey of the use of digital devices by older people - voice assistants. 
As a result, data were obtained on the demand for electronic communication 
channels and electronic urban services, as well as "access barriers" to 
mastering digital skills from the point of view of teachers of courses for the 
elderly. In conclusion, a conclusion is made about the relationship between 
mastering digital skills and the inclusion of the elderly in the communication 
space.

Publisher: В последние десятилетия в мире идет процесс старения населения за 
счёт того, что продолжительность жизни увеличивается, а рождаемость в развитых 
странах падает ниже уровня простого воспроизводства. Во многих странах люди, 
выходя на пенсию, перемещаются «вниз по социальной лестнице», теряя как 
приобретенный статус, так и уровень доходов. Однако в XXI в. появился новый вид 
неравенства — цифровое. Его отправной точкой является низкая цифровая 
грамотность пожилых людей, хотя в настоящее время ситуация не кажется столь 
драматичной, как 12–15 лет назад. В Петербурге обучение пожилых ведется с начала 
2000-х гг., как НКО, так и КЦСОН, оно доступно и в большинстве случаев 
бесплатно, но, как показали наши исследования, значительная часть пожилых 
цифровых навыков до сих пор не имеет. В целом в России, по последним данным 
Росстата, в 2020 г. активных пользователей интернета старше 60 лет было всего 
13,5%. Отсутствие интеграции в цифровое пространство стало рассматриваться как 
свидетельство уязвимости пожилых, особенно во время пандемии CODID-19 и после. В 
статье представлены результаты исследования, включающего онлайн-опрос жителей 
Петербурга об использовании городских электронных сервисов, а также дополненного 
интервью с представителями организаций, проводящих обучение пожилых 
информационно-коммуникативно-технологическим навыкам, и пилотным опросом 
использования пожилыми цифровых устройств — голосовых ассистентов. В результате 
были получены данные о востребованности электронных каналов коммуникации и 
электронных городских сервисов, а также «барьерах доступа» к овладению цифровыми 
навыками с точки зрения преподавателей курсов для пожилых. В заключение делается 
вывод о связи между овладением цифровыми навыками и включением пожилых в 
коммуникационное пространство.

PMID: 36617321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Demography. 2023 Feb 1;60(1):15-40. doi: 10.1215/00703370-10419487.

Racial Inequality in the Prevalence, Degree, Extension, and Permeation of 
Incarceration in Family Life.

Yi Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Massachusetts Amherst, Amherst, MA, 
USA.

The prevalence, consequences, and unequal distribution of parental and own 
incarceration in the United States are well documented. However, much of our 
knowledge of the reach of the carceral state into family life is focused on 
incarceration of a parent, romantic partner, or child, to the exclusion of other 
important relationships. Using data from the Family History of Incarceration 
Study, a nationally representative survey of U.S. adults (N = 2,029), this study 
introduces novel descriptive measures that provide a more comprehensive picture 
of the demography and racially unequal distribution of family incarceration: 
degree, generational extension, and permeation. This analysis shows that Black 
adults in the United States are not only more likely to have experienced family 
incarceration but are also more likely to have had more family members 
incarcerated (5.3 members vs. ≤2.8 members for adults of other racial/ethnic 
groups) and to have had family members from more generations ever incarcerated 
(1.7 generations vs. ≤1.1 generations for those of other groups). Further, the 
stability of these estimates across model specifications underscores the 
importance of interrogating long-standing approaches to the analysis of linkages 
between race, the criminal legal system, and family life and the investigation 
of racialized systems and social inequality more broadly.

Copyright © 2023 The Author.

DOI: 10.1215/00703370-10419487
PMID: 36617870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Comput Struct Biotechnol J. 2022 Dec 15;21:495-505. doi: 
10.1016/j.csbj.2022.12.017. eCollection 2023.

One-day thermal regime extends the lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Huang J(1)(2)(3), Wang K(4), Wang M(4), Wu Z(1), Xie G(4), Peng Y(5), Zhang 
Y(5), Zhang X(1), Shao Z(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Department of Biochemistry, 
School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200438, PR China.
(2)Institute of Geriatric Cardiovascular Disease, Chengdu Medical College, 
Chengdu 610000, Sichuan, PR China.
(3)Guangdong Cardiovascular Institute, Guangdong Provincial People's Hospital, 
Guangdong Academy of Medical Sciences, Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of 
Pathogenesis, Targeted Prevention and Treatment of Heart Disease, Guangzhou 
510080, Guangdong, PR China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology and 
MOE Frontiers Center for Brain Science, Institutes of Brain Science, Zhongshan 
Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, PR China.
(5)National Clinical Research Center for Geriatrics, State Key Laboratory of 
Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, Sichuan, 
PR China.

Environmental factors, including temperature, can modulate an animal's lifespan. 
However, their underlying mechanisms remain largely undefined. We observed a 
profound effect of temperature on the aging of Caenorhabditis elegans (C. 
elegans) by performing proteomic analysis at different time points (young adult, 
middle age, and old age) and temperature conditions (20 °C and 25 °C). 
Importantly, although at the higher temperature, animals had short life spans, 
the shift from 20 °C to 25 °C for one day during early adulthood was beneficial 
for protein homeostasis since; it decreased protein synthesis and increased 
degradation. Consistent with our findings, animals who lived longer in the 25 °C 
shift were also more resistant to high temperatures along with oxidative and UV 
stresses. Furthermore, the lifespan extension by the 25 °C shift was mediated by 
three important transcription factors, namely FOXO/DAF-16, HSF-1, and HIF-1. We 
revealed an unexpected and complicated mechanism underlying the effects of 
temperature on aging, which could potentially aid in developing strategies to 
treat age-related diseases. Our data are available in ProteomeXchange with the 
identifier PXD024916.

© 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.csbj.2022.12.017
PMCID: PMC9813578
PMID: 36618984

Conflict of interest statement: We declare that we have no financial and 
personal relationships with other people or organizations that can 
inappropriately influence our work.


516. Heliyon. 2022 Dec 24;8(12):e12596. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e12596. 
eCollection 2022 Dec.

Impact of gamma radiation, potassium sorbate and low temperature on shrimp 
(Penaeus monodon) preservation.

Islam MS(1), Hossain A(2), Islam M(2), Munshi MK(2), Hussain MS(2), Chandra Das 
K(3), Ahmed I(3), Islam Khan MS(1), Huque R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Microbiology, Patuakhali Science and Technology 
University, Patuakhali, 8602, Bangladesh.
(2)Food Safety and Quality Analysis Division (FSQAD), Institute of Food and 
Radiation Biology, Atomic Energy Research Establishment, GPO Box-3787, Savar, 
Dhaka, 1000, Bangladesh.
(3)Molecular Biotechnology Division, National Institute of Biotechnology, Savar, 
Ashulia, Bangladesh.

The objective this study was to assess the effect of gamma radiation and 2% 
potassium sorbate with low temperature (4 °C) for shrimp (Penaeus monodon) 
preservation. Fresh samples were prepared for treatment with gamma radiation at 
1.0 and 1.5 kGy doses and potassium sorbate (2%) soaked for 30 s (PS 30 s) and 
60 s (PS 60 s). Organoleptic score (OS), biochemical composition and 
microbiological analysis were performed to evaluate the shelf-life extension and 
quality changes during the storage periods. Data showed that combination 
treatment of gamma irradiation at 1.5 kGy with low temperature was the most 
effective in extending shelf-life of shrimp. The isolated bacteria associated 
with shrimp samples were identified through PCR technique. Antibiotic 
sensitivity test was examined using ten commonly used antibiotics against these 
pathogenic isolates. Gentamicin and Imipenem showed up to 50% resistance on 
Gram-positive (Bacillus cereus and Staphylococcus aureus). This study indicates 
that gamma irradiation treatment with low temperature was most effective way for 
shelf-life extension of shrimp which might reduce the wastage of this important 
nutritional source.

© 2022 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e12596
PMCID: PMC9816779
PMID: 36619455

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


517. Front Pediatr. 2022 Dec 21;10:1062390. doi: 10.3389/fped.2022.1062390. 
eCollection 2022.

Parents' dilemma: A therapeutic decision for children with spinal muscular 
atrophy (SMA) type 1.

Boursange S(1)(2)(3), Araneda M(4), Stalens C(5), Desguerre I(6)(7)(8), 
Barnerias C(6)(7)(8), Nougues MC(6)(7)(9), Isapof A(6)(7)(9), Quijano-Roy 
S(6)(7)(10), Blu Genestine N(11), Ouillade L(12), Martinez Jalilie M(13), 
Castiglioni C(14), Boespflug-Tanguy O(6)(7)(15)(16), Gargiulo M(1)(3); SMAPAR 
Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Université Paris Cité, Laboratoire de Psychologie Clinique, Psychopathologie, 
Psychanalyse, Boulogne-Billancourt, France.
(2)Université Paris Cité, Ecole Doctorale ED-261, "Cognition, Conduct and Human 
Behavior", Boulogne-Billancourt, France.
(3)Institut de Myologie, Hôpital de la Pitié-Salpêtrière, APHP-Paris, France.
(4)Université Paris Cité, CRPMS, F-75013 Paris, France.
(5)French Association against Myopathies (AFM), Public Health and Medical 
Research Department, Evry, France.
(6)Centre de Référence des Maladies Neuromusculaires, Centre Nord-Est-Ile de 
France, Réseau National des Maladies Neuromusculaires, FILNEMUS, France.
(7)European Reference Center Network (Euro-NMD ERN), Paris, France.
(8)Pediatric Neurology Department, AP-HP Hôpital Necker Enfants Malades, Paris, 
France.
(9)Department of Paediatric Neurology, Armand Trousseau Hospital, Assistance 
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, France.
(10)APHP Université Paris Saclay, Neuromuscular Unit Pediatric Neurology and ICU 
Department, Raymond Poincarré Hospital, Garches, France.
(11)ECLAS association, Together against SMA type 1, Saint Denis Le Gast, France.
(12)SMA Interest Group - AFM Téléthon, Evry, France.
(13)Unidad de Investigación, Escuela de Medicina, Universidad Finis Terrae, 
Santiago, Chile.
(14)Neuropediatric Department, Las Condes Clinic, Santiago Chile, Chile.
(15)I-Motion, Institute of Myology, Armand Trousseau Hospital, Assistance 
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, France.
(16)Université Paris Cité, UMR 1141, Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: SMA type 1 is a severe neurodegenerative disorder that, in the 
absence of curative treatment, leads to death before 1 year of age without 
ventilatory support. Three innovative therapies are available to increase life 
expectancy.
PURPOSE: (i) To increase knowledge about parents' experiences with their 
decision to have opted for an innovative therapy; (ii) to assess the middle-term 
psychological consequences in the parents' lives.
METHODS: We used an in-depth interview; a self-administrated questionnaire and 
self-report scales (BDI-II, STAI-Y, PSI-SF, SOC-13, PBA, DAS 16 and FICD). We 
compared parents hesitant before the decision to parents who were not-hesitant 
and the group of parents whose child was treated with gene therapy (GT) to 
parents whose child received another innovative therapy.
MAIN RESULTS: We included n = 18 parents of 13 children. Parent's mean age was 
34.7 (±5.2), child's average age was 44.3 months (±38.0). Retrospectively, most 
parents felt involved by doctors in decision-making on treatment, they felt 
their point of view was considered and were satisfied with the effects of the 
treatment. The group of parents "non-hesitant" was more depressed (p < 0.001), 
more anxious (p = 0.022) and had higher parental stress (p = 0.026) than the 
group of "hesitant" parents; the group of "GT-treated" parents was more 
depressed (p = 0.036) than the group of parents with "other therapy". 
Qualitative data highlights revealed: the need to save the child's life at all 
costs; the fear of coping with end of life and palliative care, the high value 
of perceived physician confidence in the treatment, the hope that the child will 
acquire autonomy or be cured. At the time of the decision, no parents felt they 
fully understood all of the issues regarding therapy and the disease.
CONCLUSION: Hesitating before making a decision did not predispose parents to 
depression and anxiety. The narratives suggest that the parents faced a dilemma 
regarding their child's health in an urgent context. The decision was not final, 
and parents will continue to think about it throughout the care process.

© 2022 Boursange, Araneda, Stalens, Desguerre, Barnerias, Nougues, Isapof, 
Quijano-Roy, Blu Genestine, Ouillade, Martinez Jalilie, Castiglioni, 
Boespflug-Tanguy, Gargiulo and The SMAPAR Study Group.

DOI: 10.3389/fped.2022.1062390
PMCID: PMC9811815
PMID: 36619514

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


518. Front Public Health. 2022 Dec 21;10:1029375. doi:
10.3389/fpubh.2022.1029375.  eCollection 2022.

Waterborne diseases and ethnic-related disparities: A 10 years nationwide 
mortality and burden of disease analysis from Ecuador.

Ortiz-Prado E(1), Simbaña-Rivera K(1), Cevallos G(1), Gómez-Barreno L(1), 
Cevallos D(1), Lister A(2), Fernandez-Naranjo R(1), Ríos-Touma B(3), 
Vásconez-González J(1)(4), Izquierdo-Condoy JS(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)One Health Research Group, Faculty of Health Science, Universidad de Las 
Américas, Quito, Ecuador.
(2)University Hospital Southampton NHS FT, University of Southampton, 
Southampton, United Kingdom.
(3)Biodiversity, Environment and Health Research Group (BIOMAS), Faculty of 
Engineering and Applied Sciences, Universidad de Las Américas, Quito, Ecuador.
(4)Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad Latina de Costa Rica, San 
Pedro, Costa Rica.
(5)Health Management and Research Area, Universidad Internacional 
Iberoamericana, Arecibo, Puerto Rico.

BACKGROUND: Despite worldwide progress in terms of clean water supply, 
sanitation, and hygiene knowledge, some middle and most of low-income countries 
are still experiencing many diseases transmitted using unsafe water and the lack 
of sanitation.
METHODS: To understand the impact of all waterborne diseases (WBD) registered in 
Ecuador. We performed a population-based analysis of all cases and deaths due to 
WBD in Ecuador based on the national public databases of hospital discharges as 
a proxy of incidence, in-hospital mortality, and countrywide general mortality 
rates from 2011 to 2020.
RESULTS: In Ecuador, mestizos (mixed European and Indigenous American ancestry) 
had the greatest morbidity rate (141/100,000), followed by indigenous 
(63/100,000) and self-determined white patients (21/100,000). However, in terms 
of mortality, indigenous population have the greatest risk and rates, having a 
790% additional mortality rate (2.6/100,000) than the reference group 
(self-determined white populations) at 0.29/100,000. The burden of disease 
analysis demonstrated that indigenous had the highest burden of disease caused 
by WBD with 964 YLL per every 100,000 people while mestizos have 360 YYL per 
100,000 and self-determined white Ecuadorians have 109 YYL per 100,000.
CONCLUSIONS: In Ecuador, waterborne diseases (WBD) are still a major public 
health problem. We found that indigenous population had higher probability of 
getting sick and die due to WBD than the rest of the ethnic groups in Ecuador. 
We also found that younger children and the elderly are more likely to be 
admitted to the hospital due to a WBD. These epidemiological trends are probably 
associated with the lower life expectancy found among Indigenous than among the 
rest of the ethnic groups, who die at least, 39 years earlier than the 
self-determined white populations, 28 years earlier than Afro-Ecuadorians and 12 
years earlier than the mestizos.

Copyright © 2022 Ortiz-Prado, Simbaña-Rivera, Cevallos, Gómez-Barreno, Cevallos, 
Lister, Fernandez-Naranjo, Ríos-Touma, Vásconez-González and Izquierdo-Condoy.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.1029375
PMCID: PMC9811003
PMID: 36620267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


519. Front Public Health. 2022 Dec 22;10:1086388. doi:
10.3389/fpubh.2022.1086388.  eCollection 2022.

Spatial-temporal analysis of urban-rural differences in the development of 
elderly care institutions in China.

Li X(1), Li C(2), Huang Y(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Economics and Management, Sanming University, Sanming, China.
(2)School of Management, Shanghai University of Engineering Science, Shanghai, 
China.
(3)School of Geographic Sciences, Nantong University, Nantong, China.

BACKGROUND: Aging is both a sign of rising life expectancy per capita and social 
progress, and a challenge for society. Due to the decline in physiological 
functions, the rate of illness has increased significantly, leading to a rise in 
demand for healthcare, life care and other elderly care. With the overlapping 
impact of an aging population, advanced aging, empty nesting families and the 
weakening of traditional elderly care functions, the issue of elderly care for 
the empty nesters, the elderly alone and the disabled has become more prominent 
and has become a focal point of concern for all sectors of society. As an 
important supplement to the elderly care service system, institutional care, 
together with home care, community care and rural care, are mutually 
complementary.
METHODS: The study establishes a panel database of urban and rural elderly-care 
institutions in 276 cities from 2010 to 2016, and uses comprehensive 
measurements to reveal the spatial-temporal changes of urban and rural elderly 
care institutions in China.
RESULTS: First, in terms of spatial pattern, the overall score of elderly care 
institutions in urban areas shows a "double-high" spatial pattern of higher 
scores in coastal areas than inland areas, and higher scores in urban areas than 
in rural areas. In terms of the differences in the scores of secondary 
indicators, the eastern urban areas have higher scores than the rural areas for 
the indicators of facilities construction and nursing staff of elderly 
institutions, while the eastern rural areas have higher scores than their urban 
counterparts for the indicators of service recipients of elderly institutions. 
Second, in terms of temporal change, there is a clear "urban progress and rural 
regression" in the evolution of China's elderly care institutions. Third, in 
terms of spatial and temporal evolution, there is a clear spatial 
autocorrelation in the composite scores of urban and rural elderly care 
institutions in China, and the spatial autocorrelation of the composite scores 
of elderly care institutions shows a clustering pattern.
DISCUSSION: The contradiction between the limited ability to pay of the elderly 
people staying in elderly care institutions and the huge demand for elderly care 
services is bound to affect the sustainability of the development of public 
elderly care institutions in both urban and rural areas. Due to historical 
factors, the marketisation of elderly care institutions in China started late 
and the marketisation of elderly care is not high. As the population ages, 
China's elderly-care institutions have begun to transform from public 
institutions of a welfare nature to those with some market mechanisms, but the 
overall transformation has been slow, resulting in the service guarantee system 
of elderly-care institutions lagging far behind the actual needs of the elderly. 
The long-term development of elderly care institutions must introduce market 
mechanisms, enhance the endogenous dynamics of elderly care institutions, 
correctly handle the relationship between fairness and efficiency of elderly 
care services, and improve the professionalism, income and treatment of elderly 
care staff while compensating for the lack of development of elderly care 
institutions and the inadequate layout of space, so as to continuously improve 
the service quality of elderly care institutions.

Copyright © 2022 Li, Li and Huang.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.1086388
PMCID: PMC9815020
PMID: 36620273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


520. Front Public Health. 2022 Dec 23;10:1046773. doi:
10.3389/fpubh.2022.1046773.  eCollection 2022.

DALY trend and predictive analysis of COPD in China and its provinces: Findings 
from the global burden of disease study.

Zhai M(1)(2), Jiang Q(3), Liu S(3), Long J(4), Zhang D(1), Ren C(3), Gong Y(3), 
Li Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Nursing Teaching and Research Section, The Second Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)Xiangya Nursing School, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(3)Department of General Surgery, The Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(4)Department of Respiratory, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medicine 
University, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is the most common 
chronic respiratory disease in the world, especially in China. Few studies have 
explored the trend of COPD in China and its provinces. This study aimed to 
demonstrate and predict the trend of COPD DALY in China and its provinces based 
on the global burden of disease (GBD) data.
METHODS: The data on COPD disability-adjusted life year (DALY) were collected 
from GBD 2017, GBD 2019, and the National Bureau of Statistics of China. The 
age-standardized rate (ASR) was used to evaluate the trend of COPD DALY by 
gender, age, and risk factors in China and its provinces. In addition, the trend 
of COPD considering the aging population in the next 10 years was also 
predicted.
RESULTS: In China, the COPD DALY was 20.4 million in 2017, which decreased to 
24.16% from 1990 to 2017. Most provinces showed a downward trend, with the 
exception of Taiwan which increased by 127.78%. The ASR of DALY was 1445.53 per 
100,000 people in 2017 and demonstrated a significant decrease. Among all 
provinces, only Taiwan (97.78%) and Hubei (2.21%) demonstrated an increased 
trend of ASR. In addition, Tibet ranked third with a decline of 56.95%, although 
its ASR was the highest in 1990. Smoking and air pollution were the main risk 
factors for COPD and varied with regions, gender, and age. The proportion of 
COPD DALY attributable to smoking was higher in the middle-aged and elderly male 
population and did not decrease in China. Moreover, the ASR attributable to air 
pollution of the elderly decreased significantly in China. Socio-demographic 
index (SDI) and educational level were also found to be related to ASR. By 
predicting the ASR trend in the next 10 years, we found that the ASR 
attributable to smoking might increase significantly among men. The ASR 
attributable to air pollution showed a significant decrease in women. 
Unfortunately, ASR attributable to second-hand smoke was found to increase in 
women.
CONCLUSION: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is the leading contributor to 
the burden of global diseases. Although China and its provinces demonstrated a 
downward trend of COPD DALY, some provinces still faced challenges. Moreover, 
ASR attributable to risk factors was different in regions, gender, age, and 
years. The predicted trend of COPD was also different. Therefore, more targeted 
strategies should be formulated to reduce the burden of COPD in China and its 
provinces.

Copyright © 2022 Zhai, Jiang, Liu, Long, Zhang, Ren, Gong and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.1046773
PMCID: PMC9816410
PMID: 36620296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


521. Epidemiol Infect. 2023 Jan 9;151:e19. doi: 10.1017/S0950268823000031.

Burden of infectious disease studies in Europe and the United Kingdom: a review 
of methodological design choices.

Charalampous P(1), Haagsma JA(1), Jakobsen LS(2), Gorasso V(3)(4), Noguer I(5), 
Padron-Monedero A(5), Sarmiento R(5)(6), Santos JV(7)(8)(9), McDonald SA(10), 
Plass D(11), Wyper GMA(12), Assunção R(13), von der Lippe E(14), Ádám B(15), 
AlKerwi A(16), Arabloo J(17), Baltazar AL(18), Bikbov B(19), Borrell-Pages 
M(20), Brus I(1), Burazeri G(21), Chaintoutis SC(22), Chen-Xu J(23)(24), 
Chkhaberidze N(25), Cilovic-Lagarija S(26), Corso B(27), Cuschieri S(28), Di 
Bari C(4), Dopelt K(29)(30), Economou M(31), Emeto TI(32)(33)(34), Fantke P(35), 
Fischer F(36), Freitas A(7)(8), García-González JM(37), Gazzelloni F(38), 
Gissler M(39)(40)(41)(42), Gkitakou A(43), Gulmez H(44), Gunes S(45)(46), Haller 
S(47), Haneef R(48), Hincapié CA(49)(50)(51), Hynds P(52), Idavain J(53), Ilic 
M(54), Ilic I(55), Isola G(56), Kabir Z(57), Kamusheva M(58), Kolkhir P(59)(60), 
Konar NM(61), Kostoulas P(62), Kulimbet M(63)(64), La Vecchia C(65), Lauriola 
P(66), Levi M(67), Majer M(68), Mechili EA(69)(70), Monasta L(71), Mondello 
S(72), Muñoz Laguna J(49)(50)(51), Nena E(73), Ng ESW(74), Nguewa P(75), 
Niranjan V(76), Nola IA(68), O'Caoimh R(77)(78), Obradović M(79), Pallari E(80), 
Peyroteo M(81), Pinheiro V(82)(83), Pranjic N(84), Reina Ortiz M(85), Riva 
S(86), Santoso CMA(87), Santric Milicevic M(88), Schmitt T(89), Speybroeck 
N(90), Sprügel M(91), Steiropoulos P(92), Stevanovic A(88), Thygesen LC(93), 
Tozija F(94), Unim B(95), Bektaş Uysal H(96), Varga O(97), Vasic M(98)(99), 
Vieira RJ(7)(8), Yigit V(100), Devleesschauwer B(4)(101), Pires SM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(2)National Food Institute, Technical University of Denmark, Lyngby, Denmark.
(3)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Ghent University, Ghent, 
Belgium.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Sciensano, Brussels, Belgium.
(5)National School of Public Health, Carlos III Institute of Health, Madrid, 
Spain.
(6)Medicine School, University of Applied and Environmental Sciences, Bogota, 
Colombia.
(7)CINTESIS@RISE - Centre for Health Technology and Services Research, Health 
Research Network, Faculty of Medicine of the University of Porto, Porto, 
Portugal.
(8)MEDCIDS - Department of Community Medicine, Information and Health Decision 
Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(9)Public Health Unit, Agrupamentos de Centro de Saúde Grande Porto V - Porto 
Ocidental, Administração Regional de Saúde do Norte, Porto, Portugal.
(10)Centre for Infectious Disease Control, National Institute for Public Health 
and the Environment (RIVM), Bilthoven, The Netherlands.
(11)Department for Exposure Assessment and Environmental Health Indicators, 
German Environment Agency, Berlin, Germany.
(12)School of Health & Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.
(13)Food and Nutrition Department, National Institute of Health Dr. Ricardo 
Jorge, Lisbon, Portugal.
(14)Department of Epidemiology and Health Monitoring, Robert Koch Institute, 
Berlin, Germany.
(15)Institute of Public Health, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, United 
Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.
(16)Directorate of Health, Service Epidemiology and Statistics, Luxembourg, 
Luxembourg.
(17)Health Management and Economics Research Center, Health Management Research 
Institute, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(18)Scientific-Pedagogical Unit of Dietetics and Nutrition, Coimbra Health 
School, Polytechnic Institute of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(19)Dipartimento di Politiche per la Salute, Istituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche 
Mario Negri IRCCS, Milan, Italy.
(20)Cardiovascular Program ICCC, Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica Sant Pau 
(IIB-Sant Pau), Barcelona, Spain.
(21)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of Medicine, 
Tirana, Albania.
(22)Diagnostic Laboratory, School of Veterinary Medicine, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(23)NOVA National School of Public Health, Public Health Research Centre, 
Universidade NOVA de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.
(24)Public Health Unit, Primary Health Care Cluster Baixo Mondego, Coimbra, 
Portugal.
(25)Department of Medical Statistics, National Center for Disease Control and 
Public Health of Georgia, Georgia, Georgia.
(26)Institute for Public Health FB&H, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
(27)Neuroscience Institute, National Research Council, Padova, Italy.
(28)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine and Surgery, University of Malta, 
Msida, Malta.
(29)Department of Public Health, Ashkelon Academic College, Ashkelon, Israel.
(30)Department of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health, Faculty 
of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer Sheva, Israel.
(31)Department of Nursing, School of Health Sciences, Cyprus University of 
Technology, Limassol, Cyprus.
(32)Public Health & Tropical Medicine, College of Public Health, Medical and 
Veterinary Sciences, James Cook University, Townsville, Australia.
(33)World Health Organization Collaborating Center for Vector-Borne and 
Neglected Tropical Diseases, College of Public Health, Medical and Veterinary 
Sciences, James Cook University, Townsville, Australia.
(34)Australian Institute of Tropical Health and Medicine, James Cook University, 
Townsville, Australia.
(35)Quantitative Sustainability Assessment, Department of Environmental and 
Resource Engineering, Technical University of Denmark, Lyngby, Denmark.
(36)Institute of Public Health, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, 
Germany.
(37)Department of Sociology, Universidad Pablo de Olavide, Seville, Spain.
(38)Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, London, UK.
(39)Department of Knowledge Brokers, Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare 
(THL), Helsinki, Finland.
(40)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institute, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(41)Academic Primary Health Care Centre, Stockholm, Sweden.
(42)Research Centre for Child Psychiatry and Invest Research Flagship, 
University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(43)Department of Internal Medicine and Epidemiology, Erasmus MC University 
Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(44)Department of Family Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, İzmir Democracy 
University, Izmir, Turkey.
(45)Department of Multidisciplinary Molecular Medicine, Graduate Institute, 
Ondokuz Mayis University, Samsun, Turkey.
(46)Department of Medical Biology, Medical Faculty, Ondokuz Mayis University, 
Samsun, Turkey.
(47)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Robert Koch Institute, 
Berlin, Germany.
(48)Department of Non-Communicable Diseases and Injuries, Santé Publique France, 
Saint-Maurice, France.
(49)EBPI-UZWH Musculoskeletal Epidemiology Research Group, University of Zurich 
and Balgrist University Hospital, Zurich, Switzerland.
(50)Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Prevention Institute (EBPI), University of 
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(51)University Spine Centre Zurich (UWZH), Balgrist University Hospital, 
University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(52)Environmental Sustainability and Health Institute, Technological University 
Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(53)Department of Health Statistics, National Institute for Health Development, 
Tallinn, Estonia.
(54)Department of Epidemiology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of 
Kragujevac, Kragujevac, Serbia.
(55)Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(56)Department of General Surgery and Surgical-Medical Specialties, School of 
Dentistry, University of Catania, Catania, Italy.
(57)Public Health & Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University College 
Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(58)Department of Organization & Economics of Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Medical University of Sofia, Sofia, Bulgaria.
(59)Institute of Allergology, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Freie 
Universität Berlin, and Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(60)Fraunhofer Institute for Translational Medicine and Pharmacology ITMP, 
Allergology and Immunology, Berlin, Germany.
(61)Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, Faculty of Medicine, 
Kirsehir Ahi Evran University, Kirsehir, Turkey.
(62)Laboratory of Epidemiology and Artificial Intelligence, Faculty of Public 
Health, University of Thessaly, Thessaly, Greece.
(63)Health Research Institute, Al Farabi Kazakh National University, Almaty, 
Kazakhstan.
(64)Atchabarov Scientific Research Institute of Fundamental Medicine, 
Asfendiyarov Kazakh National Medical University, Almaty, Kazakhstan.
(65)Department of Clinical Sciences and Community Health, University of Milan, 
Milan, Italy.
(66)Italian Network of Sentinel Physicians for the Environment (RIMSA), 
International Society Doctors for the Environment (ISDE), Federazione Nazione 
Ordine dei Medici (FNOMCeO), Arezzo, Italy.
(67)Epidemiology Unit, Department of Prevention, Local Health Authority Tuscany 
Centre, Florence, Italy.
(68)Andrija Štampar School of Public Health, School of Medicine, University of 
Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia.
(69)Clinic of Social and Family Medicine, School of Medicine, University of 
Crete, Crete, Greece.
(70)Department of Healthcare, Faculty of Public Health, University of Vlora, 
Vlora, Albania.
(71)Institute of Maternal, Child Health - IRCCS Burlo Garofolo, Trieste, Italy.
(72)Department of Biomedical and Dental Sciences and Morphofunctional Imaging, 
University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(73)Laboratory of Social Medicine, Medical School, Democritus University of 
Thrace, Alexandroupolis, Greece.
(74)Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(75)Department of Microbiology and Parasitology, ISTUN Institute of Tropical 
Health, IdiSNA (Navarra Institute for Health Research), University of Navarra, 
Pamplona, Spain.
(76)School of Public Health, Physiotherapy and Sport Sciences, University 
College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(77)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Mercy University Hospital, Grenville 
Place, Cork City, Ireland.
(78)Department of Gerontology and Rehabilitation, University College Cork, St 
Finbarr's Hospital, Douglas road, Cork City, Ireland.
(79)Department of Preventive and Pediatric Dentistry, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Banja Luka, Bosnia, Herzegovina.
(80)Health Innovation Network, Minerva House, Montague Cl, London, UK.
(81)Comprehensive Health Research Centre, NOVA Medical School, Universidade NOVA 
de Lisboa, Lisboa, Portugal.
(82)Public Health Unit, Matosinhos Local Health Unit, Matosinhos, Portugal.
(83)CINTESIS - Centre for Health Technology and Services Research, Faculty of 
Medicine of the University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(84)Department of Occupational Medicine, School of Medicine, University of 
Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
(85)School of Public and Population Health, Boise State University, Boise, USA.
(86)Department of Psychology and Pedagogic Science, St Mary's University, 
London, UK.
(87)Faculty of Public Health, University of Debrecen, Debrecen, Hungary.
(88)Institute of Social Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, 
Belgrade, Serbia.
(89)Department of International Health, Care and Public Health Research 
Institute - CAPHRI, Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences, Maastricht 
University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(90)Institute of Health and Society (IRSS), Université catholique de Louvain, 
Brussels, Belgium.
(91)Department of Neurology, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, 
Erlangen, Germany.
(92)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Medical School, Democritus University of 
Thrace, Alexandroupolis, Greece.
(93)National Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(94)Faculty of Medicine, Saints Cyril and Methodius University of Skopje, 
Skopje, North Macedonia.
(95)Department of Cardiovascular, Endocrine-Metabolic Diseases and Aging, 
Istituto Superiore Di Sanità, Rome, Italy.
(96)Department of Internal Medicine, Adnan Menderes University School of 
Medicine, Aydin, Turkey.
(97)Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Debrecen, Debrecen, Hungary.
(98)Faculty of Dentistry Pancevo, University Business Academy in Novi Sad, 
Pancevo, Serbia.
(99)Institute of Public Health of Serbia Dr Milan Jovanović Batut, Belgrade, 
Serbia.
(100)Department of Health Management, Suleyman Demirel University, Isparta, 
Turkey.
(101)Department of Translational Physiology, Infectiology and Public Health, 
Ghent University, Merelbeke, Belgium.

This systematic literature review aimed to provide an overview of the 
characteristics and methods used in studies applying the disability-adjusted 
life years (DALY) concept for infectious diseases within European Union 
(EU)/European Economic Area (EEA)/European Free Trade Association (EFTA) 
countries and the United Kingdom. Electronic databases and grey literature were 
searched for articles reporting the assessment of DALY and its components. We 
considered studies in which researchers performed DALY calculations using 
primary epidemiological data input sources. We screened 3053 studies of which 
2948 were excluded and 105 studies met our inclusion criteria. Of these studies, 
22 were multi-country and 83 were single-country studies, of which 46 were from 
the Netherlands. Food- and water-borne diseases were the most frequently studied 
infectious diseases. Between 2015 and 2022, the number of burden of infectious 
disease studies was 1.6 times higher compared to that published between 2000 and 
2014. Almost all studies (97%) estimated DALYs based on the incidence- and 
pathogen-based approach and without social weighting functions; however, there 
was less methodological consensus with regards to the disability weights and 
life tables that were applied. The number of burden of infectious disease 
studies undertaken across Europe has increased over time. Development and use of 
guidelines will promote performing burden of infectious disease studies and 
facilitate comparability of the results.

DOI: 10.1017/S0950268823000031
PMCID: PMC9990389
PMID: 36621004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Micron. 2023 Mar;166:103412. doi: 10.1016/j.micron.2023.103412. Epub 2023
Jan 5.

The sperm structure of the diving beetles Stictonectes optatus (Seidlitz, 1887) 
and Scarodytes halensis (Fabricius, 1787) (Dytiscidae, Hydroporinae) with 
evidence of a spermatostyle in the sperm conjugation.

Mercati D(1), Fanciulli PP(2), Lupetti P(3), Dallai R(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Siena, Italy. Electronic address: 
david.mercati@unisi.it.
(2)Department of Life Sciences, University of Siena, Italy. Electronic address: 
paolo.fanciulli@unisi.it.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, University of Siena, Italy. Electronic address: 
pietro.lupetti@unisi.it.
(4)Department of Life Sciences, University of Siena, Italy. Electronic address: 
romano.dallai@unisi.it.

The structure of the male genital organs and spermiogenesis of two diving 
beetles, Stictonectes optatus and Scarodytes halensis were studied for the first 
time. S. optatus shows unifollicular testes consisting of a long tubule apically 
forming a globular structure. The deferent duct epithelia show a secretory 
activity involved in the spermatostyle organization. They are connected with two 
very large accessory glands. Sc. halensis has a more common structure of the 
male genital apparatus with unifollicular cylindrical testes and very long 
deferent ducts. Sc. halensis accessory glands are smaller than those of S. 
optatus. The sperm structure in both species is characterized by a small 
acrosome, a flattened nucleus with a lateral extension containing a centriole 
from which a long flagellum originates. Both species exhibit sperm conjugation 
with long sperm bundles showing nuclei orderly arranged in sperm-heads stacks 
and free flagella. In addition, S. optatus has a thick layer of secretion 
surrounds these sperm-head stacks. Such a secretion is considered a 
spermatostyle. This finding represents the first record about the presence of 
this structure among Dytiscidae. In the flagellum, a typical axoneme with a 
9 + 9 + 2 microtubular complex, and two mitochondrial derivatives are present in 
both species. Those of S. optatus have a peculiar shape with the apical side, in 
cross-section, displaying pointed corners. Two small accessory bodies are 
located between the axoneme and the two mitochondrial derivatives.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micron.2023.103412
