and drug price.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of nadofaragene firadenovec will depend upon 
its price. Pembrolizumab, although not cost-effective in our base-case analysis, 
is an important alternative in this population with an unmet medical need. 
Comparative trials of these treatments are warranted to better estimate 
cost-effectiveness.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2022.12.005
PMID: 36529422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. PeerJ. 2022 Dec 13;10:e14356. doi: 10.7717/peerj.14356. eCollection 2022.

Experience of COVID-19 disease and fear of the SARS-CoV-2 virus among Polish 
students.

Turska E(#)(1), Stępień-Lampa N(#)(2), Grzywna P(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychology, University of Silesia, Katowice, Silesian 
Voivodeship, Poland.
(2)Institute of Political Science, University of Silesia, Katowice, Silesian 
Voivodeship, Poland.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The SARS-CoV-2 virus pandemic has significantly affected individuals 
and entire societies. It has caused a number of adverse consequences for public 
health. It has contributed to lower average life expectancy and significantly 
reduced the sense of health security. It has affected not only physical but also 
mental health. COVID-19 infections have become so common in many countries, 
including Poland, that almost every member of society has either experienced it 
themselves or has a family member or friend who have been affected by the 
disease. The investigations undertaken in the article concern the fear of 
COVID-19 infection among Polish university students, determined by the 
experience of the disease -whether direct or among loved ones.
METHODS: An online survey was conducted with 851 students. It took place between 
1 and 15 March 2021, a year after detection of the first case of infection with 
the virus in Poland. The aim of the study was to find out about the relationship 
between the experience of COVID-19 disease (whether direct or among people close 
to the respondent) and fear of this disease among university students in Poland. 
The analysis used intergroup comparison tests (Mann-Whitney U Test and t-test).
RESULTS: The results indicate that the level of fear of COVID-19 among Polish 
university students was low (M = 1.98; SD = .49), with women (M = 2.04; SD = 
.75) presenting statistically higher (t (620.46) = 3.05; p = .002) fear than men 
(M = 1.87; SD = .74). The situation of the respondent having had a close person 
fall ill with COVID-19 or die as a result of coronavirus infection was found to 
be significant for the level of experienced fear of COVID-19 in the studied 
group (t (469.46) = -2.98; p = .003).
CONCLUSIONS: The significantly higher level of fear in the group of young people 
who knew someone close with severe (fatal) COVID-19 disease indicates that 
psychological support may be more significant for such people than for 
individuals who have not experienced such a situation. A similar conclusion can 
be formulated taking into account the gender criterion, as the results make it 
possible to predict that women expect more support in a pandemic situation.

©2022 Turska et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.14356
PMCID: PMC9756872
PMID: 36530393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing 
interests.


248. Front Public Health. 2022 Dec 2;10:1095825. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.1095825.
 eCollection 2022.

Editorial: National health services: Efficiency, welfare and economy.

Valls Martínez MDC(1), Montero JM(2), Biggeri A(3).

Author information:
(1)Mediterranean Research Center on Economics and Sustainable Development, 
Economics and Business Department, University of Almería, Almería, Spain.
(2)Department of Political Economy and Public Finance, Economic and Business 
Statistics, and Economic Policy, University of Castilla-La Mancha, Toledo, 
Spain.
(3)Department of Cardio-Thoracic-Vascular Science and Public Health, University 
of Padua, Padua, Italy.

Comment on
    Editorial on the Research Topic National health services: Efficiency, 
welfare and economy.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.1095825
PMCID: PMC9755878
PMID: 36530661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


249. Front Oncol. 2022 Nov 30;12:1032443. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2022.1032443.
eCollection  2022.

Gastrectomy for cancer beyond life expectancy. A comprehensive analysis of 
oncological gastric surgery in Germany between 2008 and 2018.

Berlet M(1), Weber MC(1), Neumann PA(1), Friess H(1), Reim D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technical University of 
Munich, Munich, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Major gastric surgery for distal esophageal and gastric cancer has 
a strong impact on the quality of life, morbidity, and mortality. Especially in 
elderly patients reaching their life expectancy, the responsible use and extent 
of gastrectomy are imperative to achieve a balance between harm and benefit. In 
the present study, the reimbursement database (German Diagnosis Related Groups 
(G-DRG) database) of the Statistical Office of the Federal Republic of Germany 
was queried to evaluate the morbidity and mortality of patients aged above or 
below 75 years following gastrectomy.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: All patients in Germany undergoing subtotal gastrectomy 
(ST), total gastrectomy (T), or gastrectomy combined with esophagectomy (TE) for 
gastric or distal esophageal cancer (International Statistical Classification of 
Diseases and Related Health Problems Version 10 (ICD-10) C15.2, C15.5, and 
C16.0-C16.9) between 2008 and 2018 were included. Intraoperative and 
postoperative complications as well as comorbidities, in-hospital mortality, and 
the extent of surgery were assessed by evaluating ICD-10 and operation and 
procedure key (Operationen- und Prozedurenschlüssel) codes.
RESULTS: A total of 67,389 patients underwent oncologic gastric resection in 
Germany between 2008 and 2018. In total, 21,794 patients received ST, 41,825 
received T, and 3,466 received TE, respectively. In 304 cases, the combinations 
of these, in fact, mutually exclusive procedures were encoded. The proportion of 
patients aged 75 years or older was 51.4% (n = 11,207) for ST, 32.6% (n = 
13,617) for T, and 28.1% (n = 973) for TE. The in-hospital mortality of elderly 
patients was significantly increased in all three groups. (p < 0.0001) General 
complications such as respiratory failure (p = 0.0054), acute renal failure (p < 
0.0001), acute myocardial failure (p < 0.0001), and the need for resuscitation 
(ST/T: p < 0.0001/TE: p = 0.0218) were significantly increased after any kind of 
gastrectomy. Roux-en Y was the most commonly applied reconstruction technique in 
both young and elderly patients. Regarding lymphadenectomy, systematic D2 
dissection was performed less frequently in older patients than in the younger 
collective in the case of ST and T as well as D3 dissection. Peritonectomy and 
hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy were uncommon in elderly patients 
alongside ST and T compared to younger patients (p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: The clinical outcome of major oncological gastric surgery is highly 
dependent on a patient's age. The elderly show a tremendously increased 
likelihood of in-hospital mortality and morbidity.

Copyright © 2022 Berlet, Weber, Neumann, Friess and Reim.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2022.1032443
PMCID: PMC9747770
PMID: 36531049

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


250. Front Plant Sci. 2022 Nov 30;13:995031. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2022.995031. 
eCollection 2022.

Multi-omics analyses reveal new insights into nutritional quality changes of 
alfalfa leaves during the flowering period.

Liu Y(1), Fan W(2), Cheng Q(3), Zhang L(4), Cai T(4), Shi Q(4), Wang Z(4), Chang 
C(1), Yin Q(1), Jiang X(1), Jin K(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Forage Cultivation, Processing and High Efficient 
Utilization of Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Institute of Grassland 
Research of Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Hohhot, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Grassland Resources, Ministry of Education, Inner Mongolia 
Agricultural University, Hohhot, China.
(3)College of Animal Science, Guizhou University, Guiyang, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Efficient Utilization of Forage, Inner Mongolia 
Agricultural and Animal Husbandry Technology Extension Center, Hohhot, China.

High-quality alfalfa is an indispensable resource for animal husbandry and 
sustainable development. Its nutritional quality changes dramatically during its 
life cycle and, at present, no molecular mechanisms for nutrient metabolic 
variation in alfalfa leaves at different growth stages have been clearly 
reported. We have used correlation and network analyses of the alfalfa leaf 
metabolome, proteome, and transcriptome to explore chlorophyll, flavonoid, and 
amino acid content at two development stages: budding stage (BS) and full-bloom 
stage (FBS). A high correlation between the expression of biosynthetic genes and 
their metabolites revealed significant reductions in metabolite content as the 
plant matured from BS to FBS. l-Glutamate, the first molecule of chlorophyll 
biosynthesis, decreased, and the expression of HemA, which controls the 
transformation of glutamyl-tRNA to glutamate 1-semialdehyde, was down-regulated, 
leading to a reduction in leaf chlorophyll content. Flavonoids also decreased, 
driven at least in part by increased expression of the gene encoding CYP75B1: 
flavonoid 3'-monooxygenase, which catalyzes the hydroxylation of 
dihydroflavonols and flavonols, resulting in degradation of flavonoids. 
Expression of NITRILASE 2 (NIT2) and Methyltransferase B (metB), which regulate 
amino acid metabolism and influence the expression of genes of the 
glycolysis-TCA pathway, were down-regulated, causing amino acid content in 
alfalfa leaves to decrease at FBS. This study provides new insights into the 
complex regulatory network governing the content and decrease of chlorophyll, 
amino acids, flavonoids, and other nutrients in alfalfa leaves during 
maturation. These results further provide a theoretical basis for the generation 
of alfalfa varieties exhibiting higher nutritional quality, high-yield 
cultivation, and a timely harvest.

Copyright © 2022 Liu, Fan, Cheng, Zhang, Cai, Shi, Wang, Chang, Yin, Jiang and 
Jin.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2022.995031
PMCID: PMC9748345
PMID: 36531350

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


251. Br Paramed J. 2022 Dec 1;7(3):51-58. doi: 10.29045/14784726.2022.12.7.3.51.

Creating virtual communities of practice for ambulance paramedics: a qualitative 
evaluation of the use of Project ECHO in end-of-life care.

Hodge A(1), Manson J(2), McTague L(2), Kyeremateng S(2), Taylor P(2).

Author information:
(1)Yorkshire Ambulance Service NHS Trust ORCID iD: 
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2632-2249.
(2)St. Luke's Hospice Sheffield.

INTRODUCTION: Ambulance services play a key role in the recognition and care of 
patients nearing their end of life, yet are expected to recognise and manage 
these complex presentations often with limited education. Paramedics operate 
across large geographical areas, meaning education delivery is challenging. 
Yorkshire Ambulance Service implemented Project Extension for Community 
Healthcare Outcomes (ECHO), which is the creation of virtual communities of 
practice to address this problem and increase access to specialist supervision, 
education and sharing of practice. We undertook a service evaluation of the 
programme and interviewed paramedics about their experiences with ECHO.
METHODS: Semi-structured interviews were conducted with eight ambulance 
clinicians who took part in the end-of-life care (EoLC) ECHO programme. Thematic 
analysis and coding was undertaken to identify and develop the emerging themes.
RESULTS: This study identified three key themes: programme structure, factors 
influencing engagement and professional impact. The provision of a virtual 
community of practice through Project ECHO was a unique and highly valued 
experience, which was accessible and allowed for networking, peer support and 
sharing of practice. The concept of a ripple effect was reported in 
disseminating learning across the wider team.
CONCLUSION: The development of virtual communities of practice as a novel 
educational intervention has the potential to transform clinical supervision and 
ongoing education for ambulance clinicians who are often isolated by the nature 
of ambulance services that cover large regions.

© 2022 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.29045/14784726.2022.12.7.3.51
PMCID: PMC9730191
PMID: 36531799

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


252. Front Immunol. 2022 Nov 30;13:1054539. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.1054539. 
eCollection 2022.

Biomarkers in psoriatic arthritis: A meta-analysis and systematic review.

Wirth T(1), Balandraud N(1)(2), Boyer L(3), Lafforgue P(1), Pham T(1).

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Department, Sainte Marguerite Hospital, Aix-Marseille 
University, APHM, Marseille, France.
(2)Autoimmune Arthritis Laboratory, INSERM UMRs1097, Aix Marseille University, 
Marseille, France.
(3)School of Medicine, EA 3279, CEReSS, Research Center on Health Services and 
Quality of Life, Aix Marseille University, Marseille, France.

INTRODUCTION: Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) is a chronic inflammatory disease that 
frequently develops in patients with psoriasis (PsO) but can also occur 
spontaneously. As a result, PsA diagnosis and treatment is commonly delayed, or 
even missed outright due to the manifold of clinical presentations that patients 
often experience. This inevitably results in progressive articular damage to 
axial and peripheral joints and entheses. As such, patients with PsA frequently 
experience reduced expectancy and quality of life due to disability. More 
recently, research has aimed to improve PsA diagnosis and prognosis by 
identifying novel disease biomarkers.
METHODS: Here, we conducted a systematic review of the published literature on 
candidate biomarkers for PsA diagnosis and prognosis in MEDLINE(Pubmed), EMBase 
and the Cochrane library with the goal to identify clinically applicable PsA 
biomarkers. Meta-analyses were performed when a diagnostic bone and cartilage 
turnover biomarker was reported in 2 or moredifferent cohorts of PsA and 
control.
RESULTS: We identified 1444 publications and 124 studies met eligibility 
criteria. We highlighted bone and cartilage turnover biomarkers, genetic 
markers, and autoantibodies used for diagnostic purposes of PsA, as well as 
acute phase reactant markers and bone and cartilage turnover biomarkers for 
activity or prognostic severity purposes. Serum cartilage oligometrix 
metalloproteinase levels were significantly increased in the PsA sera compared 
to Healthy Control (HC) with a standardized mean difference (SMD) of 2.305 
(95%CI 0.795-3.816, p=0.003) and compared to osteoarthritis (OA) with a SMD of 
0.783 (95%CI 0.015-1.551, p=0.046). The pooled serum MMP-3 levels were 
significantly higher in PsA patients than in PsO patients with a SMD of 0.419 
(95%CI 0.119-0.719; p=0.006), but no significant difference was highlighted when 
PsA were compared to HC. While we did not identify any new genetic biomarkers 
that would be useful in the diagnosis of PsA, recent data with autoantibodies 
appear to be promising in diagnosis, but no replication studies have been 
published.
CONCLUSION: In summary, no specific diagnostic biomarkers for PsA were 
identified and further studies are needed to assess the performance of potential 
biomarkers that can distinguish PsA from OA and other chronic inflammatory 
diseases.

Copyright © 2022 Wirth, Balandraud, Boyer, Lafforgue and Pham.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.1054539
PMCID: PMC9749424
PMID: 36532039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


253. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2022 Dec 1;10:1004155. doi:
10.3389/fbioe.2022.1004155.  eCollection 2022.

Case report: Long-term follow-up of a large full-thickness skin defect treated 
with a photosynthetic scaffold for dermal regeneration.

Obaíd ML(1), Carvajal F(2), Camacho JP(1), Corrales-Orovio R(2)(3), Martorell 
X(4), Varas J(5), Calderón W(1), Guzmán CD(6), Brenet M(2), Castro M(7), Orlandi 
C(7), San Martín S(5), Eblen-Zajjur A(2)(8), Egaña JT(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, Hospital del Salvador, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Institute for Biological and Medical Engineering, Schools of Engineering, 
Medicine and Biological Sciences, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, 
Santiago, Chile.
(3)Division of Hand, Plastic and Aesthetic Surgery, University Hospital, LMU, 
Munich, Germany.
(4)Critical Care Unit, Hospital del Salvador, Santiago, Chile.
(5)Biomedical Research Center, School of Medicine, Universidad de Valparaíso, 
Valparaíso, Chile.
(6)Sky-Walkers SpA, Litueche, Chile.
(7)Clínica Orlandi Dermatological Center, Santiago, Chile.
(8)Translational Neuroscience Lab, Faculty of Medicine, Universidad Diego 
Portales, Santiago, Chile.

It is broadly described that almost every step of the regeneration process 
requires proper levels of oxygen supply; however, due to the vascular disruption 
in wounds, oxygen availability is reduced, being detrimental to the regeneration 
process. Therefore, the development of novel biomaterials combined with improved 
clinical procedures to promote wound oxygenation is an active field of research 
in regenerative medicine. This case report derives from a cohort of patients 
enrolled in a previously published ongoing phase I clinical trial (NCT03960164), 
to assess safety of photosynthetic scaffolds for the treatment of full skin 
defects. Here, we present a 56 year old patient, with a scar contracture in the 
cubital fossa, which impaired the elbow extension significantly affecting her 
quality of life. As part of the treatment, the scar contracture was removed, and 
the full-thickness wound generated was surgically covered with a photosynthetic 
scaffold for dermal regeneration, which was illuminated to promote local oxygen 
production. Then, in a second procedure, an autograft was implanted on top of 
the scaffold and the patient's progress was followed for up to 17 months. 
Successful outcome of the whole procedure was measured as improvement in 
functionality, clinical appearance, and self-perception of the treated area. 
This case report underscores the long-term safety and applicability of 
photosynthetic scaffolds for dermal regeneration and their stable compatibility 
with other surgical procedures such as autograft application. Moreover, this 
report also shows the ability to further improve the clinical outcome of this 
procedure by means of dermal vacuum massage therapy and, more importantly, shows 
an overall long-term improvement in patient´s quality of life, supporting the 
translation of photosynthetic therapies into human patients.

Copyright © 2022 Obaíd, Carvajal, Camacho, Corrales-Orovio, Martorell, Varas, 
Calderón, Guzmán, Brenet, Castro, Orlandi, San Martín, Eblen-Zajjur and Egaña.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2022.1004155
PMCID: PMC9751053
PMID: 36532582

Conflict of interest statement: JTE is co-founder of SymbiOx Inc., a startup 
company that owns IP for the technology described here. SymbiOx Inc., was 
supported by a R&D grant obtained from the Chilean Ministry of Economics (CORFO 
18PIDE98887). CDG was employed by the Company Sky-Walkers SpA. The remaining 
authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial 
or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.


254. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2022 Dec 2;10:1040695. doi:
10.3389/fbioe.2022.1040695.  eCollection 2022.

Biomechanical consequences of cement discoplasty: An in vitro study on 
thoraco-lumbar human spines.

Techens C(1)(2)(3), Montanari S(1), Bereczki F(2)(4), Eltes PE(2)(3), Lazary 
A(2)(3), Cristofolini L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial Engineering, School of Engineering and Architecture, 
Alma Mater Studiorum-Università di Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(2)In Silico Biomechanics Laboratory, National Center for Spinal Disorders, Buda 
Health Center, Budapest, Hungary.
(3)Department of Spinal Surgery, Department of Orthopaedics, Semmelweis 
University, Budapest, Hungary.
(4)School of PhD Studies, Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary.

With the ageing of the population, there is an increasing need for minimally 
invasive spine surgeries to relieve pain and improve quality of life. 
Percutaneous Cement Discoplasty is a minimally invasive technique to treat 
advanced disc degeneration, including vacuum phenomenon. The present study aimed 
to develop an in vitro model of percutaneous cement discoplasty to investigate 
its consequences on the spine biomechanics in comparison with the degenerated 
condition. Human spinal segments (n = 27) were tested at 50% body weight in 
flexion and extension. Posterior disc height, range of motion, segment 
stiffness, and strains were measured using Digital Image Correlation. The cement 
distribution was also studied on CT scans. As main result, percutaneous cement 
discoplasty restored the posterior disc height by 41% for flexion and 35% for 
extension. Range of motion was significantly reduced only in flexion by 27%, and 
stiffness increased accordingly. The injected cement volume was 4.56 ± 1.78 ml 
(mean ± SD). Some specimens (n = 7) exhibited cement perforation of one 
endplate. The thickness of the cement mass moderately correlated with the 
posterior disc height and range of motion with different trends for flexions vs. 
extension. Finally, extreme strains on the discs were reduced by percutaneous 
cement discoplasty, with modified patterns of the distribution. To conclude, 
this study supported clinical observations in term of recovered disc height 
close to the foramen, while percutaneous cement discoplasty helped stabilize the 
spine in flexion and did not increase the risk of tissue damage in the annulus.

Copyright © 2022 Techens, Montanari, Bereczki, Eltes, Lazary and Cristofolini.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2022.1040695
PMCID: PMC9755512
PMID: 36532589

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


255. Eur J Transl Myol. 2022 Dec 5;32(4):10984. doi: 10.4081/ejtm.2022.10984.

Is group-based physical therapy superior to individual rehabilitation in elderly 
adults after total knee arthroplasty? A prospective observational study.

Krumov J(1), Obretenov V(2), Bozov H(3), Tzachev N(4), Milanova H(5), Panayotov 
K(6), Papathanasiou J(7).

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Military Medical Academy Varna, 
Bulgaria; Rehabilitation Center Pobeda, Varna. ortomed.dr.krumov@abv.bg.
(2)Clinic of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Military Medical Academy Varna. 
obretenov.ort@abv.bg.
(3)Clinic of Anesthesiology Intensive Care and Hyperbaric Medicine, Military 
Medical Academy, Varna. hr_bozov@yahoo.com.
(4)Clinic of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Military Medical Academy Sofia. 
ntzachev@abv.bg.
(5)Second Clinic of Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine, Military Medical 
Academy Sofia. ina.milanova@abv.bg.
(6)Faculty of Public Health, "Angel Kanchev" University of Ruse. zkm4@abv.bg.
(7)Department of Medical Imaging, Allergology & Physiotherapy, Faculty of Dental 
Medicine, Medical University of Plovdiv, Bulgaria; Department of Kinesitherapy, 
Faculty of Public Health "Prof. Dr. Tzecomir Vodenicharov, DSc.", Medical 
University of Sofia. giannipap@yahoo.co.uk.

Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is the most prevalent joint disease and one of the 
leading causes of disability, poor physical activity levels (PAL), and quality 
of life (Qol) of elderly people worldwide. The purpose of this study was to 
evaluate the superiority of a novel group-based physical therapy (GBPT) 
intervention compared to a more traditional one-to-one individual physical 
therapy (IPT) among elderly Bulgarian subjects underwent total knee arthroplasty 
(TKA). One hundred and thirty elderly TKA recipients of both genders with mean 
age=72.69±0.44 were randomly assigned to GBPT or to one-to-one IPT. Elderly 
participants were assessed at baseline and at 3 and 6 months after both 
rehabilitation interventions, with the use of the following evaluation tools: 
Physical Activity Scale for the Elderly (PASE), Six-Minute Walk Test (6MWT), and 
Short Form Health Survey questionnaire (SF-36v2). At 6 months elderly TKA 
recipients who received GBPT achieved 7.36 points more in the PASE questionnaire 
when compared with the IPT group. Elderly participants of the GBPT group walked 
significantly longer distance during the 6MWT than TKA recipients attended IPT, 
respectively 421.56 m vs. 398.62 m, (p< 0.001). Furthermore, significantly 
greater improvement in health-related quality of life (HRQoL) was obtained from 
the elderly participants of the GBPT arm compared with the participants of the 
IPT arm, respectively 70, 7% vs. 60, 8% at 6 months follow up. We conclude that 
our results suggest the superiority of the GBPT in terms of PAL (PASE score, 
6MWT) and HRQoL among elderly TKA recipients across the first 6 months.

DOI: 10.4081/ejtm.2022.10984
PMCID: PMC9830394
PMID: 36533668

Conflict of interest statement: We confirm that we have read the Journal’s 
position on issues involved in ethical publication and affirm that this article 
is consistent with those guidelines. Nowadays, the global increase in total 
numbers of elderly people is astonishing and the World Health Organization (WHO) 
has estimated that the geriatric population has increased from 8% in 2012 to 
8.5% in 2015 and is expected to rise by 22% in 2050. Osteoarthritis (OA) remains 
the most challenging degenerative joint disease, and a primary cause of pain, 
disability, and diminished quality of life (Qol) among the older population, 
resulting in an enormous burden on the healthcare systems worldwide. It has been 
estimated, that 9.6% of men and 18% of women above 65 years suffer from knee OA, 
and 78 million people will be affected by 2040. The knee joint is the most 
frequent location of OA, and is mainly characterized by pain, reduced muscle 
strength, cartilage destruction, and abnormal bone metabolism, which limiting in 
performing activities of daily living (ADL), and compromising physical activity 
levels (PAL) of patients. Both individuals with knee OA and total knee 
arthroplasty (TKA) recipients demonstrate several functional limitations such as 
reduced mobility, slower walking speed, prolonged time to climb stairs, and 
difficulties in transferring into and out of a car compared to people without 
knee pathology. So far the effective management of knee OA is one of the main 
priorities of the World Health Organization (WHO) and includes surgical 
techniques such as TKA in combination with nonsurgical treatments, such as 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and application of several 
rehabilitation protocols. TKA has been documented as the most effective surgical 
treatment for end-stage knee OA, giving patients restored functional ability, 
pain relief and consequently improved PAL and QoL. These benefits led to 25% 
increased demand of TKAs in Western countries, partly due to the aging of 
population and increasingly longer life expectancy. It has been estimated that 
between 2000 and 2014, the annual number of primary TKAs was increased by 148% 
in the United States, and more than 700,000 Americans annually elect to undergo 
TKA, projected to reach 3.5 million by 2030. Osteoarthritis Research Society 
International (OARSI) guidelines, rehabilitation is considered the ”core” 
non-surgical treatment of OA and is widely promoted after TKA. Nowadays, various 
post-TKA rehabilitation protocols are applied. The majority of them are focused 
on the recovery of knee range-of-motion (ROM) and strengthening of the knee 
extensor musculature. While in United Kingdom and Australia, the outpatient 
post-TKA rehabilitation setting is widely applied, in the United States the 
inpatient post-TKA rehabilitation interventions are mainly preferred. The 
outpatient setting includes various modalities such as (one-to-one) individual 
physical therapy (IPT), group-based physical therapy (GBPT), home-based 
exercise, interventions and more recently telerehabilitation. IPT is widely used 
rehabilitation modality in Australia, while the group-based interventions are 
the predominate treatment in the United Kingdom and Scandinavian countries. 
Although, the adequate and quick functional recovery of elderly TKA recipients 
continues to pose a challenge for both patients and physical and rehabilitation 
medicine (PRM) specialists. Hence, the purpose of this study was to highlight 
the eventual superiority of the GBPT compared to the IPT, in terms of PAL and 
QoL, among elderly Bulgarian patients primarily undergoing TKA.


256. Pflege. 2023 Jun;36(3):139-146. doi: 10.1024/1012-5302/a000922. Epub 2022
Dec  19.

[Self-efficacy expectancy in adolescents with anorexia nervosa in the outpatient 
setting: A cross-sectional study].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Sonderegger S(1), Waldboth V(2), Schlüer AB(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Psychosomatisch-psychiatrische Therapiestation, Universitäts-Kinderspital 
Zürich, Schweiz.
(2)Institut für Pflege, Departement Gesundheit, Zürcher Hochschule für 
Angewandte Wissenschaften, Winterthur, Schweiz.
(3)Kinder-Spitex, Spitex Bern, Schweiz.

Self-efficacy expectancy in adolescents with anorexia nervosa in the outpatient 
setting: A cross-sectional study Abstract: Introduction: The population involved 
in this study are individuals with anorexia nervosa (AN). AN is a disease with 
sometimes life-threatening underweight. Self-esteem problems, anxiety and social 
problems accompany those affected. AN is often chronic. Hospitalized patients 
quickly gain weight, but often the underlying eating problem persists, which 
leads to rehospitalization. Studies on the self-efficacy expectation (SWE) of 
those affected are largely lacking. Aim: The aim of this study is to examine the 
SWE in those affected in the post-hospital setting with reference to the age of 
the affected persons, the number of hospitalizations and the course of the 
disease. Method: As part of this cross-sectional study, those affected were 
interviewed in the post-hospital, psychosomatic setting using a standardized 
questionnaire "General SWE". The data were evaluated descriptively and by means 
of inferential statistics. Result: 85 young people were interviewed. In the 
sample, the SWE score averaged = 28.53 with up to and including three 
hospitalizations and = 24.68 with four or more hospitalizations. If the 
inpatient stay was only recently, the SWE score shows a lower value (= 26.08) 
than for those with a longer stay (= 29.00). Conclusion: The results indicate 
that SWE can influence the course of the disease in those affected. People with 
higher SWE values show a more favorable course of the disease with fewer 
rehospitalizations. The strengthening of the SWE is therefore of great 
importance in the inpatient and outpatient setting through targeted 
interventions by specialists.

Publisher: Zusammenfassung: Hintergrund: Die in diese Studie involvierte 
Population betrifft Personen mit Anorexia nervosa (AN). AN ist eine Erkrankung 
mit teilweise lebensbedrohlichem Untergewicht. Selbstwertproblematik, Ängste und 
soziale Probleme begleiten Betroffene. AN verläuft oft chronisch. Hospitalisiert 
nehmen die Betroffenen an Gewicht zu, oft persistiert die zugrundeliegende 
Essproblematik, was zur Rehospitalisation führt. Untersuchungen zur 
Selbstwirksamkeitserwartung (SWE) Betroffener fehlen weitgehend. Ziel: Das Ziel 
dieser Arbeit ist die Untersuchung der SWE bei Betroffenen im poststationären 
Setting mit Bezug zum Alter, der Anzahl Hospitalisationen und des 
Krankheitsverlaufs. Methode: Im Rahmen dieser Querschnittstudie wurden 
Betroffene im poststationären, psychosomatischen Setting anhand eines 
standardisierten Fragebogens „Allgemeine SWE“ befragt. Die Daten wurden 
deskriptiv und mittels Inferenzstatistik ausgewertet. Ergebnis: Befragt wurden 
85 Jugendliche. Bei der Stichprobe lag der SWE-Score bei durchschnittlich = 
28.53 bis und mit drei und bei = 24.68 ab vier Hospitalisationen. Lag der 
stationäre Aufenthalt erst kürzlich zurück, wies der SWE-Score einen tieferen 
Wert auf (= 26.08) als bei jenen mit länger zurückliegendem Aufenthalt (= 
29.00). Schlussfolgerung: Die Resultate weisen darauf hin, dass die SWE den 
Krankheitsverlauf von Betroffenen beeinflussen können. Personen mit höheren 
SWE-Werten zeigen einen günstigeren Krankheitsverlauf mit weniger 
Rehospitalisationen. Die Stärkung der SWE ist deshalb im stationären und 
ambulanten Setting durch gezielte Interventionen seitens Fachpersonen von großer 
Bedeutung.

DOI: 10.1024/1012-5302/a000922
PMID: 36533861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2023 Jul;41(7):1516-1527. doi: 
10.55563/clinexprheumatol/h9lvvc. Epub 2022 Dec 5.

Global, regional and national burden of rheumatoid arthritis, and attributable 
risk factors from 1990 to 2019: update from the Global Burden of Disease 2019 
study.

Yang W(1), Xu Y(1), Lin J(1), Liu J(1), Tan Y(1), Chen J(2), Wang X(3).

Author information:
(1)Jiangxi Province Key Laboratory of Laboratory Medicine, Jiangxi Provincial 
Clinical Research Center for Laboratory Medicine, Department of Clinical 
Laboratory, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang, 
China.
(2)Jiangxi Province Key Laboratory of Laboratory Medicine, Jiangxi Provincial 
Clinical Research Center for Laboratory Medicine, Department of Clinical 
Laboratory, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang, 
China. ndefy11330@ncu.edu.cn.
(3)Jiangxi Province Key Laboratory of Laboratory Medicine, Jiangxi Provincial 
Clinical Research Center for Laboratory Medicine, Department of Clinical 
Laboratory, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang, 
China. wangxiaozhong@ncu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVES: Statistical data on the incidence, disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) and burden of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and associated risk factors are 
essential for the development of effective treatment options. The Global Burden 
of Disease (GBD) study provides a unique opportunity to evaluate the 
aforementioned parameters.
METHODS: The RA incidence rate, age-standardised incidence rate (ASR), DALYs and 
estimated annual percentage change (EAPC) between 1990 and 2019 were evaluated, 
using data from 204 territories and countries from the GBD 2019. Risk factors 
associated with DALYs in patients with RA were estimated using the comparative 
risk assessment framework of the GBD study.
RESULTS: The results of the present study demonstrated that the incidence of RA 
increased from 567,462.89 to 1,074,390.80 cases, with an ASR of 13/100,000 
patients between 1990 and 2019. The number of RA cases and DALYs were increased 
in all socio-demographic index quintiles during the study period. A significant 
negative association was found between EAPCs and age-standardised DALYs per 
100,000 (ρ= -0.60; p<0.001). Notably, females exhibited an increased ASRs and 
DALYs than males, at both global and regional levels during the study period. 
Globally, age-standardised DALYs increased in an age-dependent manner, with the 
highest rate in the 60-69 years age group. Moreover, smoking was the predominant 
contributor to RA-associated DALYs for males worldwide, and this trend decreased 
from 1990 to 2019.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence rate of RA and associated DALYs are increasing 
worldwide, particularly among female patients. This trend is expected to 
increase, due an ageing population. Notably, smoking remained the predominant 
risk factor for RA-associated DALYs in males. Therefore, further investigations 
into the impact of smoking, and improvements in early diagnosis and treatment 
strategies for RA are required to reduce the global burden of RA.

DOI: 10.55563/clinexprheumatol/h9lvvc
PMID: 36533984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Zh Vopr Neirokhir Im N N Burdenko. 2022;86(6):99-105. doi: 
10.17116/neiro20228606199.

[Molecular markers of neuro-oncogenesis in patients with glioblastoma].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Kopylov AM(1), Antipova OA(1), Pavlova GV(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia.
(2)Burdenko Neurosurgical Center, Moscow, Russia.
(3)Institute of Higher Nervous Activity and Neurophysiology, Moscow, Russia.
(4)Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University, Moscow, Russia.

The problem of current treatment approaches to brain gliomas is short-term life 
expectancy in these patients. Apparently, it is required to change treatment 
approach via analysis of glioma stem cells rather cells with overexpression of 
marker genes. This review is devoted to similarities and differences between 
neurogenesis and neuro-oncogenesis characterized with molecular markers (CD133 
as an example). The role of tumor stem cells and their relationship with neural 
stem cells are considered regarding development of glioma. The authors analyzed 
CD133 as a marker of glioma stem cells. In the future, stem cells will be 
important target for eradication during target therapy. A single molecular 
marker cannot characterize tumor stem cells as supported by CD133 studies. A set 
of molecular markers specific for certain cell type is required, and their 
combination will provide more accurate establishment of tumor stem cells.

Publisher: Проблема современных подходов к терапии глиомы головного мозга 
человека заключается в том, что до сих пор не удается достигнуть значительного 
увеличения продолжительности жизни пациентов. По всей видимости, необходимо 
принципиально изменить подход к лечению данного заболевания, изучая не клетки с 
повышенной экспрессией маркерных генов, а опухолевые стволовые клетки (ОСК) 
глиомы. Данный обзор рассматривает сходство и различие нейрогенеза и 
нейроонкогенеза, определяемые молекулярными маркерами, на примере CD133. Для 
глиомагенеза рассмотрена роль ОСК и их связь с нейральными стволовыми клетками. 
Проанализирована значимость CD133 в качестве маркера ОСК. В дальнейшем ОСК 
станут важной мишенью, на эрадикацию которой будет направлена таргетная терапия. 
С помощью единичного молекулярного маркера нельзя характеризовать ОСК, что 
подтверждается исследованиями CD133. Необходим набор молекулярных маркеров, 
специфичный для данного типа клеток, а их комбинация позволит более точно 
определить ОСК.

DOI: 10.17116/neiro20228606199
PMID: 36534630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Review of age limits in the mammography screening programme: IQWiG Reports –
 Commission No. S21-01 [Internet].

Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG).

Cologne (Germany): Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG); 
2022 Nov 25.
Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care: Extracts.

RESEARCH QUESTION: The aims of the present investigation are to assess the 
benefit of mammography screening for breast cancer versus no screening (or 
breast palpation alone) – in women aged 45 to 49 years with no signs of breast 
cancer and no specifically increased risk of breast cancer (Question 1) and – in 
women aged 70 years and older with no signs of breast cancer and no specifically 
increased risk of breast cancer (Question 2) with regard to patient-relevant 
outcomes.
CONCLUSION: QUESTION 1: AGE GROUP 45 TO 49 YEARS: For breast cancer-specific 
mortality, the data provide a hint of a benefit of mammography screening versus 
no screening in women aged 45 to 49 years. With regard to all-cause mortality, 
there was no statistically significant result. The result on all-cause mortality 
is no argument against a benefit of mammography screening, because all-cause 
mortality is considerably influenced by other causes of death. It is assumed 
that the overall effect of reduced breast cancer mortality through screening was 
too small to have an impact on all-cause mortality. However, mammography 
screening leads to negative consequences (indication of harm) through 
false-positive screening results. In addition, overdiagnosis occurs (hint of 
harm). However, the extent of harm is not so great that it outweighs the 
mortality advantage. With regard to mastectomies, the data provide no hint of a 
benefit or harm from mammography screening. No data were available for adverse 
events and health-related quality of life, so no hint of a benefit or harm was 
shown for these outcomes. However, the effect of screening on the rate of 
adverse events and on health-related quality of life is likely to be essentially 
captured by the outcome of overdiagnosis. In summary, the data provide a hint of 
a benefit of mammography screening for women aged 45 to 49 years versus no 
screening; the benefit of mammography screening thus outweighs harm. However, an 
individual assessment and weighing of benefits and harms is still essential in 
view of the very small mortality advantage in this age group. Therefore, all 
conditions must be fulfilled to enable women to make an informed decision. 
QUESTION 2: AGE GROUP 70 YEARS AND OLDER: For breast cancer-specific mortality, 
the data provide a hint of a benefit of mammography screening versus no 
screening in women aged 70 to 74 years. This is based on the results for this 
age group, the transferability of effects from adjacent younger age groups, and 
the confirmatory results of the modelling performed. With regard to all-cause 
mortality, there was no statistically significant result. This is no argument 
against a benefit of mammography screening, because with increasing age, breast 
cancer accounts for a smaller and smaller proportion of all deaths, and 
all-cause mortality is greatly influenced by competing causes of death. It is 
therefore assumed that the overall effect of reduced breast cancer mortality 
through screening was too small to have an impact on all-cause mortality. 
Mammography screening leads to overdiagnosis and to negative consequences of 
false-positive screening results (in each case a hint of harm in women aged 70 
and older). It is assumed that the expected mortality advantage outweighs the 
expected harm. No data were available for mastectomies, adverse events and 
health-related quality of life, so no hint of a benefit or harm was shown for 
these outcomes. In summary, the data provide a hint of a benefit of mammography 
screening versus no screening in women aged 70 to 74 years; the benefit of 
mammography screening thus outweighs harm. However, an individual assessment and 
weighing of benefits and harms, considering the individual health status and 
life expectancy, is still essential in view of the very small mortality 
advantage, harm observed from overdiagnosis and the consequences of 
false-positive results, as well as the uncertainties regarding the 
quantification of effects. Therefore, all conditions must be fulfilled to enable 
women to make an informed decision. An ongoing randomized controlled trial 
(AgeX) is expected to provide meaningful data for both questions of this report 
in the near future. As soon as the study results are available, it should 
therefore be examined whether the results are in line with the recommendations 
to extend the age limits. Mammography screening for women aged 75 and older 
currently offers neither a benefit nor a potential versus no screening due to a 
lack of informative data. The possible benefit with regard to breast 
cancer-specific mortality, which is, however, quite questionable in this age 
group, is likely to be countered by harm expected from overdiagnosis and 
consequences of false-positive screening results.

© IQWiG (Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care).

PMID: 36534750


260. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2023 Feb 3;63(2):ezac572. doi:
10.1093/ejcts/ezac572.

Ten years' experience with the sutureless aortic valve replacement: incidence 
and predictors for survival and valve durability at follow-up.

Pollari F(1), Mamdooh H(1), Hitzl W(2)(3)(4), Grossmann I(1), Vogt F(1), 
Fischlein T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Klinikum Nürnberg-Paracelsus Medical 
University, Nuremberg, Germany.
(2)Research and Innovation Management (RIM) Department, Biostatistics and 
Publication of Clinical Trials, Paracelsus Medical University, Salzburg, 
Austria.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology and Optometry, Paracelsus Medical University 
Salzburg, Salzburg, Austria.
(4)Research Program Experimental Ophthalmology and Glaucoma Research, Paracelsus 
Medical University, Salzburg, Austria.

Comment in
    Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2023 Feb 3;63(2):

OBJECTIVES: Aortic valve replacement with a sutureless prosthesis [sutureless 
aortic valve replacement (Su-AVR)] is an option for patients with severe aortic 
valve stenosis. However, data regarding long-term outcomes and prosthesis 
durability are still lacking.
METHODS: All consecutive patients who successfully underwent Su-AVR with the 
Perceval valve in our centre between 2010 and 2020 were included in the analysis 
and followed prospectively with echocardiography. Risk factor analysis was 
performed to assess variables associated with worse survival and bioprosthetic 
valve failure.
RESULTS: Study population consisted of 547 patients: the mean age was 76.4 (5.2) 
years, 51% were female and the mean logistic EuroSCORE was 13% (11). The median 
survival was 7.76 years [95% confidence interval (CI) = 6.9-8.6]. Risk factor 
analysis identified age [hazard ratio (HR) 1.06, 95% CI 1.03-1.11; P < 0.001), 
EuroSCORE II (HR 1.08, 1.02-1.13; P < 0.001), baseline dialysis (HR 2.14, 95% CI 
1.4-4.4; P = 0.038) and postoperative acute kidney injury ≥2 (HR 8.97, 95% CI 
4.58-17.6; P < 0.001) as factors significantly correlated with worse survival. 
The reported HRs for age are per 1 year and for EuroSCORE II is 1 percentage 
point. Structural valve deterioration (SVD) was observed in 23 patients, of whom 
19 underwent reintervention (median freedom from SVD 10.3 years). In 
multivariable Cox analysis, age (HR 0.89, 95% CI 0.82-0.95; P < 0.001) was found 
to be a significant predictor of SVD. Overall, 1.8% was referred for prosthetic 
valve endocarditis (confirmed or suspected) during follow-up. One patient showed 
moderate non-SVD and none developed prosthetic valve thrombosis.
CONCLUSIONS: The sutureless valve represents a reliable bioprosthesis for aortic 
valve replacement in patients with a 10-year life expectancy. Younger age at the 
time of implant is the only factor associated with the risk of long-term SVD.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/ejcts/ezac572
PMID: 36534823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Econ Hum Biol. 2023 Jan;48:101212. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2022.101212. Epub 2022
Dec  14.

Health, income, and the preston curve: A long view.

Prados de la Escosura L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Sciences, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, Calle 
Madrid, 135, Getafe, 28903 Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: 
leandro.prados.delaescosura@uc3m.es.

Well-being is increasingly viewed as a multidimensional phenomenon, of which 
income is only one facet. In this paper I focus on another one, health, and look 
at its synthetic measure, life expectancy at birth, and its relationship with 
per capita income. International trends of life expectancy and per capita GDP 
differed during the past 150 years. Life expectancy gains depended on economic 
growth but also on the advancement in medical knowledge. The pace and breadth of 
the health transitions drove life expectancy aggregate tendencies and 
distribution. The new results confirm the relationship between life expectancy 
and per capita income and its outward shift over time as put forward by Samuel 
Preston. However, the association between nonlinearly transformed life 
expectancy and the log of per capita income does not flatten out over time, but 
becomes convex suggesting more than proportional increases in life expectancy at 
higher per capita income levels.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2022.101212
PMID: 36535205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The author declares no 
conflict of interest.


262. Biochim Biophys Acta Mol Cell Res. 2023 Mar;1870(3):119414. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbamcr.2022.119414. Epub 2022 Dec 16.

ROS downregulate TCA activity to modulate energy metabolism via the 
HIF/miR-34/ACS-PK pathway for lifespan extension in Helicoverpa armigera.

Wang ZH(1), Jiang S(2), Xu WH(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol and Institute of Entomology, School of 
Life Sciences, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou 510006, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol and Institute of Entomology, School of 
Life Sciences, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou 510006, China. Electronic 
address: jiangssh@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

Previous studies have shown that high levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) 
and low tricarboxylic acid (TCA) activity in the brain promote pupal diapause, 
which is characterized by metabolic depression and lifespan extension. However, 
it is unclear whether ROS are associated with TCA activity. In this study, we 
demonstrate that ROS downregulate TCA activity and acetyl-CoA and pyruvate 
levels in the brains of diapause-destined pupae in the moth Helicoverpa 
armigera, as well as the protein levels of acetyl-CoA synthetase (ACS) and 
pyruvate kinase (PK), two proteins involved in the biosynthesis of acetyl-CoA 
and pyruvate, respectively. Interestingly, miR-34, which is highly expressed in 
the brains of diapause-destined pupae, can respond to ROS signaling. 
Furthermore, we show that miR-34 can reduce the expression of ACS and PK by 
directly targeting their mRNAs. Additionally, hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF), a 
transcription factor, can be activated by ROS and then promotes miR-34 
transcription by binding a cis-element in its promoter. Moreover, we observed 
delayed pupal development after treatment with a ROS activator paraquat and a 
HIF activator dimethyloxallyl glycine. Taken together, these results suggest 
that a novel pathway ROS/HIF/miR-34/ACS-PK was found to negatively regulate TCA 
activity to promote insect diapause for lifespan extension.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbamcr.2022.119414
PMID: 36535371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.


263. Brain Behav Immun. 2023 Feb;108:269-278. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2022.12.011.
Epub  2022 Dec 17.

Persistent increase over time in oxidatively stress generated RNA and DNA damage 
in patients with newly diagnosed bipolar disorder and their unaffected 
first-degree relatives - An up to 5-year prospective study.

Coello K(1), Forman JL(2), Pedersen HH(2), Vinberg M(3), Poulsen HE(4), Kessing 
LV(5).

Author information:
(1)Copenhagen Affective Disorders Research Centre (CADIC), Psychiatric Center 
Copenhagen, Rigshospitalet, Denmark. Electronic address: 
klara.coello@regionh.dk.
(2)Section of Biostatistics, Department of Public Health, University of 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Copenhagen Affective Disorders Research Centre (CADIC), Psychiatric Center 
Copenhagen, Rigshospitalet, Denmark; Psychiatric Research Unit, Psychiatric 
Centre North Zealand, Copenhagen University Hospital, Hillerød, Denmark; 
Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Denmark; 
Department of Endocrinology, Copenhagen University Hospital Bispebjerg 
Frederiksberg, Denmark; Department of Cardiology, Copenhagen University Hospital 
North Zealand, Hillerød, Denmark.
(5)Copenhagen Affective Disorders Research Centre (CADIC), Psychiatric Center 
Copenhagen, Rigshospitalet, Denmark; Department of Clinical Medicine, University 
of Copenhagen, Denmark.

OBJECTIVES: Increased oxidative stress generated nucleoside damage seems to play 
a crucial role in bipolar disorder (BD) pathophysiology. It may contribute to 
accelerated ageing and reduced life expectancy in patients with BD.
METHODS: In the five-year prospective "Bipolar Illness Onset study", we 
investigated repeated measurements of oxidative stress generated RNA and DNA 
damage in 357 patients with newly diagnosed/first-episode BD (880 visits), 132 
of their unaffected first-degree relatives (236 visits) and 198 healthy age- and 
sex-matched control persons with no personal or first-degree family history of 
affective disorder (432 visits). Amongst patients with BD, we further 
investigated associations of oxidative stress generated RNA- and DNA damage with 
affective phases and measures of illness load.
RESULTS: Patients newly diagnosed with BD and their unaffected relatives had 
higher levels of oxidative stress generated RNA damage than healthy control 
individuals and these differences persisted over time, whereas DNA damage was 
less consistently elevated. Neither illness load nor affective phase impacted 
the levels in patients with BD.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support elevated oxidative stress generated RNA damage 
being a trait phenomenon in BD as indicated by persistent increase in RNA damage 
over time in patients newly diagnosed with BD and in their unaffected 
first-degree relatives compared with healthy control individuals. We did not 
detect state alterations in levels of oxidative stress.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2022.12.011
PMID: 36535609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


264. Brain Behav Immun. 2023 Feb;108:309-327. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2022.12.008.
Epub  2022 Dec 17.

Critical windows of early-life microbiota disruption on behaviour, neuroimmune 
function, and neurodevelopment.

Lynch CMK(1), Cowan CSM(2), Bastiaanssen TFS(1), Moloney GM(3), Theune N(4), van 
de Wouw M(4), Florensa Zanuy E(4), Ventura-Silva AP(4), Codagnone MG(4), 
Villalobos-Manríquez F(4), Segalla M(4), Koc F(5), Stanton C(5), Ross P(5), 
Dinan TG(6), Clarke G(6), Cryan JF(7).

Author information:
(1)APC Microbiome Ireland, University College Cork, Ireland; Department of 
Anatomy & Neuroscience, University College Cork, Ireland.
(2)APC Microbiome Ireland, University College Cork, Ireland. Electronic address: 
c.cowan@unsw.edu.au.
(3)Department of Anatomy & Neuroscience, University College Cork, Ireland.
(4)APC Microbiome Ireland, University College Cork, Ireland.
(5)APC Microbiome Ireland, University College Cork, Ireland; Teagasc Food 
Research Centre, Moorepark, Fermoy, Cork, Ireland.
(6)APC Microbiome Ireland, University College Cork, Ireland; Department of 
Psychiatry & Neurobehavioural Sciences, University College Cork, Ireland.
