
Díaz Planelles I(1), Navarro-Tapia E(1)(2), García-Algar Ó(2)(3), 
Andreu-Fernández V(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Valencian International University (VIU), 46002 
Valencia, Spain.
(2)Neonatology Unit, Hospital Clinic de Barcelona, Grup de Recerca Infancia i 
Entorn (GRIE), Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer 
(IDIBAPS), 08036 Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Department of Neonatology, Hospital Clínic-Maternitat, ICGON, BCNatal, 08028 
Barcelona, Spain.

The demand for long-term care is expected to increase due to the rising life 
expectancy and the increased prevalence of long-term illnesses. Nursing home 
residents are at an increased risk of suffering adverse drug events due to 
inadequate prescriptions. The main objective of this systematic review is to 
collect and analyze the prevalence of potentially inadequate prescriptions based 
on the new version of STOPP/START criteria in this specific population. 
Databases (PubMed, Web of Science and Cochrane) were searched for inappropriate 
prescription use in nursing homes according to the second version of STOPP/START 
criteria. The risk of bias was assessed with the STROBE checklist. A total of 35 
articles were assessed for eligibility. One hundred and forty nursing homes and 
more than 6900 residents were evaluated through the analysis of 13 studies of 
the last eight years. The reviewed literature returned prevalence ranges between 
67.8% and 87.7% according to the STOPP criteria, according to START criteria 
prevalence ranged from 39.5% to 99.7%. The main factors associated with the 
presence of inappropriate prescriptions were age, comorbidities, and 
polypharmacy. These data highlight that, although the STOPP/START criteria were 
initially developed for community-dwelling older adults, its use in nursing 
homes may be a starting point to help detect more efficiently inappropriate 
prescriptions in institutionalized patients. We hope that this review will help 
to draw attention to the need for medication monitoring systems in this 
vulnerable population.

DOI: 10.3390/healthcare11030422
PMCID: PMC9914658
PMID: 36766997

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


934. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Jan 18;20(3):1799. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20031799.

Characterization of Static Strength, Vertical Jumping, and Isokinetic Strength 
in Soccer Players According to Age, Competitive Level, and Field Position.

Gouveia JN(1)(2), França C(1)(3)(4), Martins F(1)(3), Henriques R(2), Nascimento 
MM(5), Ihle A(6)(7)(8), Sarmento H(9), Przednowek K(10), Martinho D(9), Gouveia 
ÉR(1)(3)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Education and Sport, University of Madeira, 9020-105 
Funchal, Portugal.
(2)Marítimo da Madeira-Futebol, SAD, 9020-208 Funchal, Portugal.
(3)LARSYS, Interactive Technologies Institute, 9020-105 Funchal, Portugal.
(4)Research Center in Sports Sciences, Health Sciences, and Human Development 
(CIDESD), 5000-801 Vila Real, Portugal.
(5)Department of Physical Education, Federal University of Vale do São 
Francisco, Petrolina 56304-917, Brazil.
(6)Department of Psychology, University of Geneva, 1205 Geneva, Switzerland.
(7)Center for the Interdisciplinary Study of Gerontology and Vulnerability, 
University of Geneva, 1205 Geneva, Switzerland.
(8)Swiss National Centre of Competence in Research LIVES-Overcoming 
Vulnerability: Life Course Perspectives, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.
(9)University of Coimbra, Research Unit for Sport and Physical Education 
(CIDAF), Faculty of Sport Sciences and Physical Education, 3004-504Coimbra, 
Portugal.
(10)Institute of Physical Culture Sciences, Medical College, University of 
Rzeszów, 35-959 Rzeszów, Poland.

Muscular strength is strongly related to speed and agility tasks, which have 
been described as the most decisive actions preceding goals in the soccer game. 
This study aimed to characterize the players' strength indicators and to analyze 
the variation associated with age, competition level, and positional role. 
Eighty-three male soccer players from A team (n = 22), B team (n = 17), U-23 (n 
= 19), and U-19 (n = 25) participated in this study. Handgrip strength was 
assessed using a hand dynamometer (Jamar Plus+), countermovement jump (CMJ) and 
the squat jump (SJ) were evaluated using Optojump Next, and a Biodex System 4 
Pro Dynamometer was used to assess the isokinetic strength of knee 
extension/flexion. Team A players showed increased lower-body strength compared 
to their peers, mainly through their increased vertical jumping capacity (i.e., 
CMJ and SJ; ps < 0.019), and superior performance in isokinetic assessments 
(i.e., peak torque, total work, and average power). Overall, older players 
outperformed their younger peers regarding vertical jumping, static strength, 
and average power in isokinetic strength (ps < 0.005). This study emphasizes the 
superior strength levels of professional soccer players compared with their 
lower-division peers, even after controlling by age. This information is of 
great value to sports agents and coaches, underlining the need to design and 
include strength-specific content during soccer training.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20031799
PMCID: PMC9914659
PMID: 36767166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


935. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Jan 24;20(3):2141. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20032141.

Closing the Gap: From Research to Practice in Mental Health Interventions.

Lipskaya-Velikovsky L(1), Krupa T(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Occupational Therapy, Faculty of Medicine, The Hebrew University, 
Jerusalem 9124001, Israel.
(2)School of Rehabilitation Therapy, Queen's University, Kingston, ON K7L 3N6, 
Canada.

Evidence-based practice is critical but challenging in mental health. Rigorous 
research-proven interventions often do not yield expected results in the 
clinical practice. This study aimed to explore factors contributing to the 
effectiveness of Occupational Connections (OC)-an intervention for promotion of 
engagement in meaningful occupations in serious mental illness (SMI)-based on 
case series study of three quasi-experimental studies. The studies focused on 
people with SMI, admitted to intensive mental health services participated in 
the OC, as well as on a control condition group. Similar evaluation procedures 
throughout these studies addressed primary outcomes of participation dimensions 
and recovery orientation, as well as secondary outcomes of functional capacity, 
cognition, and symptom severity. Patterns of changes in outcome measures varied 
between the three studies as to direction and extension. In the OC groups, 
29-60% of the outcome measurements were changed, in comparison to 29-43% of 
measurements in the control groups. The secondary outcomes were consistently 
improved in the OC (18-100% of measurements) in comparison to the control 
(18-67%). The analysis of the studies revealed that clinical effectiveness of 
participation-oriented intervention varied dependent on interplay between the 
clinical context, clinician actions, served persons' characteristics, and 
evidence-building process. These factors should be considered to maximize 
research benefits for practice.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20032141
PMCID: PMC9915162
PMID: 36767508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The Authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.


936. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Jan 25;20(3):2147. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20032147.

Study on the Correlation between Life Expectancy and the Ecological Environment 
around the Cities along the Belt and Road.

Li C(1), Wu J(1), Li D(1), Jiang Y(1), Wu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory for Geographical Process Analysis & Simulation of Hubei 
Province, College of Urban and Environmental Science, Central China Normal 
University, Wuhan 430079, China.

The impact of building the Belt and Road on the ecological environment and the 
health of the related cities along this belt deserves more attention. Currently, 
there are few relevant pieces of research in this area, and the problem of a 
time lag between the ecological environment and health (e.g., life expectancy, 
LE) has not been explored. This paper investigates the aforementioned problem 
based on five ecological indicators, i.e., normalized difference vegetation 
index, leaf area index, gross primary production (GPP), land surface temperature 
(LST), and wet, which were obtained from MODIS satellite remote-sensing products 
in 2010, 2015, and 2020. The research steps are as follows: firstly, a 
comprehensive ecological index (CEI) of the areas along the Belt and Road was 
calculated based on the principle of component analysis; secondly, the changes 
in the trends of the five ecological indicators and the CEI in the research area 
in the past 11 years were calculated by using the trend degree analysis method; 
then, the distributions of the cold and hot spots of each index in the research 
area were calculated via cold and hot spot analysis; finally, the time lag 
relationship between LE and the ecological environment was explored by using the 
proposed spatiotemporal lag spatial crosscorrelation analysis. The experimental 
results show that ① there is a positive correlation between LE and ecological 
environment quality in the study area; ② the ecological environment has a 
lagging impact on LE, and the impact of ecological indicators in 2010 on LE in 
2020 is greater than that in 2015; ③ among the ecological indicators, GPP has 
the highest impact on LE, while LST and Wet have a negative correlation with LE.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20032147
PMCID: PMC9915909
PMID: 36767514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


937. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Jan 26;20(3):2201. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20032201.

Multimodality Imaging in HIV-Associated Cardiovascular Complications: A 
Comprehensive Review.

Kumar P(1), Arendt C(2), Martin S(1), Al Soufi S(1), DeLeuw P(3), Nagel E(1), 
Puntmann VO(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Experimental and Translational Cardiac Imaging, DZHK, Centre for 
Cardiovascular Imaging, University Hospital Frankfurt, 60590 Frankfurt am Main, 
Germany.
(2)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University Hospital 
Frankfurt, 60590 Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(3)Infektiologikum, 60590 Frankfurt-am Main, Germany.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is a leading cause of mortality and 
morbidity worldwide. The introduction of antiretroviral therapy (ART) has 
significantly reduced the risk of developing acquired immune deficiency syndrome 
and increased life expectancy, approaching that of the general population. 
However, people living with HIV have a substantially increased risk of 
cardiovascular diseases despite long-term viral suppression using ART. 
HIV-associated cardiovascular complications encompass a broad spectrum of 
diseases that involve the myocardium, pericardium, coronary arteries, valves, 
and systemic and pulmonary vasculature. Traditional risk stratification tools do 
not accurately predict cardiovascular risk in this population. Multimodality 
imaging plays an essential role in the evaluation of various HIV-related 
cardiovascular complications. Here, we emphasize the role of multimodality 
imaging in establishing the diagnosis and aetiopathogenesis of various 
cardiovascular manifestations related to chronic HIV disease. This review also 
provides a critical appraisal of contemporary data and illustrative cases.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20032201
PMCID: PMC9915416
PMID: 36767567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: V.O.P. and E.N. have received speaker fees from 
Bayer AG and Siemens AG, as well as educational grants from Bayer AG and Neosoft 
Ltd. Other authors report no relevant conflicts of interest related to this 
research project.


938. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Jan 28;20(3):2325. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20032325.

The Relationship between Energy Consumption, CO(2) Emissions, Economic Growth, 
and Health Indicators.

Li J(1), Irfan M(2), Samad S(3), Ali B(2), Zhang Y(4), Badulescu D(5), Badulescu 
A(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Economics, Minzu University of China, Beijing 100081, China.
(2)Department of Economics, COMSATS University Islamabad (C.U.I.), Islamabad 
44000, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Business Administration, College of Business and 
Administration, Princess Nourah bint Abdulrahman University, Riyadh 11671, Saudi 
Arabia.
(4)School of Management, Hebei Finance University, Baoding 071051, China.
(5)Department of Economics and Business, Faculty of Economic Sciences, 
University of Oradea, 410087 Oradea, Romania.

The health and wellness of people through life expectancy, mortality rate 
improvement, and sustaining the productivity of labor contributes a lot to 
national income. Infrastructure development consumes energy and releases carbon 
dioxide at different stages of the construction process. The current study 
explores the nexus between CO2 emission, energy consumption, mortality, life 
expectancy, and GDP in the top five carbon-emitting countries by using time 
series data from 1975 to 2015. The study used a cointegration technique to find 
the long- and short-run relationships between study variables. The study also 
used a structural break test to identify the break time. The results of the 
correlation matrix show strong positive correlation between CO2 emissions and 
energy consumption. It also reflects a weak correlation with mortality and life 
expectancy in Japan and Russia. The results of the ADF test indicated that the 
series are stationary at first difference and provided evidence to use Johansen 
cointegration test for long- and short-run relationships between independent 
series. Vector error correction term and ECT method are used to find long-run 
relationships between cointegrated series and adjustment parameters. For the 
structural breaks of health indicators and energy consumption study, we used the 
Gregory Hanson structural break. Mortality rate and life expectancy rate of 
China, U.S., Russia, India, and Japan show relevant policy changes with economic 
policies of each country.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20032325
PMCID: PMC9915105
PMID: 36767690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


939. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Jan 29;20(3):2419. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20032419.

Losses of Life Expectancy and Productivity Associated with COVID-19 Pandemic in 
Canada: Policy Implication for Future Communicable Disease Control.

Wang F(1)(2), Lui J(1), Wang JD(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, College of Social Science, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan 704, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Public Health, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan 704, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University Hospital, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 
704, Taiwan.

This research examines whether the Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) did harm 
to the population's health through comparing the changes in the life expectancy 
of Canadians with those of Australians over the period from March 2019 to 
February 2021 by using a difference-in-differences (DID) estimation method. We 
found that the pandemic did cause differences in life expectancies between 
Canada and Australia, probably because of different initial control policies for 
COVID-19. This study uses the indicator of disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) to measure the societal health burden, which was corroborated by 
estimating temporal productivity loss (TPL) and permanent productivity loss 
(PPL) based on the human capital approach (HCA) using data from Health Canada. 
The societal health burden in Canada amounted to 6.493 DALYs per 1000 male 
persons and 5.316 DALYs per 1000 female persons. The economy's permanent 
productivity loss was around USD 5.3 billion, while the temporary productivity 
loss was around USD 3 billion from February 2020 to April 2022. The sum of the 
above two losses amounted to 0.477% of the GDP in 2019. Swift and decisive 
decisions at the very early stage of a pandemic can nip contagions in the bud 
before numbers get out of hand and would be less damaging to people's health and 
the economy, as seen in Australia, in contrast to what happened in Canada. We 
thus recommend that such policies plus telecommunication systems in healthcare 
services be implemented early on to cope with the future outbreak of any 
emerging infectious diseases such as COVID-19.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20032419
PMCID: PMC9916087
PMID: 36767785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


940. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Feb 3;20(3):2746. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20032746.

Economic Burden of Cervical Cancer in Bulgaria.

Lebanova H(1), Stoev S(1), Naseva E(2), Getova V(3), Wang W(4), Sabale U(5), 
Petrova E(6).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical University-Pleven, 5800 Pleven, Bulgaria.
(2)Faculty of Public Health "Prof. Tsekomir Vodenicharov, MD, DSc", Medical 
University of Sofia, 1527 Sofia, Bulgaria.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical University of Sofia, 1000 Sofia, Bulgaria.
(4)Center for Observational and Real-World Evidence, Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, 
NJ 07065, USA.
(5)Center for Observational and Real-World Evidence, Merck Sharp & Dohme, 11330 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)Market Access, MSD, 1407 Sofia, Bulgaria.

Bulgaria is among the European Union (EU) countries with the highest burden of 
cervical cancers and life expectancy below the EU average. The majority of 
cervical cancer cases (more than 95%) are caused by the human papillomavirus 
(HPV). The aim of this retrospective, cost of illness study is to identify 
direct healthcare costs of cervical cancer in Bulgaria from the payer 
perspective and to calculate indirect costs and the associated years of life 
lost. Costs data were sourced from the National Health Insurance Fund from 
January 2018 to December 2020. Years of life lost were calculated based on the 
country and gender-specific life expectancy. Indirect costs due to productivity 
loss were calculated using the human capital approach. The total treatment costs 
for 3540 patients with cervical cancer are EUR 5,743,657 (2018), EUR 6,377,508 
(2019), and EUR 6,751,182 (2020). The costs associated with drug acquisition and 
administration accounted for the majority (63%) of total healthcare costs 
followed by hospital management costs (14%). An estimated total of 20,446 years 
of life were lost due to cervical cancer for the period 2018-2020. The costs of 
productivity losses are estimated at EUR 7,578,014. Our study showed that the 
economic burden of cervical cancer in Bulgaria is substantial. Focus on cervical 
cancer prevention via vaccination against the human papillomavirus, timely 
screening, early diagnosis, and higher vaccine coverage rates could reduce its 
economic burden in Bulgaria.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20032746
PMCID: PMC9915037
PMID: 36768109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H.L. was compensated by MSD Bulgaria for the 
conduction of the study research and development of the manuscript. Ugne Sabale 
and Elina Petrova are employees of MSD subsidiaries of Merck & Co., Inc., 
Rahway, NJ, USA, the manufacturer of the HPV vaccine, and may own stocks and/or 
stock options in Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, NJ, USA. Co-author (W.W.) is an 
employee of Merck Sharp & Dohme LLC, a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, 
NJ, USA, and may hold stock in Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, NJ, USA.


941. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Jan 30;24(3):2618. doi: 10.3390/ijms24032618.

MicroRNA and Messenger RNA Expression Profiles in Canine Mammary Gland Tumor.

Kim EP(1), Jang G(2), Kim JW(1)(3), Kim SW(4)(5), Chung H(6), Yang YJ(6), Kim 
WH(6), Kim GA(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Theriogenology and Biotechnology, Research Institute for 
Veterinary Science, College of Veterinary Medicine, Seoul National University, 
Seoul 08826, Republic of Korea.
(2)Research and Development Center, Einocle Inc., Seoul 02841, Republic of 
Korea.
(3)Research and Development Center, ROKIT Healthcare Inc., Seoul 08512, Republic 
of Korea.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Medicine, Seoul 
National University, Seoul 03080, Republic of Korea.
(5)Institute of Endemic Disease, College of Medicine, Seoul National University, 
Seoul 03080, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of General Surgery, College of Veterinary Medicine, Seoul National 
University, Seoul 08826, Republic of Korea.
(7)Department of Biomedical Laboratory Science, School of Healthcare Science, 
Eulji University, Uijeongbu 11759, Republic of Korea.
(8)Department of Senior Healthcare, Eulji University, Uijeongbu 11759, Republic 
of Korea.

Canine mammary gland tumor (CMT) is the most frequently diagnosed neoplasm in 
intact female dogs. As prognosis depends on the malignancy of tumors and 
metastasis levels, early and accurate diagnosis are crucial for prolongation of 
life expectancy. The genetic similarity of dogs with humans in addition to 
environmental and physiological similarities make them ideal models for the 
study of cancer. In this study, we analyzed differentially expressed microRNAs 
followed by RNA-Seq to investigate the alterations in mRNA levels based on the 
malignancy (benign, malignant) and the biopsy locations (tumors, surrounding 
normal tissues). We identified multiple breast cancer-related genes regardless 
of malignancy. We found cfa-miR-503 to be the only miRNA that showed altered 
expression in response to malignancy in CMTs. Although further validation is 
needed, cfa-miR-503 could be used as a potential diagnostic biomarker as well as 
a potential RNA-based anti-tumor drug in malignant CMTs.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms24032618
PMCID: PMC9917093
PMID: 36768939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


942. J Clin Med. 2023 Jan 20;12(3):849. doi: 10.3390/jcm12030849.

Epidemiology and Clinical Burden of Meningococcal Disease in France: Scoping 
Review.

Baloche A(1)(2), Dussart C(1)(3), Bedouch P(2)(4), Carrouel F(1), Mick G(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Health Systemic Process (P2S), Unit Research UR4129, University Claude 
Bernard Lyon 1, University of Lyon, 69008 Lyon, France.
(2)University Grenoble Alpes, CNRS, UMR 5525, VetAgro Sup, Grenoble INP, TIMC 
Research Laboratory, 38700 Grenoble, France.
(3)Hospices Civils de Lyon, 69002 Lyon, France.
(4)Pharmacy Departement, CHU Grenoble Alpes, 38700 Grenoble, France.
(5)Pain Center, Voiron Hospital, CHU Grenoble Alpes, 38500 Grenoble, France.

Invasive meningococcal disease (IMD) remains a significant health concern due to 
its unpredictable nature and its rapid progression. Even if occurrence of IMD is 
strictly monitored by a national surveillance network, no information on 
long-term sequelae is reported, making it difficult to assess the entire 
clinical burden of IMD in France. The aim of this scoping review was to analyze 
the epidemiology and the clinical burden of IMD in France by reporting the main 
epidemiological parameters, and by describing the clinical consequences and the 
care pathway of patients. The process of the review followed the Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension to the 
Scoping Reviews guidelines. In France, the incidence of IMD cases has been 
fluctuating over time, characterized by an overall downward trend linked to a 
decrease in Sg B cases and the introduction of mandatory vaccination against Sg 
C. Sg W cases increased in recent years (from 5% to 21% in 2019). The case 
fatality rate remained constant (6-12.9%). The most frequently reported sequelae 
were severe neurological disorder, epilepsy, and anxiety. However, data on 
sequelae and care pathways were scarce. Further research should concentrate on 
providing robust identification of sequelae and the subsequent impact on quality 
of life, as well as on the organization of optimal care and support for patients 
and their families.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm12030849
PMCID: PMC9917955
PMID: 36769498

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.


943. Materials (Basel). 2023 Feb 1;16(3):1265. doi: 10.3390/ma16031265.

The Structure and Properties of Laser-Cladded Inconel 625/TiC Composite 
Coatings.

Poloczek T(1), Lont A(1), Górka J(1).

Author information:
(1)Welding Department, Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, Silesian University of 
Technology, Konarskiego Street 18A, 44-100 Gliwice, Poland.

This article presents production results concerning metal matrix 
composite-coatings made using the laser-cladding technology. The enhancement of 
the wear resistance of the material surface is the one of the main goals 
accompanying the manufacturing of composite coatings. Nickel-based superalloys 
are used in several industries because they are characterized by a number of 
desirable properties including high tensile and fatigue strength as well as 
resistance to high-temperature corrosion in aggressive environments. One of the 
most interesting materials from the group of superalloys is Inconel 625, used as 
a matrix material in tests discussed in this article. However, nickel-based 
superalloys are also characterized by an insufficient wear resistance of the 
surface, therefore, in relation to the tests discussed in this article, Inconel 
625-based composite coatings were reinforced by adding 10%, 20% and 40% of 
titanium carbide particles. The addition of hard phases, i.e., TiC, WC or SiC 
particles can have a positive effect on the erosion resistance of cladded 
specimens. The aim of the experiment was to determine the impact of the titanium 
carbide content on the structure of the alloy and its resistance to corrosive 
wear, enabling the extension of the service life of Inconel 625/TiC composite 
coatings. The investigation included microhardness tests, corrosion resistance 
analysis, penetrant tests, macrostructure and microstructure analyses and X-ray 
diffraction (XRD) tests. The TiC particles increased the hardness of the 
coatings and, in general, had a negative impact on the corrosion resistance of 
pure Inconel 625 coatings. However, the increased homogeneity of composite 
coatings translated into the improvement of corrosion resistance.

DOI: 10.3390/ma16031265
PMCID: PMC9919947
PMID: 36770270

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


944. Nutrients. 2023 Jan 17;15(3):479. doi: 10.3390/nu15030479.

Nutritional Care in Children with Cystic Fibrosis.

Mariotti Zani E(1), Grandinetti R(1), Cunico D(1), Torelli L(1), Fainardi V(1), 
Pisi G(1), Esposito S(1).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Clinic, Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Parma, 
43126 Parma, Italy.

Patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) are prone to malnutrition and growth failure, 
mostly due to malabsorption caused by the derangement in the chloride transport 
across epithelial surfaces. Thus, optimal nutritional care and support should be 
an integral part of the management of the disease, with the aim of ameliorating 
clinical outcomes and life expectancy. In this report, we analyzed the nutrition 
support across the different ages, in patients with CF, with a focus on the 
relationships with growth, nutritional status, disease outcomes and the use of 
the CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulators. The nutrition 
support goal in CF care should begin as early as possible after diagnosis and 
include the achievement of an optimal nutritional status to support the growth 
stages and puberty development in children, that will further support the 
maintenance of an optimal nutritional status in adult life. The cornerstone of 
nutrition in patients with CF is a high calorie, high-fat diet, in conjunction 
with a better control of malabsorption due to pancreatic enzyme replacement 
therapy, and attention to the adequate supplementation of fat-soluble vitamins. 
When the oral caloric intake is not enough for reaching the anthropometric 
nutritional goals, supplemental enteral feeding should be initiated to improve 
growth and the nutritional status. In the last decade, the therapeutic 
possibilities towards CF have grown in a consistent way. The positive effects of 
CFTR modulators on nutritional status mainly consist in the improvement in 
weight gain and BMI, both in children and adults, and in an amelioration in 
terms of the pulmonary function and reduction of exacerbations. Several 
challenges need to be overcome with the development of new drugs, to transform 
CF from a fatal disease to a treatable chronic disease with specialized 
multidisciplinary care.

DOI: 10.3390/nu15030479
PMCID: PMC9921127
PMID: 36771186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


945. Nutrients. 2023 Feb 3;15(3):794. doi: 10.3390/nu15030794.

Effect of Iso-Caloric Substitution of Animal Protein for Other Macro Nutrients 
on Risk of Overall, Cardiovascular and Cancer Mortality: Prospective Evaluation 
in EPIC-Heidelberg Cohort and Systematic Review.

Bajracharya R(1), Katzke V(1), Mukama T(1), Kaaks R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Epidemiology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 
69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

Ecological studies showed correlations between a shift toward 
animal-protein-rich diets and longer life-expectancy; however, only a few 
studies examined individual-level association of protein source and mortality 
risks using appropriate iso-caloric substitution models adjusted for total 
energy intake. We used EPIC-Heidelberg (European Prospective Investigation into 
Cancer and nutrition) to create iso-caloric substitution models and determined 
relative all-cause, cardiovascular and cancer mortality hazards associated with 
dietary intake of animal protein and other macronutrients, employing Cox 
proportional hazard models. For comparison with other studies, we also 
synthesized evidence from a systematic review relating animal protein intake to 
mortality risk from seven prospective cohort studies in the USA, Europe and 
Japan. Substitution of 3% of total energy from animal protein for fat 
(saturated, mono-unsaturated) and carbohydrate (simple, complex) was associated 
with all-cause mortality (Hazard Ratios [HR] from 1.05 to 1.11), mostly driven 
by cardiovascular mortality (HR from 1.13 to 1.15). Independently of animal 
protein, substituting poly-unsaturated fat for saturated fat increased 
cancer-related mortality risk by 12 percent. The systematic review largely 
corroborated our findings. Overall, higher proportions of dietary energy from 
animal protein, combined with low energy intake from either carbohydrate 
sub-types or dietary fats, increases all-cause and cardiovascular mortality 
risks, but not cancer-related mortality.

DOI: 10.3390/nu15030794
PMCID: PMC9920011
PMID: 36771499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


946. Plants (Basel). 2023 Jan 23;12(3):526. doi: 10.3390/plants12030526.

Effects of Date Palm Waste Compost Application on Root Proteome Changes of 
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.).

Ghouili E(1), Sassi K(2), Hidri Y(3), M'Hamed HC(4), Somenahally A(5), Xue Q(6), 
Jebara M(1), Nefissi Ouertani R(7), Riahi J(2), de Oliveira AC(8), Abid G(1), 
Muhovski Y(8).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Legumes and Sustainable Agrosystems, Centre of Biotechnology of 
Borj-Cedria, (L2AD, CBBC), P.O. Box 901, Hammam-Lif 2050, Tunisia.
(2)Laboratory of Agronomy, National Agronomy Institute of Tunisia (INAT), 
University of Carthage, Avenue Charles Nicolle, Tunis-Mahrajène, P.O. Box 43, 
Tunis 1082, Tunisia.
(3)Laboratory of Integrated Olive Production in the Humid, Sub-humid and 
Semi-arid Region (LR16IO3), Olive Tree Institute, Cité Mahragène, P.O. Box 208, 
Tunis 1082, Tunisia.
(4)Agronomy Laboratory, National Institute of Agronomic Research of Tunis 
(INRAT), Carthage University, Hedi Karray Street, Ariana 2049, Tunisia.
(5)Department of Soil and Crop Sciences, Texas A&M University, 370 Olsen Blvd, 
College Station, TX 77843-2474, USA.
(6)Texas A&M AgriLife Research and Extension Center, Amarillo, TX 79403-6603, 
USA.
(7)Laboratory of Plant Molecular Physiology, Centre of Biotechnology of Borj 
Cedria, P.O. Box 901, Hammam-Lif 2050, Tunisia.
(8)Biological Engineering Unit, Department of Life Sciences, Walloon 
Agricultural Research Centre, Chaussée de Charleroi, P.O. Box 234, 5030 
Gembloux, Belgium.

Proteomic analysis was performed to investigate the differentially abundant 
proteins (DAPs) in barley roots during the tillering stage. Bioinformatic tools 
were used to interpret the biological function, the pathway analysis and the 
visualisation of the network amongst the identified proteins. A total of 72 DAPs 
(33 upregulated and 39 downregulated) among a total of 2580 proteins were 
identified in response to compost treatment, suggesting multiple pathways of 
primary and secondary metabolism, such as carbohydrates and energy metabolism, 
phenylpropanoid pathway, glycolysis pathway, protein synthesis and degradation, 
redox homeostasis, RNA processing, stress response, cytoskeleton organisation, 
and phytohormone metabolic pathways. The expression of DAPs was further 
validated by qRT-PCR. The effects on barley plant development, such as the 
promotion of root growth and biomass increase, were associated with a change in 
energy metabolism and protein synthesis. The activation of enzymes involved in 
redox homeostasis and the regulation of stress response proteins suggest a 
protective effect of compost, consequently improving barley growth and stress 
acclimation through the reduction of the environmental impact of productive 
agriculture. Overall, these results may facilitate a better understanding of the 
molecular mechanism of compost-promoted plant growth and provide valuable 
information for the identification of critical genes/proteins in barley as 
potential targets of compost.

DOI: 10.3390/plants12030526
PMCID: PMC9921465
PMID: 36771612

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


947. Plants (Basel). 2023 Jan 29;12(3):600. doi: 10.3390/plants12030600.

Response of Maize Varieties (Zea mays L.) to the Application of Classic and 
Stabilized Nitrogen Fertilizers-Nitrogen as a Predictor of Generative Yield.

Szulc P(1), Krauklis D(2), Ambroży-Deręgowska K(3), Wróbel B(4), Niedbała G(5), 
Niazian M(6), Selwet M(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agronomy, Poznań University of Life Sciences, Dojazd 11, 60-632 
Poznań, Poland.
(2)Experimental Station for the Cultivar Testing in Chrząstowo, Research Centre 
for Cultivar Testing in Słupia Wielka, Chrząstowo 8, 89-100 Nakło nad Notecią, 
Poland.
(3)Department of Mathematical and Statistical Methods, Poznań University of Life 
Sciences, Wojska Polskiego 28, 60-637 Poznań, Poland.
(4)Institute of Technology and Life Sciences-National Research Institute, 3 
Hrabska Avenue, 05-090 Raszyn, Poland.
(5)Department of Biosystems Engineering, Faculty of Environmental and Mechanical 
Engineering, Poznań University of Life Sciences, Wojska Polskiego 50, 60-627 
Poznań, Poland.
(6)Field and Horticultural Crops Research Department, Kurdistan Agricultural and 
Natural Resources Research and Education Center, Agricultural Research, 
Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Sanandaj 6616936311, Iran.
(7)Department of Soil Science and Microbiology, Poznań University of Life 
Sciences, Szydłowska 50, 60-656 Poznań, Poland.

The study presents the results of a 3-year field trial aimed at assessing the 
yield and efficiency indicators of nitrogen application in the cultivation of 
three maize cultivars differing in agronomic and genetic profile. The advantages 
of the UltraGrain stabilo formulation (NBPT and NPPT) over ammonium nitrate and 
urea are apparent if a maize cultivar capable of efficient nutrient uptake in 
the pre-flowering period and effective utilization during the grain filling 
stage is selected. Therefore, the rational fertilization of maize with 
urea-based nitrogen fertilizer with a urease inhibitor requires the simultaneous 
selection of cultivars that are physiologically profiled for efficient nitrogen 
utilization from this form of fertilizer ("stay-green" cultivar). The 
interaction of a selective cultivar with a high genetically targeted potential 
for nitrogen uptake from soil, combined with a targeted selection of nitrogen 
fertilizer, is important not only in terms of production, but also environmental 
and economic purposes.

DOI: 10.3390/plants12030600
PMCID: PMC9919166
PMID: 36771683

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


948. Sensors (Basel). 2023 Jan 23;23(3):1294. doi: 10.3390/s23031294.

Simulating IoT Workflows in DISSECT-CF-Fog.

Markus A(1), Al-Haboobi A(2)(3), Kecskemeti G(2), Kertesz A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Software Engineering, University of Szeged, 6720 Szeged, 
Hungary.
(2)Institute of Information Technology, University of Miskolc, 3515 Miskolc, 
Hungary.
(3)Faculty of Computer Science and Mathematics, University of Kufa, Najaf 54001, 
Iraq.

The modelling of IoT applications utilising the resources of cloud and fog 
computing is not straightforward because they have to support various 
trigger-based events that make human life easier. The sequence of tasks, such as 
performing a service call, receiving a data packet in the form of a message sent 
by an IoT device, and managing actuators or executing a computational task on a 
virtual machine, are often associated with and composed of IoT workflows. The 
development and deployment of such IoT workflows and their management systems in 
real life, including communication and network operations, can be complicated 
due to high operation costs and access limitations. Therefore, simulation 
solutions are often applied for such purposes. In this paper, we introduce a 
novel simulator extension of the DISSECT-CF-Fog simulator that leverages the 
workflow scheduling and its execution capabilities to model real-life IoT use 
cases. We also show that state-of-the-art simulators typically omit the IoT 
factor in the case of the scientific workflow evaluation. Therefore, we present 
a scalability study focusing on scientific workflows and on the interoperability 
of scientific and IoT workflows in DISSECT-CF-Fog.

DOI: 10.3390/s23031294
PMCID: PMC9919185
PMID: 36772335

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


949. Sensors (Basel). 2023 Jan 25;23(3):1332. doi: 10.3390/s23031332.

DSF Core: Integrated Decision Support for Optimal Scheduling of Lifetime 
Extension Strategies for Industrial Equipment.

Kolokas N(1), Ioannidis D(1), Tzovaras D(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research and Technology Hellas, Information Technologies 
Institute, 57001 Thessaloniki, Greece.

This paper proposes a generic algorithm for industries with degrading and/or 
failing equipment with significant consequences. Based on the specifications and 
the real-time status of the production line, the algorithm provides decision 
support to machinery operators and manufacturers about the appropriate lifetime 
extension strategies to apply, the optimal time-frame for the implementation of 
each and the relevant machine components. The relevant recommendations of the 
algorithm are selected by comparing smartly chosen alternatives after 
simulation-based life cycle evaluation of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), 
considering the short-term and long-term impact of decisions on these economic 
and environmental KPIs. This algorithm requires various inputs, some of which 
may be calculated by third-party algorithms, so it may be viewed as the ultimate 
algorithm of an overall Decision Support Framework (DSF). Thus, it is called 
"DSF Core". The algorithm was applied successfully to three heterogeneous 
industrial pilots. The results indicate that compared to the lightest possible 
corrective strategy application policy, following the optimal preventive 
strategy application policy proposed by this algorithm can reduce the KPI 
penalties due to stops (i.e., failures and strategies) and production 
inefficiency by 30-40%.

DOI: 10.3390/s23031332
PMCID: PMC9920745
PMID: 36772372

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


950. Sensors (Basel). 2023 Feb 3;23(3):1697. doi: 10.3390/s23031697.

ECG Classification Using an Optimal Temporal Convolutional Network for Remote 
Health Monitoring.

Ismail AR(1), Jovanovic S(1), Ramzan N(2), Rabah H(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut Jean Lamour (UMR 7198), University of Lorraine, 54011 Nancy, France.
(2)School of Computing, Engineering and Physical Sciences, University of the 
West of Scotland, Paisley PA1 2BE, UK.

Increased life expectancy in most countries is a result of continuous 
improvements at all levels, starting from medicine and public health services, 
environmental and personal hygiene to the use of the most advanced technologies 
by healthcare providers. Despite these significant improvements, especially at 
the technological level in the last few decades, the overall access to 
healthcare services and medical facilities worldwide is not equally distributed. 
Indeed, the end beneficiary of these most advanced healthcare services and 
technologies on a daily basis are mostly residents of big cities, whereas the 
residents of rural areas, even in developed countries, have major difficulties 
accessing even basic medical services. This may lead to huge deficiencies in 
timely medical advice and assistance and may even cause death in some cases. 
Remote healthcare is considered a serious candidate for facilitating access to 
health services for all; thus, by using the most advanced technologies, 
providing at the same time high quality diagnosis and ease of implementation and 
use. ECG analysis and related cardiac diagnosis techniques are the basic 
healthcare methods providing rapid insights in potential health issues through 
simple visualization and interpretation by clinicians or by automatic detection 
of potential cardiac anomalies. In this paper, we propose a novel machine 
learning (ML) architecture for the ECG classification regarding five heart 
diseases based on temporal convolution networks (TCN). The proposed design, 
which implements a dilated causal one-dimensional convolution on the input 
heartbeat signals, seems to be outperforming all existing ML methods with an 
accuracy of 96.12% and an F1 score of 84.13%, using a reduced number of 
parameters (10.2 K). Such results make the proposed TCN architecture a good 
candidate for low power consumption hardware platforms, and thus its potential 
use in low cost embedded devices for remote health monitoring.

DOI: 10.3390/s23031697
PMCID: PMC9920651
PMID: 36772737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


951. Sensors (Basel). 2023 Feb 3;23(3):1744. doi: 10.3390/s23031744.

Evaluating IoT-Based Services to Support Patient Empowerment in Digital Home 
Hospitalization Services.

Abril-Jiménez P(1), Merino-Barbancho B(1), Fico G(1), Martín Guirado JC(1), 
Vera-Muñoz C(1), Mallo I(1), Lombroni I(1), Cabrera Umpierrez MF(1), Arredondo 
Waldmeyer MT(1).

Author information:
(1)Life Supporting Technologies Research Group, Escuela Técnica Superior de 
Ingenieros de Telecomunicación (ETSIT), Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, Avda 
Complutense 30, 28040 Madrid, Spain.

Hospitals need to optimize patient care, as, among other factors, life 
expectancy has increased due to improvements in sanitation, nutrition, and 
medicines. Hospitalization-at-home (HaH) could increase admission efficiency, 
moderate costs, and reduce the demand for beds. This study aimed to provide data 
on the feasibility, acceptability, and effectiveness of the integration of 
IoT-based technology to support the remote monitoring and follow-up of patients 
admitted to HaH units, as well as the acceptability of IoT-based solutions in 
healthcare processes. The need for a reduction in the number of admission days, 
the percentage of admissions after discharge, and the actions of the emergency 
services during admission were the most relevant findings of this study. 
Furthermore, in terms of patient safety and trust perception, 98% of patients 
preferred this type of digitally-supported hospitalization model and up to 95% 
were very satisfied. On the professional side, the results showed a reduction in 
work overload and an increase in trust when the system was adopted.

DOI: 10.3390/s23031744
PMCID: PMC9919249
PMID: 36772784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interest.


952. Pulm Ther. 2023 Jun;9(2):177-193. doi: 10.1007/s41030-023-00216-0. Epub 2023
Feb  11.

Early Diagnosis and Treatment of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis: A Narrative 
Review.

Alsomali H(1), Palmer E(2), Aujayeb A(3), Funston W(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medical Sciences, Newcastle University, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NE1 
7RU, UK.
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, The Newcastle Upon Tyne Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NE1 4LP, UK. e.palmer7@nhs.net.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Northumbria Healthcare NHS Trust, 
Northumbria Way, Cramlington, NE23 6NZ, UK.
(4)Department of Respiratory Medicine, The Newcastle Upon Tyne Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NE1 4LP, UK.

Erratum in
    Pulm Ther. 2023 Sep;9(3):459.

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic, progressive fibrosing 
interstitial lung disease of unknown aetiology. Patients typically present with 
symptoms of chronic dyspnoea and cough over a period of months to years. IPF has 
a poor prognosis, with an average life expectancy of 3-5 years from diagnosis if 
left untreated. Two anti-fibrotic medications (nintedanib and pirfenidone) have 
been approved for the treatment of IPF. These drugs slow disease progression by 
reducing decline in lung function. Early diagnosis is crucial to ensure timely 
treatment selection and improve outcomes. High-resolution computed tomography 
(HRCT) plays a major role in the diagnosis of IPF. In this narrative review, we 
discuss the importance of early diagnosis, awareness among primary care 
physicians, lung cancer screening programmes and early IPF detection, and 
barriers to accessing anti-fibrotic medications.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s41030-023-00216-0
PMCID: PMC10203082
PMID: 36773130

Conflict of interest statement: Hana Alsomali, Evelyn Palmer, Avinash Aujayeb 
and Wendy Funston have nothing to disclose.


953. J Clin Epidemiol. 2023 Apr;156:22-29. doi: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2023.02.011.
Epub  2023 Feb 10.

Sponsorship bias in oncology cost effectiveness analysis.

Zhou T(1), Xie F(2).

Author information:
(1)School of International Pharmaceutical Business, China Pharmaceutical 
University, Nanjing, China; Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and 
Impact (formerly Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics), Faculty of Health 
Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact (formerly 
Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics), Faculty of Health Sciences, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; Centre for Health Economics and Policy 
Analysis (CHEPA), Faculty of Health Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, 
Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: fengxie@mcmaster.ca.

OBJECTIVES: Cost effectiveness analysis (CEA) has been increasingly used to 
inform cancer treatment coverage policy making worldwide. The primary objective 
of this study was to assess the association between industry sponsorship and CEA 
results in oncology.
STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: All CEAs in oncology used incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) as health effect identified from the Tufts CEA 
Registry since 1976 was analyzed. Descriptive analyses were performed to present 
and compare the characteristics of CEA funded by industry and non-industry. 
Robust logistic regression was performed to assess the relationship between the 
industry sponsorship and cost effective conclusion over a wide range of 
threshold values.
RESULTS: A total of 1537 CEAs in oncology published from 1976 to 2021 were 
included. There were 387 (25.2%) with the industry sponsorship. CEAs sponsored 
by the industry were more likely to report ICERs below $50,000/QALY (adjusted 
odds ratio (OR), 1.91, 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.45-2.51, P < 0.001), 
$100,000/QALY (2.74, 1.98-3.79, P < 0.001), and $150,000/QALY (3.53, 2.37-5.27, 
P < 0.001) than studies without industry sponsorship.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that there has been a significant sponsorship 
bias in CEAs in oncology. This bias could have a profound implication on drug 
pricing and coverage policy making.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2023.02.011
PMID: 36773749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. J Control Release. 2023 Mar;355:515-527. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2023.02.005.
 Epub 2023 Feb 14.

Comparison of HER2-targeted affibody conjugates loaded with auristatin- and 
maytansine-derived drugs.

Yin W(1), Xu T(2), Ding H(3), Zhang J(4), Bodenko V(5), Tretyakova MS(5), 
Belousov MV(6), Liu Y(7), Oroujeni M(8), Orlova A(9), Tolmachev V(10), Gräslund 
T(11), Vorobyeva A(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Protein Science, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, 
Roslagstullsbacken 21, 114 17 Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: 
wenyin@kth.se.
(2)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University, 751 85 
Uppsala, Sweden. Electronic address: tianqi.xu@igp.uu.se.
(3)Department of Protein Science, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, 
Roslagstullsbacken 21, 114 17 Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: 
haozhong@kth.se.
(4)Department of Protein Science, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, 
Roslagstullsbacken 21, 114 17 Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: 
jiezha@kth.se.
(5)Research Centrum for Oncotheranostics, Research School of Chemistry and 
Applied Biomedical Sciences, Tomsk Polytechnic University, 634050 Tomsk, Russia.
(6)Siberian State Medical University, Ministry of Health of the Russian 
Federation, 634050 Tomsk, Russia; National Research Tomsk Polytechnic 
University, 634050 Tomsk, Russia.
(7)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University, 751 85 
Uppsala, Sweden. Electronic address: yongsheng.liu@igp.uu.se.
(8)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University, 751 85 
Uppsala, Sweden. Electronic address: maryam.oroujeni@igp.uu.se.
(9)Research Centrum for Oncotheranostics, Research School of Chemistry and 
Applied Biomedical Sciences, Tomsk Polytechnic University, 634050 Tomsk, Russia; 
Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Uppsala University, 751 23 Uppsala, Sweden; 
Science for Life Laboratory, Uppsala University, 751 23 Uppsala, Sweden. 
Electronic address: anna.orlova@ilk.uu.se.
(10)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University, 751 85 
Uppsala, Sweden; Research Centrum for Oncotheranostics, Research School of 
Chemistry and Applied Biomedical Sciences, Tomsk Polytechnic University, 634050 
Tomsk, Russia. Electronic address: vladimir.tolmachev@igp.uu.se.
(11)Department of Protein Science, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, 
Roslagstullsbacken 21, 114 17 Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: 
torbjorn@kth.se.
(12)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University, 751 85 
Uppsala, Sweden. Electronic address: anzhelika.vorobyeva@igp.uu.se.

Treatment with antibody drug conjugates targeting receptors over-expressed on 
cancer cells is well established for clinical use in several types of cancer, 
however, resistance often occurs motivating the development of novel drugs. We 
