(16)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, Seattle, WA, USA.
(17)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, Seattle, WA, USA; Department of 
Health Metrics Sciences, School of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, 
WA, USA.
(18)Department of Internal Medicine, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: South America's substance use profile, poverty, income inequality, 
and cocaine-supplier role make it a unique place for substance use research. 
This study investigated the burden of disease attributable to amphetamine use 
disorder, cannabis use disorder (CAD), cocaine use disorder, and opioid use 
disorder (OUD) in South America from 1990 to 2019, on the basis of the Global 
Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2019.
METHODS: GBD 2019 estimated the incidence, prevalence, mortality, years of life 
lost (YLL), years of life lived with disability (YLD), and disability-adjusted 
life-years (DALYs) due to substance use disorders in each of the 12 South 
American countries (Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, 
Guyana, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Uruguay, and Venezuela). Data were modelled 
using standardised tools (ie, the Cause of Death Ensemble model, spatio-temporal 
Gaussian process regression, and disease modelling meta-regression) to generate 
estimates of each quantity of interest by sex, location, and year. The analysis 
included comparisons by sex and country, and against regional and global 
estimates.
FINDINGS: In 2019, the highest amphetamine use disorder burden per 100 000 
population in South America was in Peru (66 DALYs). CAD DALY rates per 100 000 
in South America were stable between 1990 and 2019, except in Chile and 
Colombia, which had the highest rates in 2019 (19 DALYs for Chile and 18 DALYs 
for Colombia). OUD DALYs per 100 000 increased during the period in Brazil and 
Peru, which in 2019 had the highest rates in South America (82 DALYs for Brazil 
and 70 DALYs for Peru). In 2019, Brazil had the highest cocaine use disorder 
DALYs per 100 000 (45 DALYs), nearly double its rate in 1990. DALY rates were 
higher in males than females for each substance use disorder, except in 
Paraguay. The overall burden of substance use disorders was higher in males than 
in females, mainly because of cocaine use disorder and CAD, whereas for 
amphetamine use disorder, the difference between sexes was minimal, and for OUD 
there was no difference. For males and females, the highest rate of substance 
use disorders DALYs per 100 000 was for OUD except in Argentina (in males, 58 
DALYs for cocaine use disorder vs 52 DALYs for OUD) and in Paraguay (in females, 
77 for amphetamine use disorder vs 50 for OUD). CAD DALY rates were generally 
the lowest among the substance use disorders for males and females. Amphetamine 
use disorder YLD rates were reasonably stable throughout the period and were 
highest in Peru, Paraguay, and Uruguay (>40 YLD per 100 000). For CAD, YLD rates 
were stable in all countries except Chile and Colombia. Cocaine use disorder YLD 
rates per 100 000 for the top four countries (Argentina, Uruguay, Chile, and 
Brazil) increased from 1990 to 2010 (eg, from 19 to 33 in Brazil), but decreased 
between 2010 and 2019 (eg, from 36 to 31 in Chile). For OUD, YLD rates showed a 
slight increase in most countries apart from Brazil, which increased from 52 in 
1990 to 80 in 2019 and was top among the countries. Amphetamine use disorder YLL 
rates per 100 000 were highest in Suriname and Peru during the period, although 
in Suriname it increased from 2·7 in 2010 to 3·2 in 2019, whereas in Peru it 
decreased from 2·1 to 1·7. The highest YLL rate for cocaine use disorder was in 
Brazil, which increased from 3·7 in 1990 to 18·1 in 2019. Between 2000 and 2019, 
Chile and Uruguay showed the highest OUD YLL rates (11·6 for Chile and 10·9 for 
Uruguay). A high incidence of CAD was found in Chile, Colombia, Guyana, and 
Suriname. There were high incidences of amphetamine use disorder in Paraguay, 
cocaine use disorder in Argentina, and OUD in Ecuador. A decrease in annual 
prevalence for substance use disorders during the period was observed in 
Venezuela (amphetamine use disorder, CAD, and OUD), Brazil (CAD and amphetamine 
use disorder), Colombia (amphetamine use disorder and cocaine use disorder), 
Peru (amphetamine use disorder and cocaine use disorder), Chile and Suriname 
(amphetamine use disorder), Uruguay (CAD), and Bolivia (OUD). Overall, the 
cocaine use disorder burden stabilised then decreased. OUD was less prevalent 
than other substance use disorders but its burden was the highest.
INTERPRETATION: The decrease in the burden of cocaine use disorder probably 
reflects the success of national standardised treatment programmes. Programmes 
for amphetamine use disorder, CAD, and OUD management should be improved. We did 
not find an increase in CAD burden in Uruguay, the country with the highest 
degree of cannabis decriminalisation in the region. Countries in South America 
should improve monitoring of substance use disorders, including regular surveys 
to provide more accurate data on which to base policy decisions.
FUNDING: The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2215-0366(22)00339-X
PMCID: PMC9870787
PMID: 36697127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests JMC-M reports grants 
from the French National Institute for Cancer, Pfizer, and Sanofi, and 
consulting fees from L'Oreal, all outside of the submitted work. ARB reports 
grants from the São Paulo Research State Foundation, outside of the submitted 
work. Y-PW reports support for attending meetings or travel from the Department 
of Psychiatry, Medical School, University of Sao Paulo and from Lundbeck Brasil, 
and payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing, or educational events from Meda Pharma. All other authors 
declare no competing interests.


752. Arch Med Res. 2023 Feb;54(2):152-159. doi: 10.1016/j.arcmed.2022.12.013.
Epub  2023 Jan 24.

Burden, Incidence, Mortality and Lethality of Maternal Disorders in Mexico 
1990-2019: An Analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

Montoya A(1), Lozano R(2), Sanchez-Dominguez M(3), Fritz J(3), Lamadrid-Figueroa 
H(4).

Author information:
(1)Gerencia de Análisis Estadístico y Minería de Datos, Fundación Carlos Slim. 
Ciudad de México, México.
(2)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, Cuernavaca, Morelos, México.
(4)Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, Cuernavaca, Morelos, México. Electronic 
address: hlamadrid@insp.mx.

BACKGROUND: Estimates of the sub-national distribution of maternal disorders in 
Mexico beyond Maternal Mortality Ratios are scarce. Characterizing the 
sub-national variation of maternal disorders may make it possible to focus more 
on interventions and thereby reduce their occurrence in a more meaningful and 
sustained manner.
AIM: To analyze and describe the sub-national distribution, magnitude, trends 
and changes in the contribution of maternal causes to women's loss of health in 
Mexico from 1990-2019.
METHODS: Using estimates from the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2019 study, we 
describe the distribution and trends of maternal mortality ratio (MMR), 
mortality rate, case-fatality rate and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) 
due to maternal causes, at both national and state levels.
RESULTS: Between 1990 and 2019, DALYs attributable to maternal causes had 
decreased 59.5%, mortality 63.8%, and incidence 46.5%. However, Maternal 
Mortality Ratio only decreased by 33%. The case-fatality rate of maternal 
disorders decreased by 50% overall; although for obstructed labor and uterine 
rupture, it remained unchanged. Lethality showed great variation between states, 
with a 3 fold difference between the maximum and minimum values.
CONCLUSIONS: Although mortality and incidence of maternal causes in Mexico have 
greatly decreased in the last 30 years, these changes mostly reflect declines in 
fertility. The decrease seen in case-fatality rates is driven by decreases in 
causes such as hypertension and hemorrhage, though for others it remained 
constant. Efforts should be directed at improving access to, and management of, 
locally frequent maternal emergencies, formulating tailor-made regional 
interventions for maternal health.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcmed.2022.12.013
PMID: 36697308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Commun Chem. 2022 Mar 16;5(1):34. doi: 10.1038/s42004-022-00649-9.

Advanced preparation of fragment libraries enabled by oligonucleotide-modified 
2',3'-dideoxynucleotides.

Medžiūnė J(#)(1)(2), Kapustina Ž(#)(3)(4), Žeimytė S(3), Jakubovska J(3), 
Sindikevičienė R(3), Čikotienė I(3)(5), Lubys A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Research and Development, Thermo Fisher Scientific Baltics, 
Vilnius, LT-02241, Lithuania. justina.medziune@thermofisher.com.
(2)Faculty of Chemistry and Geosciences, Vilnius University, Vilnius, LT-03225, 
Lithuania. justina.medziune@thermofisher.com.
(3)Department of Research and Development, Thermo Fisher Scientific Baltics, 
Vilnius, LT-02241, Lithuania.
(4)Institute of Biosciences, Life Sciences Center, Vilnius University, Vilnius, 
LT-10257, Lithuania.
(5)Faculty of Chemistry and Geosciences, Vilnius University, Vilnius, LT-03225, 
Lithuania.
(#)Contributed equally

The ever-growing demand for inexpensive, rapid, and accurate exploration of 
genomes calls for refinement of existing sequencing techniques. The development 
of next-generation sequencing (NGS) was a revolutionary milestone in genome 
analysis. While modified nucleotides already were inherent tools in sequencing 
and imaging, further modification of nucleotides enabled the expansion into even 
more diverse applications. Herein we describe the design and synthesis of 
oligonucleotide-tethered 2',3'-dideoxynucleotide (ddONNTP) terminators bearing 
universal priming sites attached to the nucleobase, as well as their enzymatic 
incorporation and performance in read-through assays. In the context of NGS 
library preparation, the incorporation of ddONNTP fulfills two requirements at 
once: the fragmentation step is integrated into the workflow and the obtained 
fragments are readily labeled by platform-specific adapters. DNA polymerases can 
incorporate ddONNTP nucleotides, as shown by primer extension assays. More 
importantly, reading through the unnatural linkage during DNA synthesis was 
demonstrated, with 25-30% efficiency in single-cycle extension.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s42004-022-00649-9
PMCID: PMC9814608
PMID: 36697673

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following competing 
financial interests: J.M., Ž.K., S.Ž., J.J., R.S., I.Č., and A.L. are employees 
of Thermo Fisher Scientific Baltics. A patent covering oligonucleotide-tethered 
nucleotides and their uses is pending; patent application assigned to Thermo 
Fisher Scientific, J.M., Ž.K., S.Ž., I.Č., and A.L. are among the inventors.


754. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2023 Jan 25;23(1):45. doi:
10.1186/s12872-023-03073-6.

Cost-effectiveness of an insertable cardiac monitor in a high-risk population in 
the US.

Elkind MSV(1), Witte KK(2)(3), Kasner SE(4), Sawyer LM(5), Grimsey Jones FW(6), 
Rinciog C(6), Tsintzos S(7), Rosemas SC(7), Lanctin D(7), Ziegler PD(7), 
Reynolds MR(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, and 
Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia 
University, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Leeds Institute for Cardiovascular and Metabolic Medicine, University of 
Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(3)University Clinic, RWTH, Aachen, Germany.
(4)Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(5)Symmetron Limited, 8 Devonshire Square, London, EC2M 4PL, UK. 
lsawyer@symmetron.net.
(6)Symmetron Limited, 8 Devonshire Square, London, EC2M 4PL, UK.
(7)Medtronic, Mounds View, MN, USA.
(8)Baim Institute for Clinical Research, Boston, MA, USA.
(9)Lahey Hospital and Medical Center, Burlington, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Insertable cardiac monitors (ICMs) are a clinically effective means 
of detecting atrial fibrillation (AF) in high-risk patients, and guiding the 
initiation of non-vitamin K oral anticoagulants (NOACs). Their 
cost-effectiveness from a US clinical payer perspective is not yet known. The 
objective of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of ICMs compared 
to standard of care (SoC) for detecting AF in patients at high risk of stroke 
(CHADS2 ≥ 2), in the US.
METHODS: Using patient data from the REVEAL AF trial (n = 393, average CHADS2 
score = 2.9), a Markov model estimated the lifetime costs and benefits of 
detecting AF with an ICM or with SoC (specifically intermittent use of 
electrocardiograms and 24-h Holter monitors). Ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes, 
intra- and extra-cranial hemorrhages, and minor bleeds were modelled. Diagnostic 
and device costs, costs of treating stroke and bleeding events and medical 
therapy-specifically costs of NOACs were included. Costs and health outcomes, 
measured as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), were discounted at 3% per 
annum, in line with standard practice in the US setting. One-way deterministic 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyses (PSA) were undertaken.
RESULTS: Lifetime per-patient cost for ICM was $31,116 versus $25,330 for SoC. 
ICMs generated a total of 7.75 QALYs versus 7.59 for SoC, with 34 fewer strokes 
projected per 1000 patients. The model estimates a number needed to treat of 29 
per stroke avoided. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $35,528 per 
QALY gained. ICMs were cost-effective in 75% of PSA simulations, using a $50,000 
per QALY threshold, and a 100% probability of being cost-effective at a WTP 
threshold of $150,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of ICMs to identify AF in a high-risk population is likely 
to be cost-effective in the US healthcare setting.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12872-023-03073-6
PMCID: PMC9875401
PMID: 36698055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CR, LS and FG are employed by Symmetron Ltd, 
which received funding from Medtronic for this analysis. KW has received 
unconditional research funding from Medtronic to the University of Leeds for a 
Ph.D. Fellowship program and consultancy or speaker fees from Medtronic, 
Novartis, AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Napp, Abbott, Cardiac Dimensions, Microport. MR 
has received consultancy fees from Medtronic. SK has received consultancy fees 
from Medtronic and Bristol-Myers Squibb. ME’s institution received funding for 
his participation in these analyses, and ME receives study drug in kind but no 
personal compensation from the BMS-Pfizer Alliance for Eliquis and ancillary 
research funding from Roche, both for a National Institutes of Health-funded 
trial of stroke prevention in patients with atrial cardiopathy. SR, PZ, DL, and 
ST are Medtronic employees. The REVEAL AF study and this cost-effectiveness 
analysis were funded by Medtronic.


755. Adv Life Course Res. 2020 Sep;45:100257. doi: 10.1016/j.alcr.2018.11.003.
Epub  2018 Nov 16.

Grandparenthood in China and Western Europe: An analysis of CHARLS and SHARE.

Zhang J(1), Emery T(2), Dykstra P(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Administration and Sociology, Erasmus School of Social 
and Behavioral Sciences (ESSB), Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands. Electronic address: j.zhang@essb.eur.nl.
(2)Department of Public Administration and Sociology, Erasmus School of Social 
and Behavioral Sciences (ESSB), Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands; Netherlands Interdisciplinary Demographic Institute (NIDI-KNAW), 
the Hague, University of Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Public Administration and Sociology, Erasmus School of Social 
and Behavioral Sciences (ESSB), Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.

Grandparenthood is a fascinating research area that not only brings together 
three generations and multiple roles in different life domains, but also echoes 
social contexts across historical times and places. Comparative research on 
grandparenthood, however, rarely includes non-western countries. This article 
seeks to answer the question of how grandparenthood differs between Western 
Europe and China by using comparable representative surveys of older adults. We 
extend the literature in two ways by showing that: 1) compared to Western 
Europe, becoming a grandparent occurs earlier and is virtually universal in both 
Urban and Rural China - the probability of being a grandparent is over 80% for 
Chinese by the time they are 55, while the same cannot be said for Western 
Europeans until they are aged between 70 and 80; and 2) the role-overlaps with 
grandparenthood are different for older Chinese and Western Europeans. The 
probability of being a working grandparent in Rural China is about twice that in 
Western Europe, while the rate is similar to Western Europeans for Urban 
Chinese. Chinese grandparents are also more likely to live with their children 
than Western Europeans. Conversely, as all family transitions come earlier for 
Chinese but life expectancy is shorter, the probabilities that grandparenthood 
overlaps with widowhood and filial roles are similar to that in Western Europe. 
Taken together, this study provides an overarching picture of the 
characteristics of grandparenthood in different societies that are fundamental 
to the meaning, performance, and impact of grandparental roles and relevant to a 
better understanding of grandparenthood worldwide.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.alcr.2018.11.003
PMID: 36698270


756. Front Nutr. 2023 Jan 9;9:957688. doi: 10.3389/fnut.2022.957688. eCollection 
2022.

The different trends in the burden of neurological and mental disorders 
following dietary transition in China, the USA, and the world: An extension 
analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

Liang S(1)(2)(3), Wang L(4), Wu X(1)(3), Hu X(1)(3), Wang T(1)(3), Jin F(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Mental Health, Institute of Psychology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Microbial Physiological and Metabolic Engineering, 
Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)Gut-brain Psychology Laboratory, Beijing, China.
(4)Department for the History of Science and Scientific Archaeology, University 
of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui, China.

INTRODUCTION: The highly processed western diet is substituting the 
low-processed traditional diet in the last decades globally. Increasing research 
found that a diet with poor quality such as western diet disrupts gut microbiota 
and increases the susceptibility to various neurological and mental disorders, 
while a balanced diet regulates gut microbiota and prevents and alleviates the 
neurological and mental disorders. Yet, there is limited research on the 
association between the disease burden expanding of neurological and mental 
disorders with a dietary transition.
METHODS: We compared the disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) trend by age for 
neurological and mental disorders in China, in the United States of America 
(USA), and across the world from 1990 to 2019, evaluated the dietary transition 
in the past 60 years, and analyzed the association between the burden trend of 
the two disorders with the changes in diet composition and food production.
RESULTS: We identified an age-related upward pattern in disease burden in China. 
Compared with the USA and the world, the Chinese neurological and mental 
disorders DALY percent was least in the generation over 75 but rapidly increased 
in younger generations and surpassed the USA and/or the world in the last 
decades. The age-related upward pattern in Chinese disease burdens had not only 
shown in the presence of cardiovascular diseases, neoplasms, and diabetes 
mellitus but also appeared in the presence of depressive disorders, Parkinson's 
disease, Alzheimer's disease and other dementias, schizophrenia, headache 
disorders, anxiety disorders, conduct disorders, autism spectrum disorders, and 
eating disorders, successively. Additionally, the upward trend was associated 
with the dramatic dietary transition including a reduction in dietary quality 
and food production sustainability, during which the younger generation is more 
affected than the older. Following the increase in total calorie intake, alcohol 
intake, ratios of animal to vegetal foods, and poultry meat to pulses, the 
burdens of the above diseases continuously rose. Then, following the rise of the 
ratios of meat to pulses, eggs to pulses, and pork to pulses, the usage of 
fertilizers, the farming density of pigs, and the burdens of the above disease 
except diabetes mellitus were also ever-increasing. Even the usage of pesticides 
was positively correlated with the burdens of Parkinson's disease, 
schizophrenia, cardiovascular diseases, and neoplasms. Contrary to China, the 
corresponding burdens of the USA trended to reduce with the improvements in diet 
quality and food production sustainability.
DISCUSSION: Our results suggest that improving diet quality and food production 
sustainability might be a promising way to stop the expanding burdens of 
neurological and mental disorders.

Copyright © 2023 Liang, Wang, Wu, Hu, Wang and Jin.

DOI: 10.3389/fnut.2022.957688
PMCID: PMC9869872
PMID: 36698474

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


757. Front Neurol. 2023 Jan 9;13:1076316. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2022.1076316. 
eCollection 2022.

Multisystem compensations and consequences in spastic quadriplegic cerebral 
palsy children.

Wahyuni LK(1).

Author information:
(1)Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Department, Dr. Cipto Mangunkusumo 
Hospital - Faculty of Medicine Universitas Indonesia, Jakarta, Indonesia.

Spastic quadriplegic cerebral palsy (CP) is a permanent neuromuscular disorder 
causing limitation on all four limbs following a lesion on the developing brain. 
Most children with spastic quadriplegic CP are identified to be Gross Motor 
Function Classification System (GMFCS) level V, thus they have more 
comorbidities compared to other types at lower levels. Spastic quadriplegic CP 
is characterized by weak and inactive postural muscles of the neck and trunk, 
hence, they will undergo a total body extension as a compensatory mechanism 
leading to an atypical movement pattern, that give rise to multisystem 
consequences that reduce their quality of life. The relationship between 
atypical movement patterns, compensatory strategies, and multisystem 
consequences have not yet been explored. In fact, these multisystem consequences 
aggravate their condition and make movement much more atypical, forming a 
vicious cycle. This review aimed to provide a summary and highlight the 
mechanism of atypical movement pattern, multisystem compensations, and 
consequences in spastic quadriplegic CP children. It is true that central 
nervous system (CNS) lesion in CP is non-progressive, however the multisystem 
consequences may impair overall function over time. An understanding of how 
compensatory strategy and multisystem consequences in spastic quadriplegic CP 
offers the opportunity to intervene as early as possible to improve their 
quality of life.

Copyright © 2023 Wahyuni.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2022.1076316
PMCID: PMC9868261
PMID: 36698899

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


758. Front Pharmacol. 2023 Jan 9;13:1106260. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2022.1106260. 
eCollection 2022.

Rhein for treating diabetes mellitus: A pharmacological and mechanistic 
overview.

Deng T(1), Du J(1), Yin Y(1), Cao B(2), Wang Z(1), Zhang Z(3), Yang M(2)(3), Han 
J(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Affiliated Hospital of Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Jinan, China.
(2)NHC Key Laboratory of Biotechnology Drugs (Shandong Academy of Medical 
Sciences), Biomedical Sciences College, Shandong First Medical University, 
Jinan, China.
(3)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Shandong First Medical University, Jinan, China.

With the extension of life expectancy and changes in lifestyle, the prevalence 
of diabetes mellitus is increasing worldwide. Rheum palmatum L. a natural 
botanical medicine, has been used for thousands of years to prevent and treat 
diabetes mellitus in Eastern countries. Rhein, the main active component of 
rhubarb, is a 1, 8-dihydroxy anthraquinone derivative. Previous studies have 
extensively explored the clinical application of rhein. However, a comprehensive 
review of the antidiabetic effects of rhein has not been conducted. This review 
summarizes studies published over the past decade on the antidiabetic effects of 
rhein, covering the biological characteristics of Rheum palmatum L. and the 
pharmacological effects and pharmacokinetic characteristics of rhein. The review 
demonstrates that rhein can prevent and treat diabetes mellitus by ameliorating 
insulin resistance, possess anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative stress 
properties, and protect islet cells, thus providing a theoretical basis for the 
application of rhein as an antidiabetic agent.

Copyright © 2023 Deng, Du, Yin, Cao, Wang, Zhang, Yang and Han.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2022.1106260
PMCID: PMC9868719
PMID: 36699072

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


759. Ecol Evol. 2023 Jan 18;13(1):e9667. doi: 10.1002/ece3.9667. eCollection 2023
 Jan.

Breeding populations of Marbled Godwits and Willets have high annual survival 
and strong site fidelity to managed wetlands.

Sandercock BK(1), Gratto-Trevor CL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Terrestrial Ecology Norwegian Institute for Nature Research 
Trondheim Norway.
(2)Science and Technology Branch Environment and Climate Change Canada Saskatoon 
Saskatchewan Canada.

The Prairie Pothole Region of central Canada supports a diverse community of 
breeding waterbirds, but many species have declining populations and the 
demographic mechanisms driving the declines remain unknown. We conducted a 
7-year field study during 1995-2001 to investigate the demographic performance 
of Marbled Godwits (Limosa fedoa) and Willets (Tringa semipalmata) breeding in 
managed wetlands near Brooks, Alberta. Mark-recapture analyses based on 
Cormack-Jolly-Seber models revealed that the annual rates of apparent survival 
for Marbled Godwits ( ϕ^  = 0.953 ± 0.012SE) and Willets ( ϕ^ 
 = 0.861 ± 0.015SE) are among the highest rates of survivorship reported for any 
breeding or nonbreeding population of large-bodied shorebirds. Our estimates of 
life expectancy for males were comparable to longevity records in godwits 
(17.3 years ±5.8SE vs. 25-29+ years) and willets (7.7 ± 1.5SE vs. 10+ years). 
The two species both showed strong breeding site fidelity but differed in rates 
of mate fidelity. Pairs that reunited and males that switched mates usually 
nested <300 m from their previous nests, whereas females that switched mates 
usually moved longer distances >1.1-1.5 km. Returning pairs usually reunited in 
godwits (85%) but not in willets (28%), possibly because of species differences 
in adult survival or patterns of migration. Baseline estimates of annual 
survival for banded-only birds will be useful for evaluating the potential 
effects of new tracking tags or the environmental changes that have occurred 
during the past 20 years. Conservation strategies for large-bodied shorebirds 
should be focused on reduction of exposure to anthropogenic mortality because 
low rates of natural mortality suggest that losses to collisions at breeding 
sites or harvest at nonbreeding areas are likely to cause additive mortality.

© 2023 The Authors. Ecology and Evolution published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.9667
PMCID: PMC9849706
PMID: 36699575


760. Front Mol Biosci. 2023 Jan 9;9:1108896. doi: 10.3389/fmolb.2022.1108896. 
eCollection 2022.

Hemorheological profiles and chronic inflammation markers in 
transfusion-dependent and non-transfusion- dependent thalassemia.

Caprari P(1), Profumo E(2), Massimi S(1), Buttari B(2), Riganò R(2), Regine 
V(3), Gabbianelli M(2), Rossi S(4), Risoluti R(5), Materazzi S(5), Gullifa G(5), 
Maffei L(6), Sorrentino F(6).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for the Control and Evaluation of Medicines, Istituto 
Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular and Endocrine-Metabolic Diseases and Aging, 
Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Infectious Disease, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, 
Rome, Italy.
(5)Department of Chemistry, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(6)Thalassemia Unit, S. Eugenio Hospital, Rome, Italy.

The rheological properties of blood play an important role in regulating blood 
flow in micro and macro circulation. In thalassemia syndromes red blood cells 
exhibit altered hemodynamic properties that facilitate microcirculatory 
diseases: increased aggregation and reduced deformability, as well as a marked 
increase in adherence to the vascular endothelial cells. A personalized approach 
to treating thalassemia patients (transfusions, iron chelation, and 
splenectomy), has increased patients' life expectancy, however they generally 
present many complications and several studies have demonstrated the presence of 
high incidence of thromboembolic events. In this study the hemorheological 
profiles of thalassemia patients have been characterized to point out new 
indices of vascular impairment in thalassemia. Plasma viscosity, blood 
viscosities at low and high shear rates (η1 and η200, respectively), erythrocyte 
aggregation index (η1/η200), and the erythrocyte viscoelastic profile (elastic 
modulus G', and viscous modulus G") have been studied in transfusion-dependent 
and non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia patients. Moreover, the levels of 
inflammation biomarkers in thalassemia have been evaluated to investigate a 
relationship between the biomarkers, the disease severity and the rheological 
parameters. The biomarkers studied are the main components of the immune and 
endothelial systems or are related to vascular inflammation: cytokines (IL-2, 
IL-6, IL-10, IL-17A, TNF-alpha), chemokines (IL-8, MIP-1alpha), adipocytokines 
(leptin and adiponectin), growth factors (VEGF, angiopoietin-1), adhesion 
molecules (ICAM-1, VCAM-1, E-selectin, L-selectin), and a monocyte/macrophage 
activation marker (CD163). This study shows that transfusion-dependent 
thalassemia patients, both major and intermedia, have blood viscosities 
comparable to those of healthy subjects. Non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia 
intermedia patients show high blood viscosities at low shear rates (η1), 
corresponding to the flow conditions of the microcirculation, an increase in 
erythrocyte aggregation, and high values of the elastic G' and viscous G" 
modules that reflect a reduced erythrocyte deformability and an increase in 
blood viscosity. Levels of cytokines, chemokines and adhesion molecules are 
different in transfusion- and non-transfusion dependent patients and positive 
correlations between η1 or η1/η200 and the cytokines IL-6 and IL-10 have been 
observed. The evaluation of the hemorheological profiles in thalassemia can 
provide new indicators of vascular impairment and disease severity in 
thalassemia in order to prevent the onset of thromboembolic events.

Copyright © 2023 Caprari, Profumo, Massimi, Buttari, Riganò, Regine, 
Gabbianelli, Rossi, Risoluti, Materazzi, Gullifa, Maffei and Sorrentino.

DOI: 10.3389/fmolb.2022.1108896
PMCID: PMC9868635
PMID: 36699704

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


761. Front Public Health. 2023 Jan 9;10:1043184. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.1043184.
 eCollection 2022.

The impact of health resource enhancement and its spatiotemporal relationship 
with population health.

Qiu L(1), Yang L(1)(2), Li H(1), Wang L(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Land Surface Pattern and Simulation, Institute of 
Geographical Sciences and Natural Resources Research, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)College of Resources and Environment, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: This study investigated the impact of health resource enhancement on 
health and spatiotemporal variation characteristics from 2000 to 2010 at the 
county level.
METHODS: Multiscale Geographically Weighted Regression and curve fitting were 
used to explore the characteristics of spatiotemporal impact and divergence 
mechanism of health resource enhancement on population health.
RESULTS: From 2000 to 2010, China's population health continued to rise 
steadily, and health resource allocation improved. Population health 
demonstrated the significant spatial autocorrelation, and its spatial clustering 
patterns were relatively fixed. Health resource allocation was relatively equal. 
Health technicians per 1,000 persons had a significant positive effect on 
population health in 2000 and 2010. Meanwhile, its impact tends to be consistent 
across regions, and the impact scale has been continuously expanding. A 
quantitative relationship exists between population health and health resource 
inputs. When life expectancy ranged from 73.68 to 84.08 years, the death rate 
ranged from 6.27 to 9.00%, and the infant mortality rate ranged from 0.00 to 
6.33%, investments in health resources, especially related to health 
technicians, were beneficial for population health.
CONCLUSIONS: The government should improve the science and rationality of health 
resource planning. Planning meets regional realities by combining the impacts of 
economy and geography. The influence of health resources on population health 
depends on the overall allocation of health technicians. The number of health 
technicians needs to be further increased to improve the health resources' 
effective allocation between regions.

Copyright © 2023 Qiu, Yang, Li and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.1043184
PMCID: PMC9868711
PMID: 36699901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


762. Haematologica. 2023 Jul 1;108(7):1748-1757. doi:
10.3324/haematol.2022.282407.

How we manage cardiovascular disease in patients with hemophilia.

Franchini M(1), Focosi D(2), Mannucci PM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Transfusion Medicine and Hematology, Carlo Poma Hospital, 
Mantova. massimo.franchini@asst-mantova.it.
(2)North-Western Tuscany Blood Bank, Pisa University Hospital.
(3)Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda-Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico and University of 
Milan, Angelo Bianchi Bonomi Hemophilia and Thrombosis Center, Milan.

With the striking advances in hemophilia care that have materialized 
particularly in the last two decades, an increasing number of persons with 
hemophilia (PWH) have achieved a quality of life and life expectancy very close 
to that of unaffected individuals. With aging, a growing number of PWH develop 
age-related co-morbidities, including cancer and cardiovascular disease. The 
latter (particularly coronary artery disease and atrial fibrillation) represent 
a new challenge for the hemophilia treatment centers because their management 
implies a delicate balance between the thrombotic risk and bleeding tendency, 
that is further enhanced by the concomitant use of antithrombotic agents. 
Because evidence from clinical trials is lacking, the management of PWH with 
cardiovascular diseases is mostly based on expert opinions, personal 
experiences, and the adaptation of the evidence stemming from studies on people 
without hemophilia. In this article, we focus on how to manage coronary artery 
disease and atrial fibrillation in patients with hemophilia.

DOI: 10.3324/haematol.2022.282407
PMCID: PMC10316236
PMID: 36700406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Urogynecology (Phila). 2023 Jul 1;29(7):607-616. doi: 
10.1097/SPV.0000000000001327. Epub 2023 Jan 12.

Predictors of Recovery Expectancy in Preparation for Pelvic Reconstructive 
Surgery in Women With Pelvic Organ Prolapse: A Prospective Cohort Study.

Doering A(1), Hale D, Hamner J, Heit M.

Author information:
(1)From the Division of Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery, 
Indiana University, Bloomington, IN.

IMPORTANCE: Recovery expectancy is a modifiable predictor of actual recovery 
after surgery. Identifying predictors of recovery expectancy will allow 
clinicians to preoperatively modify recovery expectancy and optimize actual 
recovery.
OBJECTIVES: The primary objective was to identify patient characteristics that 
predict a patient's recovery expectancy. The secondary objective was to validate 
previous research demonstrating that recovery expectancy predicted actual 
recovery.
STUDY DESIGN: This is a prospective cohort study of women undergoing pelvic 
reconstructive surgery. Patients completed a preoperative survey to collect data 
on potential sociodemographic, clinical, and psychosocial, including investment 
in life roles, predictors of recovery expectancies. Actual recovery was measured 
at postoperative weeks 2 and 6. Predictors of recovery expectancy were 
identified.
RESULTS: Two hundred one women were recruited with 174 included in the final 
analysis. Variables significantly associated with recovery expectancy during 
bivariate analysis ( P < 0.05) were education level, total prior surgical 
procedures, pelvic pain, back pain, bodily pain, sick role investment, optimism, 
satisfaction with participation in social roles, overall social support, job 
satisfaction, and professionalism. Sick role investment was the only independent 
predictor of recovery expectancy (F = 3.46, df = 13, P < 0.001). Greater sick 
role investment was associated with increased probability of prolonged recovery. 
Patients with low recovery expectancies had less actual recovery compared with 
patients with high recovery expectancies ( P = 0.014).
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirmed prior work that recovery expectancy predicts 
actual recovery after reconstructive pelvic surgery and may establish recovery 
expectancy as a mediator between sick role investment and actual postdischarge 
surgical recovery.

Copyright © 2023 American Urogynecologic Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/SPV.0000000000001327
PMID: 36701635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Oper Neurosurg (Hagerstown). 2023 Apr 1;24(4):425-431. doi: 
10.1227/ons.0000000000000535. Epub 2022 Dec 12.

Extracranial Jugular Foramen Schwannomas Treated with the Extreme Lateral 
Juxtacondylar Approach: Surgical Technique and Our Experience.

Di Vitantonio H(1), Tozzi A(2), De Paulis D(3), Millimaggi DF(1), Di Cola F(1), 
Raysi Dehcordi S(2), Galzio RJ(4), Ricci A(1).

Author information:
(1)Operative Unit of Neurosurgery, San Salvatore City Hospital L'Aquila, Italy.
(2)Department of Life, Health and Environmental Sciences (MESVA), University of 
L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Hospital of the Sea, Naples, Italy.
(4)Operative Unit of Neurosurgery Neurosurgery Unit, Maria Cecilia Hospital, 
Cotignola, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Schwannoma that arises in the jugular foramen (JF) represents an 
important challenge for neurosurgeons for its precise location, extension, and 
neurovascular relationship. Nowadays, different managements are proposed. In 
this study, we present our experience in the treatment of extracranial JF 
schwannomas (JFss) with the extreme lateral juxtacondylar approach (ELJA).
OBJECTIVE: To present our experience in the treatment of extracranial JF 
schwannomas (JFss) with the ELJA.
METHODS: Between January 2013 and January 2017, 12 patients with extracranial 
JFs underwent surgery by ELJA. All lesions were type C of the Samii 
classification. Indocyanine green videoangiography was used to evaluate the 
relationship between the internal jugular vein and the tumor and to control the 
presence of spasm in the vertebral artery.
RESULTS: A complete exeresis was achieved in 9 patients while in 3 patients, it 
was subtotal. The complete regression of symptoms was obtained in 7 patients 
with a total resection. The remaining cases experienced a persistence of 
symptoms.
CONCLUSION: The success of this surgery is achieved through a management that 
starts from the patient's position. We promote an accurate evaluation of JFs 
through the Samii classification: Type C tumors allow the use of ELJA that 
reduces surgical complications. Furthermore, we recommend the use of indocyanine 
green videoangiography to preserve the vessels and prevent vasospasm.

Copyright © Congress of Neurological Surgeons 2022. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1227/ons.0000000000000535
PMCID: PMC10158918
PMID: 36701746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Sleep Med. 2023 Feb;102:180-185. doi: 10.1016/j.sleep.2023.01.006. Epub 2023
Jan  15.

Sex transition from female to male as a risk factor for sleep-disordered 
breathing.

Genzor S(1), Prasko J(2), Mizera J(3), Kufa J(3), Zurkova M(3), Jakubec P(3), 
Vykopal M(3), Vanek J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Diseases and Tuberculosis, Faculty of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Palacky University Olomouc and University Hospital Olomouc, Czech 
Republic; Center for Digital Health, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, Palacky 
University Olomouc and University Hospital Olomouc, Czech republic.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University Hospital Olomouc and Faculty of Medicine 
and Dentistry, Palacky University Olomouc, Czech Republic; Institute for 
Postgraduate Education in Health Care, Prague, Czech Republic; Department of 
Psychology Sciences, Faculty of Social Science and Health Care, Constantine the 
Philosopher University in Nitra, Slovak Republic. Electronic address: 
praskojan@seznam.cz.
(3)Department of Respiratory Diseases and Tuberculosis, Faculty of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Palacky University Olomouc and University Hospital Olomouc, Czech 
Republic.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University Hospital Olomouc and Faculty of Medicine 
and Dentistry, Palacky University Olomouc, Czech Republic.

AIM: The female-to-male (FtM) sex transition requires lifelong supplementation 
with male sex hormones, resulting in high prevalence of weight gain, fat 
redistribution and other metabolic changes. Although sleep-disordered breathing 
(SDB) data for this group of patients are very limited, increased prevalence is 
expected. We report a mini-series of six case reports of FtM transsexuals 
treated in our centre.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All reported cases are consecutive patients referred to a 
department of respiratory diseases and tuberculosis of a university hospital 
from 2017 to 2022. The standard pulmonary examination was performed, followed by 
limited polysomnography.
RESULTS: In all FtM subjects, SDB was present and continuous positive airway 
pressure (CPAP) therapy was indicated. The sex transition process was completed 
in three individuals while the other three only took testosterone 
supplementation at the assessment time. The subjects' age ranged from 21 to 38 
years, the apnoea-hypopnea index ranged from 17.3 to 104.1, and the BMI was 
33.48-43.41. The CPAP therapy was effective in five patients, with one requiring 
bi-level positive airway pressure therapy. One subject committed suicide before 
the first check-up, four patients had a good level of compliance at one-year 
follow-up, and one had insufficient CPAP adherence.
CONCLUSION: SDB decreases the quality of life and life expectancy of FtM 
individuals. Their prognosis is undoubtedly better with effective treatment. 
Hence, obese FtM subjects should be considered at risk and screened for SDB.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sleep.2023.01.006
PMID: 36701832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


766. J Infect Public Health. 2023 Mar;16(3):368-375. doi:
10.1016/j.jiph.2023.01.014.  Epub 2023 Jan 20.

The global, regional, and national burden of tuberculosis in 204 countries and 
territories, 1990-2019.

Zhang T(1), Zhang J(1), Wei L(1), Liang H(1), Zhang J(1), Shi D(2), Wang Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, The Seventh Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Shenzhen 518107, China.
(2)Department of Thoracic Surgery, The Seventh Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Shenzhen 518107, China. Electronic address: 
shidlei@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Thoracic Surgery, The Seventh Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Shenzhen 518107, China. Electronic address: 
wangzhj55@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Tuberculosis (TB) is the leading cause of death from a single 
infectious disease and ranks 13th among the leading causes of death worldwide. 
In this study, we aimed to report the burden of TB in 204 countries and 
territories from 1990 to 2019 by sex, age, and socio-demographic index (SDI).
METHODS: Annual death number, age-standardized mortality rates (ASMR), and 
age-standardized disability-adjusted life year (DALY) rates (ASDR) with a 95% 
uncertainty interval (UI) of TB were derived from the global burden of disease 
(GBD) 2019 for the time period between 1990 and 2019. The association between 
the burden of TB and SDI was also investigated.
RESULTS: The total death number related to TB decreased by 33.6%, from 1777.5 in 
1990-1179.8 in 2019, per 1000 individuals. The global ASMR and ASDR for TB were 
14.64 (13.39-16.03) and 590.42 (536.85-646.42), which were 63.5% and 62.8% lower 
than in 1990, respectively. South Asia, Eastern Sub-Saharan Africa, Southeast 
Asia, and Western Sub-Saharan Africa had the largest number of TB deaths in 
2019. Central Sub-Saharan Africa was the region with the highest ASMR and ASDR 
in 2019. India had the highest number of TB deaths, and the Central African 
Republic and Switzerland had the highest and lowest ASMR per 100,000 
individuals, respectively. The number of deaths and DALYs were higher in males 
than in females and the ASDR significantly increased from the 10-14-year-old age 
group to the 80-84-year-old age group in both sexes. Most cases of TB were 
caused by drug-susceptible TB. A negative association between the regional SDI 
and the ASDR of TB was found.
CONCLUSIONS: From 1990-2019, TB death number, ASMR, and ASDR decreased. It is 
important to note that, despite the decreasing burden of TB, it remains a major 
public health problem, especially in low SDI countries. It is necessary to 
design and implement suitable strategies to address the current situation.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jiph.2023.01.014
PMID: 36702011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interests The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


767. Knee. 2023 Mar;41:150-160. doi: 10.1016/j.knee.2022.12.006. Epub 2023 Jan
24.

The flexion-extension gap is predictive of patient-reported outcome measures 
after cruciate-retaining total knee arthroplasty.

Okayoshi T(1), Okamoto Y(2), Wakama H(1), Otsuki S(1), Neo M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Osaka Medical and Pharmaceutical 
University, 2-7 Daigaku-machi, Takatsuki 569-8686, Japan.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Osaka Medical and Pharmaceutical 
University, 2-7 Daigaku-machi, Takatsuki 569-8686, Japan. Electronic address: 
yoshinori.okamoto@ompu.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: We aimed to evaluate the association between the flexion-extension 
gap difference and patient-reported outcome measures after total knee 
arthroplasty (TKA).
METHODS: This was a retrospective case-control study of 60 cruciate-retaining 
single-radius TKAs. Soft tissue balancing was measured using an offset seesaw 
tensioner and centre-type digital knee balancer under joint distraction forces 
of 20-50 lbf and 1.5 times body mass index (1.5 BMI). At the last follow up of 
2.0-6.5 (mean, 4.5) years postoperatively, patients were asked if they perceived 
their knee joint as 'natural' (26 knees) or 'artificial' (34 knees). Age, sex, 
and the flexion-extension gap were compared between the two groups. A receiver 
operating characteristic curve was used to determine cut-off values of variables 
predictive of a natural joint perception.
RESULTS: Natural joint perception was associated with a greater 
flexion-extension gap difference under a distraction force of 1.5 BMI 
(P = 0.016), higher knee function (Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score 
for Joint Replacement, P = 0.019), and quality of life (EuroQol 5-Dimension, 
P = 0.029). A gap difference of 0.95 mm under 1.5 BMI distraction predicted a 
natural joint perception post-TKA (sensitivity, 97.1%; specificity, 88.5%). 
Using a gap threshold of 1.0 mm under a 1.5 BMI distraction force yielded 
significant between-group differences in postoperative flexion (P = 0.040), 
satisfaction (P = 0.043), knee joint function (P < 0.001), quality of life 
(P = 0.032), and posterior femoral condylar offset (P = 0.037) CONCLUSION: A 
flexion-extension gap difference ≥1.0 mm under a distraction force of 1.5 BMI 
predicted superior outcomes, including patient satisfaction, after 
cruciate-retaining TKA. It was suggested that posterior femoral condylar offset 
could influence this finding.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.knee.2022.12.006
PMID: 36702049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


768. Lancet Glob Health. 2023 Mar;11(3):e456-e465. doi: 
10.1016/S2214-109X(22)00554-X. Epub 2023 Jan 23.

Economic evaluation of combined population-based screening for multiple 
blindness-causing eye diseases in China: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Liu H(1), Li R(2), Zhang Y(2), Zhang K(2), Yusufu M(3), Liu Y(2), Mou D(2), Chen 
X(2), Tian J(2), Li H(4), Fan S(5), Tang J(6), Wang N(7).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Institute of Ophthalmology, Beijing Tongren Eye Center, Beijing 
Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China; School of Medical 
Technology, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, China; National Institutes 
of Health Data Science at Peking University, Beijing, China. Electronic address: 
hanruo.liu@hotmail.co.uk.
(2)Beijing Institute of Ophthalmology, Beijing Tongren Eye Center, Beijing 
Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(3)Centre for Eye Research Australia, Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital, 
Department of Surgery (Ophthalmology), The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
VIC, Australia.
(4)School of Medical Technology, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, 
China.
(5)Handan City Eye Hospital, Handan, China.
(6)School of Agricultural Economics and Rural Development, Renmin University of 
China, Beijing, China. Electronic address: j.tang@ruc.edu.cn.
(7)Beijing Institute of Ophthalmology, Beijing Tongren Eye Center, Beijing 
Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China; School of Medical 
Technology, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, China; National Institutes 
of Health Data Science at Peking University, Beijing, China. Electronic address: 
wningli@vip.163.com.

Comment in
    Lancet Glob Health. 2023 Mar;11(3):e318-e320.

BACKGROUND: More than 90% of vision impairment is avoidable. However, in China, 
a routine screening programme is currently unavailable in primary health care. 
With the dearth of economic evidence on screening programmes for multiple 
blindness-causing eye diseases, delivery options, and screening frequencies, we 
aimed to evaluate the costs and benefits of a population-based screening 
programme for multiple eye diseases in China.
METHODS: We developed a decision-analytic Markov model for a cohort of 
individuals aged 50 years and older with a total of 30 1-year cycles. We 
calculated the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of screening programmes for 
multiple major blindness-causing eye diseases in China, including age-related 
macular degeneration, glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, cataracts, and 
pathological myopia, from a societal perspective (including direct and indirect 
costs). We analysed rural and urban settings separately by different screening 
delivery options (non-telemedicine [ie, face-to-face] screening, artificial 
intelligence [AI] telemedicine screening, and non-AI telemedicine screening) and 
frequencies. We calculated incremental cost-utility ratios (ICURs) using 
quality-adjusted life-years and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) in 
terms of the cost per blindness year avoided. One-way deterministic and 
simulated probabilistic sensitivity analyses were used to assess the robustness 
of the main outcomes.
FINDINGS: Compared with no screening, non-telemedicine combined screening of 
multiple eye diseases satisfied the criterion for a highly cost-effective health 
intervention, with an ICUR of US$2494 (95% CI 1130 to 2716) and an ICER of 
$12 487 (8773 to 18 791) in rural settings. In urban areas, the ICUR was $624 
(395 to 907), and the ICER was $7251 (4238 to 13 501). Non-AI telemedicine 
screening could result in fewer costs and greater gains in health benefits (ICUR 
$2326 [1064 to 2538] and ICER $11 766 [8200 to 18 000] in rural settings; ICUR 
$581 [368 to 864] and ICER $6920 [3926 to 13 231] in urban settings). AI 
telemedicine screening dominated no screening in rural settings, and in urban 
settings the ICUR was $244 (-315 to 1073) and the ICER was $2567 (-4111 to 
15 389). Sensitivity analyses showed all results to be robust. By further 
comparison, annual AI telemedicine screening was the most cost-effective 
strategy in both rural and urban areas.
INTERPRETATION: Combined screening of multiple eye diseases is cost-effective in 
both rural and urban China. AI coupled with teleophthalmology presents an 
opportunity to promote equity in eye health.
FUNDING: National Natural Science Foundation of China.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
