with hand-assisted laparoscopic mobilization of the liver, subsequent 
explantation of the diseased liver, and implantation of the graft under direct 
vision.
METHODS: A 12-year-old girl with citrin deficiency was scheduled for LDLT with a 
left lobe graft. After making an 8-cm upper midline incision, a 5-mm trocar was 
placed at the umbilicus and the right upper abdomen. Mobilization of the right 
liver lobe was performed using a hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery (HALS) 
procedure. After the extension of the midline incision, short hepatic vein 
dissection, encircling the right hepatic vein and hepatic hilum dissection was 
performed. Explantation of the liver and subsequent implantation of the liver 
graft were conducted under direct vision.
RESULTS: Since the operation, her normal activities of daily life have been 
maintained with a normal liver function. Subsequently, her secondary sexual 
characteristics have recovered without any wound-related complications.
CONCLUSIONS: A hybrid LDLT procedure was feasible for a pediatric patient. This 
procedure's benefits are considered meaningful for pediatric patients as it does 
not disrupt the rectus muscles or nerves and achieves cosmesis.

© 2023 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/petr.14485
PMID: 36751005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Cureus. 2023 Jan 5;15(1):e33432. doi: 10.7759/cureus.33432. eCollection 2023
 Jan.

Patients' Opinions Toward Healthcare Quality and Improvement in Aseer Health: A 
Cross-Sectional Study.

Saeed A(1), AlShafea A(2), A F(3), AlQadi T(4), Bin Saeed A(5).

Author information:
(1)Action Research, Ministry of Health, Abha, SAU.
(2)Research Unit, Ministry of Health, Abha, SAU.
(3)Public Health, King Khalid University, Khamis Mushait, SAU.
(4)Risk, Ministry of Health Holdings, Abha, SAU.
(5)Public Health, King Abdelaziz University, Khamis Mushait, SAU.

Introduction Population health is crucial to government planning. The 2030 
national vision is transforming all Saudi sectors. The health sector revolution 
intends to boost life expectancy by reducing mortality due to road traffic 
accidents and morbidity due to chronic illness. Health services will change from 
treatment-based to person-centered and preventive care, empower the population, 
increase access to healthcare and improve service quality by offering high 
customer satisfaction. This study establishes a baseline assessment for public 
awareness, behavior, healthcare access, and quality. Method A cross-sectional 
study was conducted in the Aseer region in southwestern Saudi Arabia in 2022, 
September and October. Using the Aseer region's 2.1 million people to calculate 
the sample needed, the minimal sample size was 664. The study used cluster 
random sampling and a structured self-administered questionnaire to meet health 
transformation strategy requirements. All study variables underwent descriptive 
and bivariate analysis. Result The survey received 1,381 responses, with 97.2% 
of participants being Saudi and 84.4% being male. 312 (22.6%) of participants 
self-reported their health status as weak; 615 (44.5%) self-reported as having a 
good health status; and 667 (48.3%) reported having high knowledge. 740 people 
(53.6%) said that health was very important in their daily lives. The evaluation 
rate for Ministry of Health services in primary healthcare centers was 585 
(42.4%) medium and 398 (28.8%) media for inpatient services. Evaluation for 
surgical procedure availability was 388 (28.1%) media. The results showed there 
is a statistically significant relationship (p-value < 0.05) between health 
status and age, gender, knowledge, and the importance of a healthy lifestyle. 
And there is a statistically significant relationship between the availability 
and quality of the health service profile, including inpatient, outpatient, and 
virtual care. Nationality appears to be statistically insignificant. Conclusion 
Health promotion is effective because people are health conscious. The 
importance of health and lifestyle presents a tremendous opportunity to 
incorporate health into all policies and improve the availability of healthy 
lifestyle options and surroundings to support healthy behaviors that will reduce 
preventable disease and risk mortality and morbidity. Health status was also 
linked to healthcare availability and quality.

Copyright © 2023, Saeed et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.33432
PMCID: PMC9899334
PMID: 36751190

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


897. Neural Regen Res. 2023 Aug;18(8):1691-1696. doi: 10.4103/1673-5374.363194.

Role of vascular endothelial growth factor as a critical neurotrophic factor for 
the survival and physiology of motoneurons.

Calvo PM(1), Hernández RG(1), de la Cruz RR(1), Pastor AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Fisiología, Facultad de Biología, Universidad de Sevilla, 
Sevilla, Spain.

Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was discovered by its angiogenic 
activity. However, during evolution, it appeared earlier as a neurotrophic 
factor required for the development of the nervous system in invertebrates 
lacking a circulatory system. We aimed at reviewing recent evidence indicating 
that VEGF has neuroprotective effects in neurons exposed to a variety of 
insults. Of particular interest is the link established between VEGF and 
motoneurons, especially after the design of the VEGFδ/δ mutant mice. These mice 
are characterized by low levels of VEGF and develop muscle weakness and 
motoneuron degeneration resembling amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The 
administration of VEGF through several routes to animal models of amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis delays motor impairment and motoneuron degeneration and 
increases life expectancy. There are new recent advances in the role of VEGF in 
the physiology of motoneurons. Our experimental aims use the extraocular 
(abducens) motoneurons lesioned by axotomy as a model for studying VEGF actions. 
Axotomized abducens motoneurons exhibit severe alterations in their discharge 
activity and a loss of synaptic boutons. The exogenous administration of VEGF to 
axotomized abducens motoneurons, either from the transected nerve or 
intraventricularly, fully restores the synaptic and discharge properties of 
abducens motoneurons, despite being axotomized. In addition, when an anti-VEGF 
neutralizing antibody is delivered from the muscle to intact, uninjured abducens 
motoneurons, these cells display alterations in their discharge pattern and a 
loss of synaptic boutons that resemble the state of axotomy. All these data 
indicate that VEGF is an essential neurotrophic factor for motoneurons.

DOI: 10.4103/1673-5374.363194
PMCID: PMC10154470
PMID: 36751781

Conflict of interest statement: None


898. Sr Care Pharm. 2023 Feb 1;38(2):47-49. doi: 10.4140/TCP.n.2023.47.

The Critical Role of Pharmacists in Treating Older People in the Opioid Crisis.

Watanabe JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Professor of Clinical Pharmacy Associate Dean of Pharmacy Assessment and 
Quality Member Forum on Drug Discovery, Development, and Translation of the 
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine University of 
California, Irvine School of Pharmacy & Pharmaceutical Sciences.

Pharmacy-based Opioid Use Disorder (OUD) treatment has been identified as a 
central pillar in curbing the spiraling opioid epidemic that claimed more than 
100,000 lives in the United States in a one year period for the first time. This 
epidemic is also partially responsible for the plummeting US life expectancy 
that began prior to the COVID-19 pandemic and has now claimed more than 500,000 
lives since 1999 with more than 70% of the 70,630 overdose deaths in 2019 
involved with an opioid. Older people are at increased risk of both OUD and 
OUD-related complications. Recent studies have demonstrated that people older 
than 65 years of age were more likely to die of OUD-related complications, and - 
because of an increased likelihood of polypharmacy - are more likely to 
experience a drug interaction that magnifies the risk of an opioid-related 
misadventure.

DOI: 10.4140/TCP.n.2023.47
PMID: 36751937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Br J Dermatol. 2023 Feb 22;188(3):330-340. doi: 10.1093/bjd/ljac089.

Bimekizumab efficacy and safety in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque 
psoriasis who switched from adalimumab, ustekinumab or secukinumab: results from 
phase III/IIIb trials.

Kokolakis G(1)(2)(3), Warren RB(4), Strober B(5)(6), Blauvelt A(7), Puig L(8), 
Morita A(9), Gooderham M(10)(11), Körber A(12), Vanvoorden V(13), Wang M(14), de 
Cuyper D(13), Madden C(14), Nunez Gomez N(15), Lebwohl M(16).

Author information:
(1)Psoriasis Research and Treatment Center, Department of Dermatology, 
Venereology and Allergology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, 
Germany.
(2)Freie Universität Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(3)Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(4)Dermatology Centre, Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester NIHR 
Biomedical Research Centre, The University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(5)Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA.
(6)Central Connecticut Dermatology Research, Cromwell, CT, USA.
(7)Oregon Medical Research Center, Portland, OR, USA.
(8)Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Nagoya, Japan.
(10)SKiN Centre for Dermatology, Probity Medical Research, Peterborough, ON, 
Canada.
(11)Queen's University, Kingston, ON, Canada.
(12)Hautaerzte Rue143, Essen, Germany.
(13)UCB Pharma, Brussels, Belgium.
(14)UCB Pharma, Morrisville, NC, USA.
(15)UCB Pharma, Monheim, Germany.
(16)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.

Comment in
    Br J Dermatol. 2023 Feb 22;188(3):316-317.

BACKGROUND: Discontinuation of biologics is common among patients with psoriasis 
due to treatment failure or adverse events. To achieve improvements in disease 
management, patients and clinicians may choose to switch biologics.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of switching to bimekizumab from 
adalimumab, ustekinumab and secukinumab.
METHODS: Data are reported for up to 80 weeks after patients switched to 
bimekizumab from adalimumab at week 24 in BE SURE, ustekinumab at week 52 in BE 
VIVID [upon entry into the BE BRIGHT open-label extension (OLE)] and secukinumab 
at week 48 in BE RADIANT (upon entry into the BE RADIANT OLE). Efficacy outcomes 
are reported by number of weeks after switching to bimekizumab and were split 
based on whether patients had achieved a ≥ 90% improvement from baseline in 
Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI 90) at the time of switch. 
Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) are reported using exposure-adjusted 
incidence rates (EAIRs) per 100 patient-years. Trial registration: BE SURE 
(NCT03412747), BE VIVID (NCT03370133), BE BRIGHT (NCT03598790), BE RADIANT 
(NCT03536884).
RESULTS: Rapid and durable improvements in clinical responses and benefits in 
health-related quality of life were observed among PASI 90 nonresponders who 
switched to bimekizumab. Most PASI 90 nonresponders achieved PASI 90 4 weeks 
after switching to bimekizumab from adalimumab (67%), ustekinumab (79%) and 
secukinumab (53%). After 48 weeks of bimekizumab, 91%, 90% and 79% of PASI 90 
nonresponders had achieved PASI 90 after switching from adalimumab, ustekinumab 
or secukinumab, respectively. Durable improvements were also observed for PASI 
100, Investigator's Global Assessment score 0/1, body surface area affected by 
psoriasis ≤ 1%, absolute PASI ≤ 2, and Dermatology Life Quality Index 0/1. Among 
PASI 90 responders, existing treatment responses were maintained or improved 
after switching to bimekizumab. The majority of TEAEs were mild or moderate. 
EAIRs were generally similar between active-comparator treatment periods and 
after switching to bimekizumab. EAIRs typically decreased with a longer duration 
of bimekizumab exposure.
CONCLUSIONS: High proportions of patients who did not adequately respond to 
adalimumab, ustekinumab or secukinumab achieved high levels of skin clearance 
after switching to bimekizumab. Bimekizumab was well tolerated and there were no 
new safety findings.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British 
Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1093/bjd/ljac089
PMID: 36751950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest G.K.: received travel 
grants or honoraria, or has been a consultant member of advisory boards and 
speaker bureaus or has served as investigator for AbbVie, Actelion, Almirall, 
Amgen, Basilea, Biogen, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Celgene, 
Hexal-Sandoz, Janssen-Cilag, LEO Pharma, Eli Lilly, MSD, Novartis, Pfizer, 
Sanofi and UCB Pharma. R.B.W.: consulting fees from AbbVie, Almirall, Amgen, 
Arena, Astellas, Avillion, Biogen, Bristol Myers Squibb, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Celgene, Eli Lilly, GSK, Janssen, LEO Pharma, Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi and UCB 
Pharma; research grants to his institution from AbbVie, Almirall, Janssen, LEO 
Pharma, Novartis and UCB Pharma; honoraria from Astellas, DiCE, GSK and 
Union. B.S.: ­consultant (honoraria) for AbbVie, Almirall, Amgen, Arcutis, 
Arena, Aristea, Asana, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Connect 
Biopharma, Dermavant, Eli Lilly, EPI Health, Evelo Biosciences, Immunic 
Therapeutics Janssen, LEO Pharma, Maruho, Meiji Seika Pharma, Mindera Health, 
Novartis, Ono, Pfizer, Regeneron, Sanofi Genzyme, Sun Pharma, UCB Pharma, Union 
Therapeutics, Ventyxbio and vTv Therapeutics; stock options for Connect 
Biopharma and Minder Health; speaker for AbbVie, Eli Lilly, Incyte, Janssen, 
Regeneron and Sanofi Genzyme; scientific co-director (consulting fee) for 
CorEvitas (formerly Corrona) Psoriasis Registry; investigator for AbbVie, Cara, 
CorEvitas Psoriasis Registry, Dermavant, Dermira and Novartis; Editor-in-Chief 
(honoraria) for the Journal of Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis. A.B.: has 
served as a speaker/received honoraria from AbbVie, Eli Lilly and Company and 
UCB; served as a scientific adviser/received honoraria from AbbVie, Abcentra, 
Affibody, Aligos, Almirall, Alumis, Amgen, Anaptysbio, Arcutis, Arena, Aslan, 
Athenex, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Cara Therapeutics, 
Dermavant, EcoR1, Eli Lilly and Company, Escient, Evelo, Evommune, Forte, 
Galderma, HighlightII Pharma, Incyte, Janssen, Landos, LEO Pharma, Merck, 
Novartis, Pfizer, Rapt, Regeneron, Sanofi Genzyme, Spherix Global Insights, Sun 
Pharma, TLL Pharmaceutical, TrialSpark, UCB Pharma, Vibliome and Xencor; acted 
as a clinical study investigator/institution has received clinical study funds 
from AbbVie, Acelyrin, Amgen, Arcutis, Athenex, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol 
Myers Squibb, Dermavant, Eli Lilly and Company, Evelo, Galderma, Incyte, 
Janssen, LEO Pharma, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Regeneron, Sun Pharma and UCB 
Pharma. L.P.: received consultancy/speaker’s honoraria from and/or participated 
in trials sponsored by AbbVie, Almirall, Amgen, Baxalta, Biogen, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Celgene, Eli Lilly, Gebro, Janssen, JS BIOCAD, LEO Pharma, 
Merck-Serono, MSD, Mylan, Novartis, Pfizer, Regeneron, Roche, Samsung-Bioepis, 
Sandoz, Sanofi Genzyme and UCB Pharma. A.M.: received research grants, 
consulting fees and/or speaker’s fees from AbbVie, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol 
Myers Squibb, Celgene, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Janssen, Kyowa Hakko Kirin, LEO Pharma, 
Maruho, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, Nichi-Iko, Nippon Kayaku, Novartis, Pfizer, 
Sun Pharma, Taiho Pharma, Torii Pharma, Ushio and UCB Pharma. M.G.: 
investigator, speaker, consultant or advisory board member for AbbVie, Akros, 
Amgen, AnaptysBio, Arcutis, Aslan, Bausch Health, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Celgene, Dermavant, Dermira, Eli Lilly, Galderma, GSK, 
Incyte, Janssen, Kyowa Kirin, MedImmune, Meiji, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, 
Regeneron, Sanofi Genzyme, Sun Pharma and UCB Pharma. A.K.: speaker (honoraria) 
or consulting fees from: AbbVie, Almirall, Beiersdorf, Biogen-Idec, Bristol 
Myers Squibb, Boehringer Ingelheim, Celgene, Hexal, Janssen-Cilag, LEO Pharma, 
Eli Lilly, MSD, Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi and UCB Pharma. V.V., C.M., D.dC., 
M.W.: employees and shareholders of UCB Pharma. N.N.G.: former employee of UCB 
Pharma. M.L.: employee of Mount Sinai and receives research funds from AbbVie, 
Amgen, Arcutis, Avotres Therapeutics, Boehringer Ingelheim, Dermavant, Eli 
Lilly, Incyte, Janssen, LLC, Ortho Dermatologics, Regeneron and UCB Pharma; 
consultant for Aditum Bio, Almirall, AltruBio, AnaptysBio, Arcutis, Aristea 
Therapeutics, Arrive Technologies, Avotres Therapeutics, BiomX, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Cara Therapeutics, Castle Biosciences, Corrona, 
Dermavant Sciences, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Evelo Biosciences, Evommune, 
Facilitation of International Dermatology Education, Forte Biosciences, 
Foundation for Research and Education in Dermatology, Helsinn Therapeutics, 
Hexima, LEO Pharma, Meiji Seika Pharma, Mindera, Pfizer, Seanergy and Verrica.


900. Aust N Z J Psychiatry. 2023 May;57(5):629-635. doi:
10.1177/00048674231154200.  Epub 2023 Feb 8.

Implications of psychiatric diagnosis for Voluntary Assisted Dying in Victoria.

Peereboom J(1).

Author information:
(1)The Centre of Health Equity, School of Population and Global Health, The 
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

Voluntary Assisted Dying is a process whereby terminally ill patients are 
provided a lethal dose of medication for them to voluntarily ingest to end their 
life. Victoria, Australia, implemented legislation permitting Voluntary Assisted 
Dying for terminally ill adult patients with a life expectancy less than 
6 months. Ethical dilemmas arise when terminally ill patients with a comorbid 
mental illness attempt to access Voluntary Assisted Dying because of the complex 
relationship between psychiatric conditions and suicidal ideation. This paper 
seeks to investigate the most ethical approach for doctors to respond to such a 
request by discussing objections raised in other literature to patients with a 
comorbid psychiatric illness aiming to access Voluntary Assisted Dying in 
Victoria. To answer this question, objections to terminally ill patients with a 
comorbid psychiatric illness accessing Voluntary Assisted Dying were found 
through review of literature. Discussion of these objections centred around 
unpacking the two historical ethical justifications for Voluntary Assisted 
Dying: respect for autonomy and relief of suffering. Regarding autonomy, 
contention focused on competency to make autonomous decisions. Not all 
psychiatric patients lack competency to decide about Voluntary Assisted Dying, 
and there are comparable competency assessments used in psychiatry today. 
Considering suffering, objections related to the authenticity of the intolerable 
nature of a patient's suffering out of concerns that it has been influenced by 
their condition, and that the psychiatric illness may still be treatable. 
However, given suffering is subjective, its perception is not lessened if the 
source is psychological in nature. Furthermore, it is challenging to justify a 
position where a patient is forced to spend the last months of their life 
enduring suffering that has been historically refractory to multiple, genuine 
treatment efforts. Not all terminally ill patients with a comorbid psychiatric 
disorder will lack competency to choose Voluntary Assisted Dying, and many will 
have genuine suffering for which they are requesting Voluntary Assisted Dying. 
Multidisciplinary, holistic assessments for these patients are not mandated, but 
would be useful to address the issues, overcome barriers to access and determine 
that applicants are making an authentic request.

DOI: 10.1177/00048674231154200
PMID: 36752078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. J Fish Biol. 2023 Apr;102(4):952-961. doi: 10.1111/jfb.15341. Epub 2023 Feb
22.

Multiple-brooding rockfishes (Sebastes spp.) can utilize stored sperm from 
individual sires to fertilize consecutive broods.

Kashef NS(1)(2), Stafford DM(1)(2), Sogard SM(2), Garza JC(2)(3), Field 
JC(1)(2), Gilbert-Horvath EA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Fisheries Collaborative Program, Institute of Marine Sciences, University of 
California, Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California, USA.
(2)Fisheries Ecology Division, Southwest Fisheries Science Center, National 
Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Santa 
Cruz, California, USA.
(3)Department of Ocean Sciences, University of California, Santa Cruz, Santa 
Cruz, California, USA.

Viviparous rockfishes (Sebastes spp., family Scorpaenidae) mate and store sperm 
in the ovaries for several months prior to fertilization, as oocytes develop for 
the parturition season. Although multiple paternity has been documented in 
single-brooding rockfishes, paternity in consecutive broods of multiple-brooding 
species has not been studied. Analyses of multilocus microsatellite genotypes in 
both residual larvae left in the ovary from a previous parturition and upcoming 
fertilized broods in the same ovary demonstrated evidence of the same sires in 
consecutive broods in chilipepper (Sebastes goodei) and speckled (Sebastes 
ovalis) rockfishes. One S. goodei mother showed evidence of multiple paternity 
from the same two sires in both consecutive broods. The ability to retain sperm, 
even after a parturition event, for use in subsequent broods, confers an 
advantage to ensure fertilization and allows for extension of the parturition 
season. This life-history strategy provides a bet-hedging advantage in the 
California Current system, an environmentally dynamic ecosystem where larval 
survivorship and subsequent recruitment to adult populations can vary temporally 
by orders of magnitude.

© 2023 The Authors. Journal of Fish Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd 
on behalf of Fisheries Society of the British Isles.

DOI: 10.1111/jfb.15341
PMID: 36752196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. JAAPA. 2023 Mar 1;36(3):20-23. doi: 10.1097/01.JAA.0000920956.33631.26.

An outpatient pain plan and ED pain pathway for adults with sickle cell disease.

Mercado SH(1).

Author information:
(1)Stephanie Harris Mercado practices in the University of California San 
Francisco's Community Cancer Institute, Sickle Cell Disease clinic in Fresno, 
Calif. The author has disclosed no potential conflicts of interest, financial or 
otherwise.

Sickle cell disease (SCD), one of the most common inherited diseases, is 
associated with lifetime morbidity and reduced life expectancy. In the United 
States, SCD primarily affects Black patients and, to a lesser degree, those of 
Hispanic descent. These populations are known to have healthcare disparities 
related to lower socioeconomic status, limited access to healthcare, and racial 
bias. The quality-adjusted life expectancy of patients with SCD is less than 35 
years, because of progressive complications of the disease. The most common 
complication is severe episodic pain related to vaso-occlusive ischemic events. 
Despite guidelines, pain management often is delayed as patients struggle with 
resistance from clinicians based on concerns over opioid use or abuse, overdose, 
or drug-seeking behavior. Effective pain management can be accomplished with 
collaboration between clinicians and patients, a documented outpatient pain 
management plan, and when necessary, an ED clinical pain pathway for acute SCD 
pain management.

Copyright © 2023 American Academy of Physician Associates.

DOI: 10.1097/01.JAA.0000920956.33631.26
PMID: 36752670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Chin Med J (Engl). 2023 Feb 5;136(3):305-312. doi:
10.1097/CM9.0000000000002526.

Burden of epilepsy in China and its provinces, 1990 to 2019: findings from the 
Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

Liu W(1), Xu Y(1), Lin Y(2), Wang L(1), Zhou M(1), Yin P(1), Zhao G(3).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Non-Communicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
National Center for Neurological Disorders, Beijing 100053, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
National Center for Neurological Disorders, Beijing 100053, China.

BACKGROUND: Epilepsy accounts for a significant portion of the global disease 
burden. However, little is known about the disease burden of epilepsy in China 
and its provinces.
METHODS: We assessed the burden of epilepsy in China and its provinces, 
municipalities, and autonomous regions from 1990 to 2019. Burden was measured as 
incidence, prevalence, deaths, years lived with disability, years of life lost, 
and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), by age, sex, year, and province. We 
used the Socio-Demographic Index (SDI) to determine the association between the 
provincial development level and age-standardized DALY rates of epilepsy from 
1990 to 2019.
RESULTS: In 2019, epilepsy caused 1367.51 thousand (95% uncertainty interval 
[UI]: 979.92-1837.61 thousand) DALYs, and the age-standardized DALY rate was 
99.77 (95% UI: 71.33-133.52)/100,000. The age-standardized incidence and 
prevalence rates for epilepsy in China were 24.65/100,000 and 219.69/100,000, 
increased by 45.00% (95% UI: 8.03-98.74%) and 35.72% (95% UI: 0.47-86.19%) 
compared with that in 1990, respectively. From 1990 to 2019, the proportion of 
DALY caused by epilepsy in the age group under 25 years steadily decreased. The 
proportion of DALYs caused by epilepsy in people aged 50 years and over 
increased from 9.45% and 10.22% in 1990 to 29.01% and 32.72% for male and female 
individuals in 2019, respectively. The highest age-standardized mortality rates 
were seen in Tibet (4.26 [95% UI: 1.43-5.66]/100,000), Qinghai (1.80 [95% UI: 
1.15-2.36]/100,000), and Yunnan (1.30 [95% UI: 0.88-1.62]/100,000), and the 
lowest mortality rates were in Guangdong (0.48 [95% UI: 0.39-0.64]/100,000), 
Zhejiang (0.56 [95% UI: 0.44-0.70]/100,000), and Shanghai (0.57 [95% UI: 
0.41-0.73]/100,000). The age-standardized DALY rates across the country and in 
provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions generally decreased as their 
SDI increased.
CONCLUSIONS: The disease burden of epilepsy is still heavy in China, especially 
in the western provinces. The incidence and prevalence of epilepsy increased 
between 1990 and 2019, and the burden of epilepsy in the elderly increases 
gradually. This study provides evidence on epilepsy prevention and care of 
different regions in China.

Copyright © 2023 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, 
Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.

DOI: 10.1097/CM9.0000000000002526
PMCID: PMC10106145
PMID: 36752807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


904. J Exp Orthop. 2023 Feb 8;10(1):12. doi: 10.1186/s40634-022-00565-w.

Satisfactory outcomes of patellar tendon reconstruction using achilles' tendon 
allograft with bone block after infected total knee arthroplasty.

Kyriakidis T(1)(2), Pitsilos C(3), Hernigou J(4), Verdonk R(5), Hantes M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology, Erasme University 
Hospital, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Route de Lennik 808, 1070, Brussels, 
Belgium. the.kyriakidis@gmail.com.
(2)2nd Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology, Aristotle University 
of Thessaloniki, "G. Gennimatas" General Hospital, Ethnikis Aminis 41, 54635, 
Thessaloniki, Hellas. the.kyriakidis@gmail.com.
(3)2nd Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology, Aristotle University 
of Thessaloniki, "G. Gennimatas" General Hospital, Ethnikis Aminis 41, 54635, 
Thessaloniki, Hellas.
(4)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Centre Hospitalier EpiCURA, 
Sites Hornu/Baudour, Hainaut, Belgium.
(5)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology, Erasme University 
Hospital, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Route de Lennik 808, 1070, Brussels, 
Belgium.
(6)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Thessaly, 41500, Larissa, Greece.

PURPOSE: Extensor mechanism disruption is an uncommon and 
devastating complication after total knee arthroplasty. It negatively affects 
patients' quality of life and leads to significant functional limitations and 
the inability to stand and walk. The purpose of the present study was to 
evaluate the outcomes of the extensor mechanism reconstruction using Achilles' 
tendon allograft after infected total knee arthroplasty. It was hypothesized 
that it is a safe procedure and that patients will present good clinical and 
functional results.
METHODS: Ten patients treated for infra-patellar extensor mechanism disruption 
after infected total knee arthroplasty were prospectively followed for two 
years. The mean age of patients was 70.8 (range 55-85), with a median BMI of 
28.72 ± 2.2 kg/m2. All patients underwent reconstruction using a fresh frozen 
Achilles tendon allograft. Preoperative and postoperative evaluation included 
knee-related clinical and functional assessment based on objective and 
subjective scores, including the knee flexion, the extension lag, the Knee 
Society Score (KSS) clinical and functional, and the visual analog scale (VAS) 
for pain at 12 and 24 months. Radiological evaluation was also performed using 
the Caton-Deschamps index. Reported complications were also recorded.
RESULTS: Clinical and functional outcomes recorded significant improvements 
(p < 0.05) at the final follow-up compared with baseline as follows: Knee 
flexion was improved from 66° ± 4.8 to 99.7° ± 3.9, and the extension lag was 
decreased from 28.3° ± 4.4 to 9° ± 2.7. The mean KSS clinical and functional 
were also improved from 22.6 ± 7.9 to 73.4 ± 3.9 and from 10 ± 13.8 to 55 ± 
13.8, respectively. The VAS for pain was decreased from 8.1 ± 1.2 to 1.9 ± 1.2. 
The Caton-Deschamps index demonstrated a tendency to patella Alta. Two treatment 
failures were recorded, one patellar dislocation and one re-rupture revised to 
arthrodesis.
CONCLUSIONS: Extensor mechanism reconstruction using Achilles' tendon allograft 
after infected total knee arthroplasty is an efficient and safe procedure for 
infra-patellar disruption. The present study's findings demonstrate that most of 
the patients (80%) presented significant clinical and functional improvement at 
two-year follow-up.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40634-022-00565-w
PMCID: PMC9908794
PMID: 36752929

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


905. Rev Salud Publica (Bogota). 2019 May 1;21(3):349-356. doi: 
10.15446/rsap.V21n3.54862.

[Trends and impact of mortality from violent causes of death in Colombia and 
Mexico, 2000-2013].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Dávila-Cervantes CA(1), Pardo-Montano AM(2).

Author information:
(1)CD: Lic. Actuaría M. Sc. Demografía. Ph.D. Estudios de Población, Colegio de 
México (Col-mex). Facultad Latinoamericana de Ciencias Sociales (FLACSO) sede 
México. Ciudad de México, México. claudio.davila@flacso.edu.mx.
(2)AP: Lic. Ciencias Sociales. M.Sc. Población y Desarrollo. Ph.D. Geografía. 
Instituto de Geografía, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM). Circuito 
de la Investigación Científica, Ciudad Universitaria. Coyoacán, Ciudad de 
México, México. melisa.pardo@comunidad.unam.mx.

OBJECTIVE: Given that violence is a public health problem of the first order in 
Mexico and Colombia, the main objective of this research was the trend, level 
and impact analysis of mortality due to violence [homicides, suicides, traffic 
accidents (TA) and other accidents (OA)] between 2000 and 2013, nationally by 
sex and age groups.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Mortality vital statistics from official sources were 
used. The years of life lost (YLL) between 0 and 100 years of age and the 
contribution of deaths by violent causes to life expectancy at birth (e 0 ) 
change were calculated.
RESULTS: In Colombia an important decrease of mortality due to violence was 
observed since 2002 in all the selected causes of death and both sexes. In 
Mexico, there was not a meaningful increase of mortality due to all violent 
causes together; by causes of death, the observed decrease of mortality due to 
TA and OA was cancelled by the sustained increase of mortality by suicides and 
the increase of homicides since 2008. From 2011 to 2013, Mexico presented a 
higher number of YLL than Colombia due to violent causes of death that further 
illustrates the opposite trends in both countries.
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality due to violence can be prevented by implementing programs 
and strategies that take into account the ages where it has a biggest impact, 
from a gender perspective and with a multidisciplinary approach.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Dado que la violencia es un problema de salud pública de 
primera magnitud en México y Colombia, esta investigación tuvo como objetivo 
analizar los niveles, tendencias e impacto de la mortalidad por causas violentas 
-homicidios, suicidios, accidentes de tránsito (AT) y otros accidentes (OT) - 
entre 2000-2013, a nivel nacional, por sexo y grupos de edad.
MÉTODOS: Se emplearon estadísticas vitales de mortalidad de fuentes oficiales. 
Se calcularon los años de vida perdidos (AVP) entre 0-100 años de edad y la 
contribución de las causas de muerte violentas al cambio en la esperanza de vida 
al nacimiento (e 0 ).
RESULTADOS: En Colombia se observó un descenso significativo de la mortalidad 
por violencia a partir de 2002, en todas las causas de muerte consideradas y en 
ambos sexos. En México, no se presentó un incremento significativo de la 
mortalidad por violencia en conjunto; por causas de muerte se observó una 
reducción de la mortalidad por AT y OA, la cual fue anulada por el incremento 
sostenido de la mortalidad por suicidios y el aumento de homicidios a partir de 
2008. A partir de 2011, México presentó un mayor número de AVP por el conjunto 
de causas violentas que Colombia, en ambos sexos, lo que claramente ilustra las 
tendencias opuestas de la mortalidad por violencia en ambos países.
CONCLUSIONES: La mortalidad por violencia se puede prevenir por medio de 
programas y estrategias que tomen en cuenta las edades donde tiene mayor 
impacto, con una perspectiva de género y con un enfoque multidisciplinario.

DOI: 10.15446/rsap.V21n3.54862
PMID: 36753180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Rev Med Suisse. 2023 Feb 8;19(813):286-291. doi: 
10.53738/REVMED.2023.19.813.286.

[Quality of life assessment as a gateway to the patient's individuality].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Chapuisat L(1), Janett-Pellegri C(2), Ribordy-Baudat V(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine interne, HFR Fribourg, 1752 Villars-sur-Glâne.
(2)Service de soins palliatifs, HFR Fribourg, 1752 Villars-sur-Glâne.

In the context of increasing life expectancy and complex medical situations, 
quality of life assessment can be a gateway to the patient's individuality and 
support medical decision making. There are different qualitative and 
quantitative assessment tools, ranging from a simple question that starts the 
discussion to standardized questionnaires. It is necessary to distinguish 
quality of life assessment in its economic, research and quality of care 
improvement perspective, from its evaluation within the doctor-patient 
relationship. Questionnaires such as Patient-Reported Outcome Measures (PROMs) 
could be interesting in daily clinical practice to improve communication and 
consultation efficiency, but their routine implementation still remains a 
challenge.

Publisher: Dans le contexte de l’augmentation de l’espérance de vie et de 
situations médicales complexes, l’évaluation de la qualité de vie permet de 
s’ouvrir à l’individualité du patient et soutient la décision médicale. Il 
existe différents outils qualitatifs et quantitatifs pour l’évaluer allant d’une 
simple question qui ouvre le dialogue à des questionnaires standardisés. Il 
convient de dissocier l’évaluation de la qualité de vie dans sa perspective 
économique, de recherche et d’amélioration de la qualité des soins, de son 
évaluation au sein de la relation médecin-malade. Les questionnaires de type 
Patient-Reported Outcome Measures (PROMs) pourraient s’avérer intéressants dans 
la pratique quotidienne pour améliorer la communication et l’efficience d’une 
consultation, mais leur mode d’implémentation en routine reste un défi.

DOI: 10.53738/REVMED.2023.19.813.286
PMID: 36753346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Les auteurs n’ont déclaré aucun conflit 
d’intérêts en relation avec cet article.


907. BMJ Open. 2023 Feb 8;13(2):e062744. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-062744.

Trends in mortality related to unintentional poisoning in the South Asian region 
from 1990 to 2019: analysis of data from the Global Burden of Disease Study.

Khan NU(1), Khan U(2), Khudadad U(2), Ali A(2), Raheem A(2), Waheed S(3), Razzak 
JA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, The Aga Khan University, Karachi, Pakistan 
nadeemullah.khan@aku.edu.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, The Aga Khan University, Karachi, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi, 
Pakistan.
(4)Department of Emergency Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to estimate the burden of unintentional poisoning in 
South Asian countries from 1999 to 2019.
DESIGN: An ecological study conducted at the regional level for South Asian 
countries, based on data from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.
SETTING: We extracted unintentional poisoning data from the Global Burden of 
Disease Study data set from 1990 to 2019 to assess trends in mortality, 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), years of life lost, years lived with 
disability (YLDs) and causative agents in South Asian countries (Bangladesh, 
Bhutan, India, Nepal and Pakistan).
OUTCOME MEASURES: We determined the per cent change and 95% CI for the period 
between 1990 and 2019 by age, gender and country. We also conducted Poisson 
regression to measure the percentage change in the rate per year.
RESULTS: The absolute number of deaths due to unintentional poisoning in South 
Asia decreased (-32.6%) from 10 558 deaths in 1990 to 7112 deaths in 2019. The 
age standardised death rate from unintentional poisoning in South Asia has seen 
a downward trend (-55.88%), declining from 0.87 (0.67-1.01) age-standardised per 
100 000 population in 1990 to 0.41 (0.34-0.47) in 2019. Among age groups, under 
9 years and 10-19 years have seen downward trends for death and DALYs, 
accounting for -93.5% and -38.3%, respectively. YLDs have seen an upward trend 
(5.9%), increasing from 10 461.7 per 100 000 in 1990 to 11 084 per 100 000 in 
2019. YLDs in women increased by 7.4%, from 11 558.2 per 100 000 to 12 418.3 per 
100 000. The incidence rate ratios (IRRs) adjusted by all age groups and gender 
for DALYs in all South Asian countries has reduced significantly (IRR 0.97, 95% 
CI 0.96 to 0.97) from 1990 to 2019.
CONCLUSION: This study showed reduction in death and DALYs due to unintentional 
poisoning in South Asia except YLDs which is showing an increasing trend. Public 
health systems should continue efforts to minimise and prevent disabilities 
arising from unintentional poisoning in South Asia.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-062744
PMCID: PMC9923325
PMID: 36754559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


908. BMC Biol. 2023 Feb 8;21(1):29. doi: 10.1186/s12915-023-01513-5.

The broad use of the Pm8 resistance gene in wheat resulted in hypermutation of 
the AvrPm8 gene in the powdery mildew pathogen.

Kunz L(1), Sotiropoulos AG(1), Graf J(1), Razavi M(2), Keller B(3), Müller 
MC(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, University of Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(2)Iranian Research Institute of Plant Protection, Agricultural Research, 
Education and Extension Organization, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, University of Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland. bkeller@botinst.uzh.ch.
(4)Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, University of Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland. marion.mueller@botinst.uzh.ch.
(5)Chair of Phytopathology, TUM School of Life Sciences, Technical University of 
Munich, Freising, Germany. marion.mueller@botinst.uzh.ch.

BACKGROUND: Worldwide wheat production is under constant threat by fast-evolving 
fungal pathogens. In the last decades, wheat breeding for disease resistance 
heavily relied on the introgression of chromosomal segments from related species 
as genetic sources of new resistance. The Pm8 resistance gene against the 
powdery mildew disease has been introgressed from rye into wheat as part of a 
large 1BL.1RS chromosomal translocation encompassing multiple disease resistance 
genes and yield components. Due to its high agronomic value, this translocation 
has seen continuous global use since the 1960s on large growth areas, even after 
Pm8 resistance was overcome by the powdery mildew pathogen. The long-term use of 
Pm8 at a global scale provided the unique opportunity to study the consequences 
of such extensive resistance gene application on pathogen evolution.
RESULTS: Using genome-wide association studies in a population of wheat mildew 
isolates, we identified the avirulence effector AvrPm8 specifically recognized 
by Pm8. Haplovariant mining in a global mildew population covering all major 
wheat growing areas of the world revealed 17 virulent haplotypes of the AvrPm8 
gene that grouped into two functional categories. The first one comprised amino 
acid polymorphisms at a single position along the AvrPm8 protein, which we 
confirmed to be crucial for the recognition by Pm8. The second category 
consisted of numerous destructive mutations to the AvrPm8 open reading frame 
such as disruptions of the start codon, gene truncations, gene deletions, and 
interference with mRNA splicing. With the exception of a single, likely ancient, 
gain-of-virulence mutation found in mildew isolates around the world, all AvrPm8 
virulence haplotypes were found in geographically restricted regions, indicating 
that they occurred recently as a consequence of the frequent Pm8 use.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we show that the broad and prolonged use of the Pm8 
gene in wheat production worldwide resulted in a multitude of gain-of-virulence 
mechanisms affecting the AvrPm8 gene in the wheat powdery mildew pathogen. Based 
on our findings, we conclude that both standing genetic variation as well as 
locally occurring new mutations contributed to the global breakdown of the Pm8 
resistance gene introgression.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12915-023-01513-5
PMCID: PMC9909948
PMID: 36755285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


909. J Asthma. 2023 Sep;60(9):1668-1676. doi: 10.1080/02770903.2023.2178007. Epub
 2023 Mar 6.

Vitamin D supplementation for children with mild to moderate asthma: an economic 
evaluation.

Antonio Buendía J(1), Patiño DG(1), Lindarte EF(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Group in Pharmacology and Toxicology "INFARTO", Department of 
Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.

INTRODUCTION: A large proportion of asthma patients remain uncontrolled despite 
using inhaled corticosteroids. Some add-on therapies such as vitamin D 
supplements have been recommended for this subgroup of patients. The purpose of 
this study was to assess the cost-utility of vitamin D supplementation in 
children with mild to moderate persistent asthma in Colombia.
METHODS: A probabilistic Markov model was created to estimate the cost and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) of patients with severe asthma in Colombia. 
The model was analyzed probabilistically, and a value of information (VOI) 
analysis was conducted to inform the value of conducting further research to 
reduce current uncertainties in the evidence base. Cost-effectiveness was 
evaluated at a willingness-to-pay (WTP) value of US$5180.
RESULTS: The mean incremental cost of vitamin D supplementation versus no 
supplementation is USD $44.60. The mean incremental benefit of vitamin D 
supplementation versus no supplementation is 0.05 QALY. This position of 
absolute dominance (vitamin D supplementation has lower costs and higher QALYs 
than no supplementation) is unnecessary to estimate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio. Our base-case results were robust to variations in all 
assumptions and parameters.
CONCLUSION: Add-on therapy with vitamin D supplementation is a cost-effective 
strategy for patients between 6 and 17 years of age with mild to moderate asthma 
in Colombia.

DOI: 10.1080/02770903.2023.2178007
PMID: 36755388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Epidemiol Psychiatr Sci. 2023 Feb 9;32:e8. doi: 10.1017/S2045796023000045.

Schizophrenia as a risk factor for cardiovascular and metabolic health outcomes: 
a comparative risk assessment.

Ali S(1)(2), Santomauro D(1)(2), Ferrari AJ(1)(2), Charlson F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.
(2)Queensland Centre for Mental Health Research, Brisbane, Australia.

AIMS: Cardiometabolic diseases are responsible for the majority of premature 
deaths in people with schizophrenia. This study aimed to quantify the fatal 
burden of ischaemic heart disease (IHD), stroke and diabetes attributable to 
schizophrenia.
METHODS: Comparative Risk Assessment methodology from the Global Burden of 
Disease (GBD) study was used to calculate attributable burden; pooled relative 
risks (RRs) for IHD, stroke and diabetes were estimated via meta-regression, 
which were combined with GBD schizophrenia prevalence estimates to calculate the 
deaths and years of life lost (YLLs) caused by these health outcomes that were 
attributable to schizophrenia. The proportion of explained all-cause fatal 
burden and corresponding unexplained burden was also calculated.
RESULTS: The pooled RRs for IHD, stroke and diabetes mortality were 2.36 [95% 
uncertainty interval (UI) 1.77 to 3.14], 1.86 (95% UI 1.36 to 2.54) and 4.08 
(95% UI 3.80 to 4.38) respectively. Schizophrenia was responsible for around 50 
000 deaths and almost 1.5 million YLLs globally in 2019 from these health 
outcomes combined. IHD, stroke and diabetes together explained around 13% of all 
deaths and almost 11% of all YLLs attributable to schizophrenia, resulting in 
320 660 (95% UI 288 299 to 356 517) unexplained deaths and 12 258 690 (95% UI 10 
925 426 to 13 713 646) unexplained YLLs.
CONCLUSIONS: Quantifying the physical disease burden attributable to 
schizophrenia provides a means of capturing the substantial excess mortality 
associated with this disorder within the GBD framework, contributing to an 
important evidence base for healthcare planning and practice.

DOI: 10.1017/S2045796023000045
PMCID: PMC9971851
PMID: 36756905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. J Insect Sci. 2023 Jan 1;23(1):9. doi: 10.1093/jisesa/ieac073.

Same-sex Pairs Retain Their Reproductive Capacity as a Potential Opportunity for 
Individual Reproductive Success in Termites.

Wu J(1)(2), Wang J(1)(2)(3), Wang Y(4), Hassan A(5).

Author information:
(1)Applied Research Center for Life Science, Xi'an International University, 
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710077, China.
(2)College of Medicine, Xi'an International University, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710077, 
China.
(3)Engineering Research Center of Personalized Anti-aging Health Product 
Development and Transformation, Universities of Shaanxi Province, Xi'an, Shaanxi 
710077, China.
(4)College of Engineering, Xi'an International University, Xi'an, Shaanxi 
710077, China.
(5)Hubei Insect Resources Utilization and Sustainable Pest Management Key 
Laboratory, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan 430070, Hubei, China.

In eusocial termites, successful pairing is an essential element of dispersal 
and distribution after the departure of alates from natal colonies. Two 
situations could arise during the pairing process: mixed-sex pairs and same-sex 
pairs. However, most previous studies focused on mixed-sex pairs, overlooking 
groups formed by same-sex pairings, especially potential fecundity (the total 
number of oocytes or ovarioles), oogenesis and the development stage of oocytes 
of females in female-female pairs, and spermatogenesis and testis development of 
males in male-male pairs. In this study, through experimentation, we 
investigated the reproductive ability of virgin dealates based on various 
pairing types as mentioned above. We found that the life spans of virgin 
dealates can cover 1 yr or even more when they establish a nest with a partner, 
which is more than 10-fold longer than the life span of individuals establishing 
a colony alone. After 1 yr of pairing, the potential fecundity of virgin same 
sex dealates did not degenerate significantly compared with newly emerged 
dealates, including the number of ovarioles, size of testis, oogenesis, and the 
development stage of the oocytes. Moreover, when individuals of same-sex 
pairings experimentally changed into mixed-sex pairs after 1 yr, the eggs 
produced in the colony hatched into larvae. These findings suggest that dealates 
which through same-sex pairs retain fecundity after 1 yr have more reproductive 
potential than dealates that failed to pair with heterosexuals, shedding light 
on the ecological significance of homosexual behaviors in terms of the 
successful extension and fecundity of eusocial termites.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/jisesa/ieac073
PMCID: PMC9909647
PMID: 36757064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Pharmacoeconomics. 2023 Apr;41(4):353-361. doi: 10.1007/s40273-023-01247-w.
Epub  2023 Feb 9.

Pralsetinib for RET Fusion-Positive Advanced Non-small-Cell Lung Cancer: An 
Evidence Review Group Perspective of a NICE Single Technology Appraisal.

Al Khayat MNMT(1)(2), Armstrong N(3), Howick J(3), O'Meara S(3), Posadzki P(3), 
Ryder S(3), Ahmadu C(3), Konings SRA(4), Postma MJ(5)(6), Duffy S(3), Wolff 
RF(3), van Asselt ADI(5)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Center Groningen (UMCG), Hanzeplein 1, PO Box 30.001, 9700 RB, Groningen, The 
Netherlands. m.n.m.t.al.khayat@umcg.nl.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Isala Hospital Zwolle, Zwolle, The 
Netherlands. m.n.m.t.al.khayat@umcg.nl.
(3)Kleijnen Systematic Reviews Ltd, York, UK.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University of Groningen, University Medical Center 
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Center Groningen (UMCG), Hanzeplein 1, PO Box 30.001, 9700 RB, Groningen, The 
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Economics, Econometrics and Finance, Faculty of Economics, 
University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(7)Department of Epidemiology, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) invited the 
manufacturer (Roche) of pralsetinib (Gavreto®), as part of the single technology 
appraisal (STA) process, to submit evidence for the clinical effectiveness and 
cost effectiveness of pralsetinib for the treatment of adult patients with 
rearranged during transfection (RET) fusion-positive advanced non-small-cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC) not previously treated with a RET inhibitor. Kleijnen 
Systematic Reviews Ltd, in collaboration with University Medical Center 
Groningen, was commissioned to act as the independent Evidence Review Group 
(ERG). This paper summarizes the company submission (CS), presents the ERG's 
critical review of the clinical and cost-effectiveness evidence in the CS, 
highlights the key methodological considerations, and describes the development 
of the NICE guidance by the Appraisal Committee. The CS reported data from the 
ARROW trial. ARROW is a single-arm, multicenter, non-randomized, open-label, 
multi-cohort study in patients with RET fusion-positive NSCLC and other advanced 
solid tumors. The CS included both untreated and pre-treated RET fusion-positive 
NSCLC patients, among other disease types. The comparators in the untreated 
population were pembrolizumab + pemetrexed + chemotherapy and pembrolizumab 
monotherapy. The comparators for the pre-treated population were docetaxel 
monotherapy, docetaxel + nintedanib, and platinum-based chemotherapy ± 
pemetrexed. As no comparators were included in ARROW, an indirect treatment 
comparison was conducted to estimate relative effectiveness. The ERG's concerns 
included the immaturity of data, small sample size, and lack of comparative 
safety evidence. The ERG considers the clinical evidence presented to be 
insufficiently robust to inform the economic model. Even when all the ERG 
preferred assumptions were implemented in the model, uncertainty remained on a 
number of issues, such as the appropriateness of the hazard ratios and the 
methods and data used to derive them, long-term efficacy of pralsetinib, and 
direct evidence for health-related quality of life (HRQoL). NICE did not 
recommend pralsetinib within its marketing authorization for treating RET 
fusion-positive advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in adults who have 
not had a RET inhibitor before. The uncertainty of the clinical evidence and the 
estimates of cost effectiveness were too high to be considered a cost-effective 
use of NHS resources. Therefore, pralsetinib was not recommended for routine 
use.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-023-01247-w
PMCID: PMC10020319
PMID: 36757608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MA, NA, JH, SO, PP, SR, CA, SK, MP, SD, RW, AvA 
have no conflicts of interest to declare.


913. Curr Med Res Opin. 2023 Mar;39(3):433-440. doi:
10.1080/03007995.2023.2178081.  Epub 2023 Feb 17.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy for patients with 
recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer in China.

Zheng Z(1), Song X(2), Qiu G(1), Xu S(1), Cai H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Cancer Hospital of Shantou University Medical 
College, Shantou, China.
(2)Department of Quality Management, Ganzhou Fifth People's Hospital, Ganzhou, 
China.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, Fuzhou, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of adding pembrolizumab to various 
therapy combinations in patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer 
from the Chinese perspective.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The clinical data for our model was taken from the 
KEYNOTE-826 trial. The direct costs and utilities were collected from local 
price databases or previously published literature. A three-state partitioned 
survival model was designed to simulate the disease process of patients with 
recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer. All costs were estimated in US dollars, 
with an annual RMB exchange rate of $1 to 6.45 Yuan in 2021. The willingness to 
pay threshold (WTP) was set at US$37,663.26/QALY. One-way sensitivity analyses 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed to evaluate the influence 
of variables on the model parameters.
RESULTS: For patients with a programmed death-ligand 1 combined positive score 
greater than 1,compared to the chemotherapy group, pembrolizumab plus 
chemotherapy contributed an incremental 1.12 Quality-adjusted Life Years (QALYs) 
