
DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20054354
PMCID: PMC10001711
PMID: 36901364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


323. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Feb 28;20(5):4378. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20054378.

Research on the Sustainable Renewal of Architectural Heritage Sites from the 
Perspective of Extenics-Using the Example of Tulou Renovations in 
LantianVillage, Longyan City.

You X(1), Zhang Y(1), Tu Z(1), Xu L(2), Li L(1), Lin R(1), Chen K(1), Chen S(1), 
Ren W(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Landscape Architecture and Art, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry 
University, Fuzhou 350002, China.
(2)Jinshan College of Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou 350002, 
China.

Fujian Tulous in China are important international architectural heritage sites 
that reflect precious human cultural heritage. Currently, only a small number of 
Tulou buildings have been listed as world cultural heritage sites, resulting in 
a lack of attention and financial support for most Tulou buildings. Thus, it is 
difficult to effectively renovate and repair Tulou buildings to adapt to modern 
life, and therefore they are facing the severe challenge of abandonment and 
desolation. Due to the special conditions of Tulou buildings, there are 
significant limitations in renovation and repair work, with a number of problems 
such as the lack of innovative renovations. Therefore, through a problem model 
analysis of a design system for Tulou renovations, in this study, we adopt the 
methods of divergent tree, conjugate pair, correlative net, implied system, and 
split-merge chain analyses in extenics to carry out extension transformation and 
solve the problem and we verify its feasibility using the example of the Tulou 
renovation projects in Lantian Village, Longyan City. We explore an innovative 
methodology for scientific renovation of Tulou buildings, and we establish a 
design system for Tulou building renovations that enriches and supplements 
original renovation methods; thus, we provide a basis for the repair and reuse 
of Tulou buildings, to extend their service life and to realize the sustainable 
development of Tulou buildings. The research results show that extenics can be 
implemented in innovative renovations of Tulou buildings, and it is concluded 
that the essence of achieving sustainable renewal in Tulou building renovations 
is to solve contradictory problems, including contradictions in conditions, 
objectives, and design. This study verifies the possibility of applying extenics 
in the design of Tulou building renovations, makes corresponding contributions 
to the application of extension methods in the renovation and renewal of Tulou 
buildings, and also contributes to the renovation, renewal, and protection of 
other types of architectural heritage sites.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20054378
PMCID: PMC10002194
PMID: 36901388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


324. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Mar 5;20(5):4612. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20054612.

Socioeconomic Disparities in Individual-Level Quality-Adjusted Life Years 
throughout Remaining Lifetimes: A National Representative Longitudinal Survey in 
China.

Huang X(1), Pei X(1), Jian W(2), Xu M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health (Shenzhen), Sun Yat-sen University, Gongchang Road 
66, Shenzhen 518107, China.
(2)Department of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, Xueyuan Road 38, Haidian District, Beijing 100191, China.

Socioeconomic disparities in health within and across low- and middle-income 
countries pose a significant global public health concern. While prior research 
has demonstrated the importance of socioeconomic status on health outcomes, few 
studies have employed comprehensive measures of individual-level health such as 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) in exploring the quantitative relationship. 
In our study, we employed QALYs to measure individual-level health, using 
health-related quality of life scores based on the Short Form 36 and predicted 
remaining life years through individual-specific Weibull survival analysis. We 
then constructed a linear regression model to explore the socioeconomic factors 
that influence QALYs, providing a predictive model of individual-level QALYs 
throughout remaining lifetimes. This practical tool can help individuals predict 
their remaining healthy life years. Using data from the China Health and 
Retirement Longitudinal Study between 2011 and 2018, we found that education and 
occupation were the primary factors influencing health outcomes among 
individuals aged 45 and above, while income appeared to have less of an impact 
when education and occupation were simultaneously controlled for. To promote the 
health status of this population, low- and middle-income countries should 
prioritize the long-term advancement of their population's education while 
controlling unemployment rates in the short term.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20054612
PMCID: PMC10001792
PMID: 36901620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


325. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Feb 23;24(5):4399. doi: 10.3390/ijms24054399.

Natural Alkaloids as Multi-Target Compounds towards Factors Implicated in 
Alzheimer's Disease.

Vrabec R(1), Blunden G(2), Cahlíková L(1).

Author information:
(1)Secondary Metabolites of Plants as Potential Drugs Research Group, Department 
of Pharmacognosy and Pharmaceutical Botany, Faculty of Pharmacy, Charles 
University, Heyrovského 1203, 500 05 Hradec Králové, Czech Republic.
(2)School of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences, University of Portsmouth, 
Portsmouth PO1 2DT, UK.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in elderly people; 
currently, there is no efficient treatment. Considering the increase in life 
expectancy worldwide AD rates are predicted to increase enormously, and thus the 
search for new AD drugs is urgently needed. A great amount of experimental and 
clinical evidence indicated that AD is a complex disorder characterized by 
widespread neurodegeneration of the CNS, with major involvement of the 
cholinergic system, causing progressive cognitive decline and dementia. The 
current treatment, based on the cholinergic hypothesis, is only symptomatic and 
mainly involves the restoration of acetylcholine (ACh) levels through the 
inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Since the introduction of the 
Amaryllidaceae alkaloid galanthamine as an antidementia drug in 2001, alkaloids 
have been one of the most attractive groups for searching for new AD drugs. The 
present review aims to comprehensively summarize alkaloids of various origins as 
multi-target compounds for AD. From this point of view, the most promising 
compounds seem to be the β-carboline alkaloid harmine and several isoquinoline 
alkaloids since they can simultaneously inhibit several key enzymes of AD's 
pathophysiology. However, this topic remains open for further research on 
detailed mechanisms of action and the synthesis of potentially better 
semi-synthetic analogues.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms24054399
PMCID: PMC10003045
PMID: 36901826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


326. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Feb 24;24(5):4491. doi: 10.3390/ijms24054491.

Influence of the Mediterranean Diet on Healthy Aging.

Andreo-López MC(1), Contreras-Bolívar V(1)(2), Muñoz-Torres M(1)(2)(3)(4), 
García-Fontana B(2)(3)(5), García-Fontana C(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology and Nutrition Unit, University Hospital Clínico San Cecilio, 
18016 Granada, Spain.
(2)Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria de Granada (Ibs. Granada), 18014 
Granada, Spain.
(3)CIBER on Frailty and Healthy Aging (CIBERFES), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 
18012 Granada, Spain.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Granada, 18016 Granada, Spain.
(5)Department of Cell Biology, University of Granada, 18016 Granada, Spain.

The life expectancy of the global population has increased. Aging is a natural 
physiological process that poses major challenges in an increasingly long-lived 
and frail population. Several molecular mechanisms are involved in aging. 
Likewise, the gut microbiota, which is influenced by environmental factors such 
as diet, plays a crucial role in the modulation of these mechanisms. The 
Mediterranean diet, as well as the components present in it, offer some proof of 
this. Achieving healthy aging should be focused on the promotion of healthy 
lifestyle habits that reduce the development of pathologies that are associated 
with aging, in order to increase the quality of life of the aging population. In 
this review we analyze the influence of the Mediterranean diet on the molecular 
pathways and the microbiota associated with more favorable aging patterns, as 
well as its possible role as an anti-aging treatment.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms24054491
PMCID: PMC10003249
PMID: 36901921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


327. Polymers (Basel). 2023 Feb 23;15(5):1125. doi: 10.3390/polym15051125.

Chemical Structure and Microscopic Morphology Changes of Dyed Wood Holocellulose 
Exposed to UV Irradiation.

Shi H(1)(2), Ni Y(2), Guo H(1)(3), Liu Y(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)National Forestry and Grassland Engineering Technology Center for Wood 
Resources Recycling, Beijing Forestry University, Beijing 100083, China.
(2)Jirong Furniture Co., Ltd., Cangzhou 062150, China.
(3)Beijing Key Laboratory of Wood Science and Engineering, Beijing Forestry 
University, Beijing 100083, China.

Dyed wood is prone to photoaging when exposed to UV irradiation which decreases 
its decorative effect and service life. Holocellulose, as the main component of 
dyed wood, has a photodegradation behavior which is still unclear. To 
investigate the effect of UV irradiation on chemical structure and microscopic 
morphology changes of dyed wood holocellulose, Maple birch (Betulacostata 
Trautv) dyed wood and holocellulose were exposed to UV accelerated aging 
treatment; the photoresponsivity includes crystallization, chemical structure, 
thermal stability, and microstructure were studied. Results showed that UV 
radiation has no significant effect on the lattice structure of dyed wood 
fibers. The wood crystal zone diffraction 2θ and layer spacing was basically 
unchanged. With the UV radiation time extension, the relative crystallinity of 
dyed wood and holocellulose showed a trend of increasing first and then 
decreasing, but the overall change was not significant. The relative 
crystallinity change range of the dyed wood was not more than 3%, and the dyed 
holocellulose was not more than 5%. UV radiation caused the molecular chain 
chemical bond in the non-crystalline region of dyed holocellulose to break, the 
fiber underwent photooxidation degradation, and the surface photoetching feature 
was prominent. Wood fiber morphology was damaged and destroyed, finally leading 
to the degradation and corrosion of the dyed wood. Studying the photodegradation 
of holocellulose is helpful to understand the photochromic mechanism of dyed 
wood, and, further, to improve its weather resistance.

DOI: 10.3390/polym15051125
PMCID: PMC10007622
PMID: 36904366

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


328. Polymers (Basel). 2023 Feb 27;15(5):1209. doi: 10.3390/polym15051209.

Study of Candelilla Wax Concentrations on the Physical Properties of Edible 
Nanocoatings as a Function of Support Polysaccharides.

García-Betanzos CI(1)(2), Hernández-Sánchez H(2), Ojeda-Piedra SA(1), 
Ulloa-Saavedra A(1), Quintanar-Guerrero D(3), Zambrano-Zaragoza ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Procesos de Transformación y Tecnologías Emergentes de 
Alimentos, Facultad de Estudios Superiores Cuautitlán, Universidad Nacional 
Autónoma de México, Cuautitlán Izcalli CP 54714, Mexico.
(2)Laboratorio de Biotecnología de Alimentos, Escuela Nacional de Ciencias 
Biológicas, Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Ciudad de México CP 07738, Mexico.
(3)Laboratorio de Investigación y Posgrado en Tecnologías Farmacéuticas, 
Facultad de Estudios Superiores Cuautitlán, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de 
México, Cuautitlán Izcalli CP 54745, Mexico.

Solid lipid nanoparticles (SLN) based on candelilla wax were prepared using the 
hot homogenization technique. The resulting suspension had monomodal behavior 
with a particle size of 809-885 nm; polydispersity index < 0.31, and zeta 
potential of -3.5 mV 5 weeks after monitoring. The films were prepared with SLN 
concentrations of 20 and 60 g/L, each with a plasticizer concentration of 10 and 
30 g/L; the polysaccharide stabilizers used were either xanthan gum (XG) or 
carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) at 3 g/L. The effects of temperature, film 
composition, and relative humidity on the microstructural, thermal, mechanical, 
and optical properties, as well as the water vapor barrier, were evaluated. 
Higher amounts of SLN and plasticizer gave the films greater strength and 
flexibility due to the influence of temperature and relative humidity. The water 
vapor permeability (WVP) was lower when 60 g/L of SLN was added to the films. 
The arrangement of the SLN in the polymeric networks showed changes in the 
distribution as a function of the concentrations of the SLN and plasticizer. The 
total color difference (ΔE) was greater when the content of the SLN was 
increased, with values of 3.34-7.93. Thermal analysis showed an increase in the 
melting temperature when a higher SLN content was used, whereas a higher 
plasticizer content reduced it. Edible films with the most appropriate physical 
properties for the packaging, shelf-life extension, and improved quality 
conservation of fresh foods were those made with 20 g/L of SLN, 30 g/L of 
glycerol, and 3 g/L of XG.

DOI: 10.3390/polym15051209
PMCID: PMC10007281
PMID: 36904450

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


329. Sensors (Basel). 2023 Feb 22;23(5):2451. doi: 10.3390/s23052451.

Automated Low-Cost Soil Moisture Sensors: Trade-Off between Cost and Accuracy.

Schwamback D(1)(2), Persson M(1), Berndtsson R(1), Bertotto LE(2), Kobayashi 
ANA(2), Wendland EC(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Water Resources Engineering, Department of Building and 
Environmental Technology, Lund University, Box 118, SE-221 00 Lund, Sweden.
(2)Department of Hydraulics and Sanitation, São Carlos School of Engineering, 
University of São Paulo, CxP. 359, São Carlos 13566-590, Brazil.

Automated soil moisture systems are commonly used in precision agriculture. 
Using low-cost sensors, the spatial extension can be maximized, but the accuracy 
might be reduced. In this paper, we address the trade-off between cost and 
accuracy comparing low-cost and commercial soil moisture sensors. The analysis 
is based on the capacitive sensor SKU:SEN0193 tested under lab and field 
conditions. In addition to individual calibration, two simplified calibration 
techniques are proposed: universal calibration, based on all 63 sensors, and a 
single-point calibration using the sensor response in dry soil. During the 
second stage of testing, the sensors were coupled to a low-cost monitoring 
station and installed in the field. The sensors were capable of measuring daily 
and seasonal oscillations in soil moisture resulting from solar radiation and 
precipitation. The low-cost sensor performance was compared to commercial 
sensors based on five variables: (1) cost, (2) accuracy, (3) qualified labor 
demand, (4) sample volume, and (5) life expectancy. Commercial sensors provide 
single-point information with high reliability but at a high acquisition cost, 
while low-cost sensors can be acquired in larger numbers at a lower cost, 
allowing for more detailed spatial and temporal observations, but with medium 
accuracy. The use of SKU sensors is then indicated for short-term and 
limited-budget projects in which high accuracy of the collected data is not 
required.

DOI: 10.3390/s23052451
PMCID: PMC10007478
PMID: 36904655

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


330. Sensors (Basel). 2023 Mar 2;23(5):2748. doi: 10.3390/s23052748.

Interaction with a Virtual Coach for Active and Healthy Ageing.

McTear M(1), Jokinen K(2), Alam MM(3), Saleem Q(3), Napolitano G(3), Szczepaniak 
F(4), Hariz M(4), Chollet G(4), Lohr C(4), Boudy J(4), Azimi Z(5), Roelen SD(5), 
Wieching R(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Computing, Ulster University, Belfast BT15 1AP, UK.
(2)Artificial Intelligence Research Center, National Institute of Advanced 
Industrial Science and Technology (AIRC/AIST), Tokyo 135-0064, Japan.
(3)Institut für Angewandte Informatik (INFAI), 04109 Leipzig, Germany.
(4)Institut Mines-Télécom (IMT), 91120 Palaiseau, France.
(5)Institut für Experimentelle Psychophysiologie Gmbh (IXP), 40215 Düsseldorf, 
Germany.
(6)Chair for Business Information Systems and New Media, Faculty III, 
Universität Siegen (USI), 57068 Siegen, Germany.

Since life expectancy has increased significantly over the past century, society 
is being forced to discover innovative ways to support active aging and elderly 
care. The e-VITA project, which receives funding from both the European Union 
and Japan, is built on a cutting edge method of virtual coaching that focuses on 
the key areas of active and healthy aging. The requirements for the virtual 
coach were ascertained through a process of participatory design in workshops, 
focus groups, and living laboratories in Germany, France, Italy, and Japan. 
Several use cases were then chosen for development utilising the open-source 
Rasa framework. The system uses common representations such as Knowledge Bases 
and Knowledge Graphs to enable the integration of context, subject expertise, 
and multimodal data, and is available in English, German, French, Italian, and 
Japanese.

DOI: 10.3390/s23052748
PMCID: PMC10007549
PMID: 36904957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


331. Adv Gerontol. 2022;35(6):818-826.

[Sarcopenia and type 2 diabetes mellitus in geriatric patients (literature 
review).].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Kurmaev DP(1), Bulgakova SV(1), Treneva EV(1), Chetverikova IS(1), Bashinskaya 
SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Samara State Medical University, 89 Chapaevskaya str., Samara 443099, Russian 
Federation, e-mail: geriatry@mail.ru.

One of the leading geriatric syndromes, which has been included in the 
International Classification of Diseases ICD-10 since 2016, is sarcopenia. 
Sarcopenia is a progressive gener-alized disease accompanied by a loss of 
strength, mass, and skeletal muscle function. This dis-ease can lead to a 
decrease in working capacity, impaired ability to self-service, disability, and 
an increased risk of premature death. Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) plays an 
important role among the chronic non-infectious pathology of elderly and senile 
patients. T2DM is a serious health burden for older people, affecting 
approximately 25% of people over 65 years of age. This percentage is expected to 
rise sharply in the coming decades due to the increase in the life expectancy of 
the population observed in recent years. In addition to microvascular and 
macro-vascular complications, sarcopenia has been described as a new 
complication of diabetes melli-tus in the elderly. T2DM increases the risk of 
developing sarcopenia threefold. It is of interest to consider the mechanisms of 
the relationship between sarcopenia and type 2 diabetes mellitus in geriatric 
patients.

Publisher: Одним из ведущих гериатрических синдромов, включенным в Международную 
классификацию болезней МКБ-10 с 2016 г., является саркопения. Саркопения — 
прогрессирующее генерализованное заболевание, сопровождающееся потерей силы, 
массы и функции скелетной мускулатуры. Это заболевание может приводить к 
снижению трудоспособности, нарушению способности к самообслуживанию, 
инвалидности, увеличению риска преждевременной смерти. Среди хронической 
неинфекционной патологии у пациентов пожилого и старческого возраста важную роль 
играет сахарный диабет 2-го типа (СД2). Он представляет собой серьезное бремя 
для здоровья пожилых людей, поражая примерно 25% людей старше 65 лет. Ожидается, 
что эта доля резко возрастет в следующие десятилетия в связи с увеличением 
продолжительности жизни населения, наблюдаемым в последние годы. Помимо 
микрососудистых и макрососудистых осложнений, саркопения была описана как новое 
осложнение сахарного диабета у пожилых людей. На фоне СД2 риск развития 
саркопении возрастает троекратно. Представляет интерес рассмотрение механизмов 
взаимосвязи саркопении и СД2 у гериатрических пациентов.

PMID: 36905583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Respir Res. 2023 Mar 11;24(1):74. doi: 10.1186/s12931-023-02353-1.

National, subnational and risk attributed burden of chronic respiratory diseases 
in Iran from 1990 to 2019.

Heidari-Foroozan M(#)(1)(2), Aryan A(#)(1)(3), Esfahani Z(1), Shahrbaf MA(3), 
Moghaddam SS(1)(4), Keykhaei M(1)(5), Ghasemi E(1), Rashidi MM(1), Rezaei N(1), 
Ghamari SH(1), Abbasi-Kangevari M(1), Fateh SM(1), Farzi Y(1), Rezaei N(6)(7), 
Larijani B(8).

Author information:
(1)Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Population Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, No. 10, 
Al-E-Ahmad and Chamran Highway Intersectionsection, Tehran, 1411713137, Iran.
(2)Student Research Committee, School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(4)Kiel Institute for the World Economy, Kiel, Germany.
(5)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, The Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(6)Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Population Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, No. 10, 
Al-E-Ahmad and Chamran Highway Intersectionsection, Tehran, 1411713137, Iran. 
n.rezaei81@yahoo.com.
(7)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Clinical Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran. n.rezaei81@yahoo.com.
(8)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Clinical Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Data on the distribution of the burden of diseases is vital for 
policymakers for the appropriate allocation of resources. In this study, we 
report the geographical and time trends of chronic respiratory diseases (CRDs) 
in Iran from 1990 to 2019 based on the Global burden of the Disease (GBD) study 
2019.
METHODS: Data were extracted from the GBD 2019 study to report the burden of 
CRDs through disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), mortality, incidence, 
prevalence, Years of Life lost (YLL), and Years Lost to Disability (YLD). 
Moreover, we reported the burden attributed to the risk factors with evidence of 
causation at national and subnational levels. We also performed a decomposition 
analysis to determine the roots of incidence changes. All data were measured as 
counts and age-standardized rates (ASR) divided by sex and age group.
RESULTS: In 2019, the ASR of deaths, incidence, prevalence, and DALYs attributed 
to CRDs in Iran were 26.9 (23.2 to 29.1), 932.1 (799.7 to 1091.5), 5155.4 
(4567.2 to 5859.6) and 587,911 (521,418 to 661,392) respectively. All burden 
measures were higher in males than females, but in older age groups, CRDs were 
more incident in females than males. While all crude numbers increased, all ASRs 
except for YLDs decreased over the studied period. Population growth was the 
main contributor to the changes in incidence at a national and subnational 
levels. The ASR of mortality in the province (Kerman) with the highest death 
rate (58.54 (29.42 to 68.73) was four times more than the province (Tehran) with 
the lowest death rate (14.52 (11.94 to 17.64)). The risk factors which imposed 
the most DALYs were smoking (216 (189.9 to 240.8)), ambient particulate matter 
pollution (117.9 (88.1 to 149.4)), and high body mass index (BMI) (57 (36.3 to 
81.8)). Smoking was also the main risk factor in all provinces.
CONCLUSION: Despite the overall decrease in ASR of burden measures, the crude 
counts are rising. Moreover, the ASIR of all CRDs except asthma is increasing. 
This suggests that the overall incidence of CRDs will continue to grow in the 
future, which calls for immediate action to reduce exposure to the known risk 
factors. Therefore, expanded national plans by policymakers are essential to 
prevent the economic and human burden of CRDs.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12931-023-02353-1
PMCID: PMC10006557
PMID: 36906596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.


333. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2023 Jun;48(7):981-990. doi: 
10.1038/s41386-023-01555-x. Epub 2023 Mar 11.

Shared genetic architecture between attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and 
lifespan.

Vilar-Ribó L(#)(1)(2)(3), Cabana-Domínguez J(#)(1)(2)(3), Martorell L(3)(4), 
Ramos-Quiroga JA(1)(2)(3)(5), Sanchez-Roige S(6)(7), Palmer AA(6)(7), Vilella 
E(3)(4), Ribasés M(1)(2)(3)(8), Muntané G(#)(9)(10)(11), Soler Artigas 
M(#)(12)(13)(14)(15).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatric Genetics Unit, Group of Psychiatry, Mental Health and Addiction, 
Vall d'Hebron Research Institute (VHIR), Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Department of Mental Health, Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(3)Biomedical Network Research Centre on Mental Health (CIBERSAM), Instituto de 
Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Hospital Universitari Institut Pere Mata, Institut d'Investigació Sanitària 
Pere Virgili (IISPV)-CERCA, Universitat Rovira i Virgili, Reus, Spain.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Forensic Medicine, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 
USA.
(7)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, 
USA.
(8)Department of Genetics, Microbiology, and Statistics, Faculty of Biology, 
Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Biomedical Network Research Centre on Mental Health (CIBERSAM), Instituto de 
Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain. muntaneg@peremata.com.
(10)Hospital Universitari Institut Pere Mata, Institut d'Investigació Sanitària 
Pere Virgili (IISPV)-CERCA, Universitat Rovira i Virgili, Reus, Spain. 
muntaneg@peremata.com.
(11)Institut de Biologia Evolutiva (UPF-CSIC), Department of Medicine and Life 
Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Parc de Recerca Biomèdica de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain. muntaneg@peremata.com.
(12)Psychiatric Genetics Unit, Group of Psychiatry, Mental Health and Addiction, 
Vall d'Hebron Research Institute (VHIR), Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain. maria.soler@vhir.org.
(13)Department of Mental Health, Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Barcelona, 
Spain. maria.soler@vhir.org.
(14)Biomedical Network Research Centre on Mental Health (CIBERSAM), Instituto de 
Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain. maria.soler@vhir.org.
(15)Department of Genetics, Microbiology, and Statistics, Faculty of Biology, 
Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. maria.soler@vhir.org.
(#)Contributed equally

There is evidence linking ADHD to a reduced life expectancy. The mortality rate 
in individuals with ADHD is twice that of the general population and it is 
associated with several factors, such as unhealthy lifestyle behaviors, social 
adversity, and mental health problems that may in turn increase mortality rates. 
Since ADHD and lifespan are heritable, we used data from genome-wide association 
studies (GWAS) of ADHD and parental lifespan, as proxy of individual lifespan, 
to estimate their genetic correlation, identify genetic loci jointly associated 
with both phenotypes and assess causality. We confirmed a negative genetic 
correlation between ADHD and parental lifespan (rg = -0.36, P = 1.41e-16). 
Nineteen independent loci were jointly associated with both ADHD and parental 
lifespan, with most of the alleles that increased the risk for ADHD being 
associated with shorter lifespan. Fifteen loci were novel for ADHD and two were 
already present in the original GWAS on parental lifespan. Mendelian 
randomization analyses pointed towards a negative causal effect of ADHD 
liability on lifespan (P = 1.54e-06; Beta = -0.07), although these results were 
not confirmed by all sensitivity analyses performed, and further evidence is 
required. The present study provides the first evidence of a common genetic 
background between ADHD and lifespan, which may play a role in the reported 
effect of ADHD on premature mortality risk. These results are consistent with 
previous epidemiological data describing reduced lifespan in mental disorders 
and support that ADHD is an important health condition that could negatively 
affect future life outcomes.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41386-023-01555-x
PMCID: PMC10209393
PMID: 36906694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JARQ was on the speakers bureau and/or acted as 
consultant for Janssen-Cilag, Novartis, Shire, Takeda, Bial, Shionogi, 
Sincrolab, Novartis, BMS, Medice, Technofarma, Rubió and Raffo in the last 3 
years. He also received travel awards (air tickets + hotel) for taking part in 
psychiatric meetings from Janssen-Cilag, Rubió, Shire, Takeda, Shionogi, Bial 
and Medice. The Department of Psychiatry Mental Health chaired by him received 
unrestricted educational and research support from the following companies in 
the last 3 years: Janssen- Cilag, Shire, Oryzon, Roche, Psious, and Rubió. AAP 
is on the scientific advisory board, owns stock options and a patent 
(https://patents.google.com/patent/US20160038559A1) for Vivid Genomics 
(https://www.vividgenomics.com/). All other authors declare no competing 
interests.


334. Trends Neurosci. 2023 May;46(5):394-409. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2023.02.002.
Epub  2023 Mar 10.

The common marmoset as a model of neurodegeneration.

Perez-Cruz C(1), Rodriguez-Callejas JD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Center of Research and Advance Studies 
(Cinvestav-I.P.N.), Av. Politecnico Nacional 2508, San Pedro Zacatenco, Gustavo 
A. Madero, 07360, Mexico City, Mexico. Electronic address: cperezc@cinvestav.mx.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Center of Research and Advance Studies 
(Cinvestav-I.P.N.), Av. Politecnico Nacional 2508, San Pedro Zacatenco, Gustavo 
A. Madero, 07360, Mexico City, Mexico.

Human life expectancy has increased over the past few centuries, and the 
incidence of dementia in the older population is also projected to continue to 
rise. Neurodegenerative diseases are complex multifactorial conditions for which 
no effective treatments are currently available. Animal models are necessary to 
understand the causes and progression of neurodegeneration. Nonhuman primates 
(NHPs) offer significant advantages for the study of neurodegenerative disease. 
Among them, the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, stands out due to its easy 
handling, complex brain architecture, and occurrence of spontaneous beta-amyloid 
(Aβ) and phosphorylated tau aggregates with aging. Furthermore, marmosets 
present physiological adaptations and metabolic alterations associated with the 
increased risk of dementia in humans. In this review, we discuss the current 
literature on the use of marmosets as a model of aging and neurodegeneration. We 
highlight aspects of marmoset physiology associated with aging, such as 
metabolic alterations, which may help understand their vulnerability to 
developing a neurodegenerative phenotype that goes beyond normal aging.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2023.02.002
PMID: 36907677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests in relation to this work.


335. Front Public Health. 2023 Feb 24;11:1079248. doi:
10.3389/fpubh.2023.1079248.  eCollection 2023.

The global, regional, and national burden of stomach cancer among adolescents 
and young adults in 204 countries and territories, 1990-2019: A population-based 
study.

Zhang Z(1), Wang J(1), Song N(1), Shi L(1), Du J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.

BACKGROUND: Stomach cancer is a significant health problem in many countries. 
But healthcare needs of adolescents and young adults (AYAs) stomach cancer 
patients have been historically neglected. An accurate appraisal of the burden 
of AYA stomach cancer is crucial to formulating effective preventive strategies. 
In this study, we report the most recent estimates of AYA stomach cancer burden 
concerning socio-demographic index (SDI) in 204 countries and territories 
between 1990 and 2019.
METHODS: Estimates from the Global Burden of Disease study 2019 were used to 
analyze incidence, mortality, and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) due to 
AYA stomach cancer at global, regional, and national levels. Association between 
AYA stomach cancer burden and SDI were investigated. All estimates are reported 
as absolute numbers and age-standardized rates, which were standardized to the 
GBD world population and reported per 100,000 population.
RESULTS: In 2019, there were 49,000 incident cases, 27,895 deaths, and 1.57 
million DALYs due to AYA stomach cancer globally. The highest age-standardized 
incidence rate occurred in East Asia [2.42 (women) and 4.71 (men) per 100,000 
person-years] and high-income Asia Pacific [3.16 (women) and 2.61 (men) per 
100,000 person-years]. Age-standardized death [1.53 (women) and 2.65 (men) per 
100,000 person-years] and DALY [150.96 (women) and 87.13 (men) per 100,000 
person-years] rates were highest in Oceania. Compared with 1990, in 2019 more 
than 1,075 more incident cases of AYA stomach cancer were estimated with a 
decrease of 7,784 deaths. Despite the increase in absolute number of incident 
cases, the worldwide age-standardized rates of AYA stomach cancer (incidence, 
deaths, and DALYs) have declined since 1990. The drop in the disease burden was 
associated with an improved SDI. Globally, 24.41% of the age-standardized DALYs 
were attributable to a high-sodium diet in both sexes combined, and 0.57% of the 
age-standardized DALYs were attributable to smoking in men.
CONCLUSION: The global burden of AYA stomach cancer is substantial, especially 
in developing regions. Capacity-building activities for AYA stomach cancer will 
benefit the younger generation and population health worldwide.

Copyright © 2023 Zhang, Wang, Song, Shi and Du.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1079248
PMCID: PMC9998989
PMID: 36908483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


336. Front Pharmacol. 2023 Feb 23;14:1114304. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2023.1114304. 
eCollection 2023.

The correlation between the costs and clinical benefits of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors 
in malignant tumors: An evaluation based on ASCO and ESMO frameworks.

Lin S(1)(2), Huang Y(1)(2), Dong L(3), Li M(1), Wang Y(1), Gu D(3), Wu W(1)(2), 
Nian D(1)(2), Luo S(1)(2), Huang X(1)(2), Xu X(1)(2), Weng X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou, China.
(2)National Regional Medical Center, Department of Pharmacy, Binhai Campus of 
the First Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
(3)Institute for Health and Aging, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, United States.

Background: Life expectancy for patients with malignant tumors has been 
significantly improved since the presence of the programmed cell death 
protein-1/programmed cell death protein ligand-1 (PD-1/PD-L1) inhibitors in 
2014, but they impose heavy financial burdens for patients, the healthcare 
system and the nations. The objective of this study was to determine the 
survival benefits, toxicities, and monetary of programmed cell death 
protein-1/programmed cell death protein ligand-1 inhibitors and quantify their 
values. Methods: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors 
for malignant tumors were identified and clinical benefits were quantified by 
American Society of Clinical Oncology Value Framework (ASCO-VF) and European 
Society for Medical Oncology Magnitude of Clinical Benefit Scale (ESMO-MCBS). 
The drug price in Micromedex REDBOOK was used to estimate monthly incremental 
drug costs (IDCs) and the correlation between clinical benefits and incremental 
drug costs of experimental and control groups in each randomized controlled 
trial, and the agreement between two frameworks were calculated. Results: Up to 
December 2022, 52 randomized controlled trials were included in the quantitative 
synthesis. All the randomized controlled trials were evaluated by American 
society of clinical oncology value framework, and 26 (50%) met the American 
society of clinical oncology value framework "clinical meaningful value." 49 of 
52 randomized controlled trials were graded by European society for medical 
oncology magnitude of clinical benefit scale, and 30 (61.2%) randomized 
controlled trials achieved European Society for Medical Oncology criteria of 
meaningful value. p-values of Spearman correlation analyses between monthly 
incremental drug costs and American society of clinical oncology value 
framework/European society for medical oncology magnitude of clinical benefit 
scale scores were 0.9695 and 0.3013, respectively. In addition, agreement 
between two framework thresholds was fair (κ = 0.417, p = 0.00354). Conclusion: 
This study suggests that there might be no correlation between the cost and 
clinical benefit of programmed cell death protein-1/programmed cell death 
protein ligand-1 inhibitors in malignancy, and the same results were observed in 
subgroups stratified by drug or indication. The results should be a wake-up call 
for oncologists, pharmaceutical enterprises and policymakers, and meanwhile 
advocate the refining of American Society of Clinical Oncology and European 
Society for Medical Oncology frameworks.

Copyright © 2023 Lin, Huang, Dong, Li, Wang, Gu, Wu, Nian, Luo, Huang, Xu and 
Weng.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2023.1114304
PMCID: PMC9995671
PMID: 36909180

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


337. Campbell Syst Rev. 2022 Jul 7;18(3):e1246. doi: 10.1002/cl2.1246.
eCollection  2022 Sep.

PROTOCOL: The effectiveness of abstinence-based and harm reduction-based 
interventions in reducing problematic substance use in adults who are 
experiencing severe and multiple disadvantage homelessness: A systematic review 
and meta-analysis.

O'Leary C(1), Ralphs R(2), Stevenson J(3), Smith A(1), Harrison J(1), Kiss Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Policy Evaluation and Research Unit Manchester Metropolitan University 
Manchester UK.
(2)Substance Use and Associated Behaviours Research Unit Manchester Metropolitan 
University Manchester UK.
(3)Independent consultant London UK.
(4)ZK Analytics Oxford UK.

BACKGROUND: Homelessness is a major social and public health concern. It is a 
traumatic experience, and can have a devastating effect on those experiencing 
it. People who are homeless often face significant barriers when accessing 
public services, and those experiencing more visible and extreme forms of 
homelessness have often faced adverse childhood events, extreme social 
disadvantage, physical, emotional and sexual abuse, neglect, low self-esteem, 
poor physical and mental health, and much lower life expectancy compared to the 
general population. Problematic substance use is disproportionately high amongst 
people experiencing homelessness, with many using drugs and alcohol to deal with 
the stress of living on the street, to keep warm, or to block out memories of 
previous abuse or trauma. Drug overdose is a major cause of death for people 
experiencing street homelessness. Substance dependency can also create barriers 
to successful transition to stable housing. There is ongoing policy interest in 
the effectiveness of different interventions that aim to stop, reduce or prevent 
problematic substance use, and there is specific interest in the relative 
effectiveness of interventions that adopt harm reduction or abstinence-based 
approaches.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this review is to understand the effectiveness of 
different substance use interventions. The review will consider the 
effectiveness of harm reduction-based interventions, and abstinence-based 
interventions, for adults experiencing homelessness. The focus of the review is 
on high-income countries.
SEARCH METHODS: The primary source of studies for potential inclusion in this 
review is the Homelessness Effectiveness Studies Evidence and Gaps Maps (EGM). 
The first of these was published in 2018, with updates published in 2019 and 
2020. A further update is due to be published in the summer of 2022. It is this 
update that provides the final list of studies from which this review will draw. 
The search for this update (EGM 4th edition) was completed in September 2021. 
Other potential studies will be identified through a call for grey evidence and 
hand-searching key journals.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Eligible studies will be impact evaluations with designs at 
levels, 3, 4 and 5 of the Maryland Scientific Methods scale. This therefore 
includes all studies categorised as either 'Randomised Controlled Trials' or 
'nonexperimental designs with a comparison group' from the studies which form 
the basis of the Homelessness Effectiveness Studies Evidence and Gap Maps (EGM) 
created by CHI and the Campbell Collaboration. We are interested in studies that 
examine the effect of interventions on substance use outcomes. Studies to be 
excluded are those with designs at levels 1 and 2 of the Maryland Scientific 
Methods scale, for example, studies without a control or comparison group, 
'before vs. after' designs (without an untreated comparison group), and 
cross-sectional regressions.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Descriptive characteristics and statistical 
information in included studies will be coded and checked by at least two 
members of the review team. Studies selected for the review will be assessed for 
confidence in the findings using a critical appraisal tool for determining 
confidence in primary studies. Standardised effect sizes will be calculated and, 
if a study does not provide sufficient raw data for the calculation of an effect 
size, we will attempt to contact the author(s) to obtain this data. We will aim 
to use random-effects meta-analysis and robust-variance estimation procedures to 
synthesise effect sizes. If a study includes multiple effects, we will carry out 
a critical assessment to determine (even if only theoretically) whether the 
effects are likely to be dependent. Where we suspect dependent effects, we will 
determine whether we can account for these by robust variance estimation. We 
will explore the moderating influence of participant and study characteristics, 
such as gender, race, substances targeted and length of follow-up. Where effect 
sizes are converted from a binary to continuous measure (or vice versa), we will 
undertake a sensitivity analysis to investigate the effect of the inclusion of 
studies with a converted effect size in the meta-analysis by running an 
additional analysis with these studies omitted. We will also assess the 
sensitivity of results to inclusion of non-randomised studies and studies 
classified as low confidence in findings. All analyses will include an 
assessment of statistical heterogeneity. Finally, we will undertake analysis to 
assess whether publication bias is likely to be a factor in our findings.

© 2022 The Authors. Campbell Systematic Reviews published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd on behalf of The Campbell Collaboration.

DOI: 10.1002/cl2.1246
PMCID: PMC9261927
PMID: 36909874


338. Pol J Radiol. 2023 Feb 9;88:e89-e97. doi: 10.5114/pjr.2023.125027.
eCollection  2023.

Diagnosis and treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis - a comprehensive overview.

Szadkowska MA(1), Pałucki J(1), Cieszanowski A(1).

Author information:
(1)The Maria Sklodowska-Curie National Research Institute of Oncology in Warsaw, 
Poland.

Peritoneal carcinomatosis, which is the most common malignant process of the 
peritoneal cavity, originates mostly from colorectal, gastric, and 
gynaecological malignancies. The differential diagnosis is broad and covers 
primary peritoneal malignancies, as well as many benign disorders such as 
endometriosis, and inflammatory and infectious diseases. Peritoneal implants 
tend to locate in the areas of the physiological stasis of the peritoneal fluid: 
pelvic peritoneal reflections, right and left paracolic gutters, superior part 
of the sigmoid mesocolon, ileocolic area, and the right subdiaphragmatic space. 
The 3 most common imaging findings are ascites, nodular implants, and 
infiltration of the peritoneal fatty tissue. Several imaging modalities may be 
applied in patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis. Ultrasound has low 
sensitivity and specificity, and therefore plays only a marginal role. Computed 
tomography is the method of choice, due to its availability, cost-effectiveness, 
and relatively high sensitivity. The sensitivity of magnetic resonance imaging 
depends on the size of peritoneal implants - in cases of implants larger than 10 
mm is comparable to CT. Some studies suggest that PET/CT may be the most 
sensitive method, yet its usefulness in everyday practice is controversial. The 
Peritoneal Carcinomatosis Index (PCI) is a scale used to assess the tumour 
burden in the peritoneum and may serve as a communication tool between 
clinicians and radiologists. The imaging findings may influence the surgeon's 
decision on performing cytoreductive surgery, which may be followed by 
intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC or EPIC procedures). The introduction of 
these therapeutic methods has significantly improved the life expectancy of 
patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis.

© Pol J Radiol 2023.

DOI: 10.5114/pjr.2023.125027
PMCID: PMC9995246
PMID: 36910885

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


339. Food Sci Nutr. 2022 Jan 18;11(3):1599. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.2737. eCollection
2023  Mar.

Withdrawal: "Shelf-life extension of buffalo meat using Farsi gum edible coating 
containing Shirazi thyme essential oil", by Elnaz Saffari Samani, Hossein 
Jooyandeh, Behrooz Alizadeh Behbahani, Food Science & Nutrition, 2022.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.2737
PMCID: PMC10002970
PMID: 36911840


340. Int J Stroke. 2023 Aug;18(7):795-803. doi: 10.1177/17474930231165607. Epub
2023  Mar 28.

The lifetime burden following stroke: Long term impact of stroke on survival and 
quality of life.

Cheon S(1), Li CY(1)(2)(3), Jeng JS(4), Wang JD(1)(5), Ku LE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Public Health, College of Public Health, China Medical 
University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Healthcare Administration, College of Medical and Health 
Science, Asia University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Neurology, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University Hospital, Tainan, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The absolute burden of stroke in Korea is ever growing. Many studies 
have explored the outcomes of mortality, quality of life (QOL), and/or economic 
burden with limited periods of observation. Relatively few have addressed the 
lifetime outcomes that are estimated beyond the limited observation period of 
study samples.
AIMS: By combining QOL and the survival functions over a lifetime horizon, our 
aims were to estimate the quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) and 
loss-of-QALE of patients with ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke in South Korea, 
and to compare them between genders.
METHODS: The survival function of stroke patients (n = 13,994) was estimated by 
the Kaplan-Meier's method from the National Health Insurance Service-National 
Sample Cohort of Korea (2002-2015), and then extrapolated to lifetime through a 
rolling-over algorithm. The QOL measurements, assessed by EuroQol 5-dimension 
(EQ-5D) questionnaire, of stroke patients (n = 474) were extracted from the 
Korea Health Panel (KHP, 2008-2018) to estimate the QALE. All stroke patients 
were categorized by sex and two types of stroke: ischemic and hemorrhagic. Age-, 
sex-, and calendar year-matched referents were simulated from the Korean life 
tables to be integrated with the general population's QOL from the KHP to 
estimate the QALE of the referents. We calculated the loss-of-QALE by comparing 
the above two sets of QALE.
RESULTS: The QALE and loss-of-QALE for ischemic stroke were 10.8 and 6.1 QALYs 
(quality-adjusted life years), respectively, and 14.0 and 9.0 QALYs for 
hemorrhagic stroke. The loss-of-QALE in men was 3.0 QALYs larger than that of 
women with hemorrhagic stroke (p < 0.05), while the difference for ischemic 
stroke was much smaller and statistically insignificant at 0.6 QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: The lifetime impact of stroke in Korea is large, especially for 
males who survived hemorrhagic stroke. Future studies assessing the lifetime 
needs for long-term care of stroke patients are warranted to quantify the burden 
of stroke from the societal perspective.

DOI: 10.1177/17474930231165607
PMID: 36912208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Swiss Med Wkly. 2023 Mar 3;153(3):40047. doi: 10.57187/smw.2023.40047.

Demographic changes and surgery caseloads for hip arthroplasty over the last 50 
years: a retrospective study.

Felbar D(1), Zdravkovic V(1), Jost B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Kantonsspital St. Gallen, St. 
Gallen, Switzerland.

AIMS OF THE STUDY: Data on the demographic changes over time for hip 
arthroplasty are rare in Switzerland. The aim of the study was to evaluate the 
influence of these changes on the distribution of age, gender, operated hip 
side, place of residence and caseload per surgeon over the last 50 years of hip 
arthroplasty at the Kantonsspital St. Gallen.
METHODS: For this retrospective explorative study, data were collected from the 
operating theatre journals of hip replacements performed at Kantonsspital St. 
Gallen from 1969 to 2019. Every fifth year was included, which resulted in 
5-year sampling rate over the observation period. The journals were handwritten 
until 1999 and digital from 2004 to 2019. The following data were obtained: age, 
sex, type of hip arthroplasty, side of operated hip, place of residence and name 
of main surgeon. Apart from overall descriptive statistics, we applied the 
Mann-Whitney U-test to test for differences in age and the binomial test for 
categorical variables. A linear regression model was applied to investigate the 
relationship between patients' ages and historical data of life expectancy of 
the Swiss population.
RESULTS: We included 2,963 patients, of whom 1,318 were men (median age = 67 
yr., p25 = 59 yr., p75 = 74 yr.) and 1,608 women (median age = 72 yr., p25 = 63 
yr., p75 = 79 yr.). Overall, women were significantly older than men, 
irrespective of whether they received primary total hip arthroplasty (median age 
= 70 yr. vs 66 yr., p25 = 61 yr. vs 58 yr., p75 = 77 yr. vs 73 yr., p <0.001), 
hemiarthroplasty (median age = 84 yr. vs 78.5 yr., p25 = 78 yr. vs 71 yr., p75 = 
89 yr. vs 85 yr., p <0.001) or total revision arthroplasty (median age = 71 yr. 
vs 70 yr., p25 = 64.25 yr. vs 63 yr., p75 = 78 yr. vs 75 yr., p = 0.036). A 
trend toward rising median age is evident looking at the whole period observed 
from 1969 to 2019. Except for women in the total revision arthroplasty group (r 
= 0.226), a high correlation between increasing median age of patients 
undergoing hip replacement and life expectancy was found (r ≥0.663). 
Significantly more primary total hip prostheses (p = 0.003) and hip 
hemiprostheses (p <0.001) were implanted in women than in men between 1969 and 
2019. Overall, no significant difference in side distribution was seen in the 
primary total hip arthroplasty (p = 0.061), total revision arthroplasty (p = 
1.000) and hemiarthroplasty (p = 0.365) group. In contrast to earlier years, 
most patients in recent years are operated on by high-volume surgeons (>50 
operations per surgeon per year).
CONCLUSIONS: Demographic changes of patients undergoing total hip replacement 
reflect the overall demographic changes in the Swiss population. Over the last 
50 years the indication for prosthetic hip replacements has not been extended to 
younger ages. The caseload in hip arthroplasty has changed over the last 50 
years towards high-volume surgeons.

DOI: 10.57187/smw.2023.40047
PMID: 36912386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. J Dermatolog Treat. 2023 Dec;34(1):2190430. doi:
10.1080/09546634.2023.2190430.

Maintained improvement in physician- and patient-reported outcomes with 
baricitinib in adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis who were treated 
for up to 104 weeks in a randomized trial.

Thyssen JP(1), Werfel T(2), Barbarot S(3), Hunter HJA(4), Pierce E(5), Sun L(5), 
Cirri L(5), Buchanan AS(5), Lu N(6), Wollenberg A(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Venersology, Bispebjerg Hospital, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(2)Division of Immunodermatology and Allergy Research, Department of Dermatology 
and Allergy, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Nantes Université, Centre Hospitalier 
Universitaire de Nantes, Nantes, France.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Salford Care Organisation, part of the Northern 
