Carlton, VIC, Australia.

Erratum in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2023 May 17;:

BACKGROUND: Long COVID symptoms occur for a proportion of acute COVID-19 
survivors, with reduced risk among the vaccinated and for Omicron compared with 
Delta variant infections. The health loss attributed to pre-Omicron long COVID 
has previously been estimated using only a few major symptoms.
METHODS: The years lived with disability (YLDs) due to long COVID in Australia 
during the 2021-22 Omicron BA.1/BA.2 wave were calculated using inputs from 
previously published case-control, cross-sectional or cohort studies examining 
the prevalence and duration of individual long COVID symptoms. This estimated 
health loss was compared with acute SARS-CoV-2 infection YLDs and years of life 
lost (YLLs) from SARS-CoV-2. The sum of these three components equals COVID-19 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs); this was compared with DALYs from other 
diseases.
RESULTS: A total of 5200 [95% uncertainty interval (UI) 2200-8300] YLDs were 
attributable to long COVID and 1800 (95% UI 1100-2600) to acute SARS-CoV-2 
infection, suggesting long COVID caused 74% of the overall YLDs from SARS-CoV-2 
infections in the BA.1/BA.2 wave. Total DALYs attributable to SARS-CoV-2 were 50 
900 (95% UI 21 000-80 900), 2.4% of expected DALYs for all diseases in the same 
period.
CONCLUSION: This study provides a comprehensive approach to estimating the 
morbidity due to long COVID. Improved data on long COVID symptoms will improve 
the accuracy of these estimates. As data accumulate on SARS-CoV-2 infection 
sequelae (e.g. increased cardiovascular disease rates), total health loss is 
likely to be higher than estimated in this study. Nevertheless, this study 
demonstrates that long COVID requires consideration in pandemic policy planning, 
given it is responsible for the majority of direct SARS-CoV-2 morbidity, 
including during an Omicron wave in a highly vaccinated population.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
International Epidemiological Association.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyad033
PMCID: PMC10244043
PMID: 37011639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The Population Interventions Unit is expected to 
receive funding from Moderna Inc. to conduct research on COVID-19 vaccine 
effectiveness in Victoria, Australia. No other conflicts of interest are 
declared.


665. Exp Gerontol. 2023 Jun 1;176:112164. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2023.112164. Epub
2023  Apr 7.

Effects of an inulin fiber diet on the gut microbiome, colon, and inflammatory 
biomarkers in aged mice.

Hutchinson NT(1), Wang SS(2), Rund LA(3), Caetano-Silva ME(3), Allen JM(4), 
Johnson RW(5), Woods JA(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nutritional Sciences, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 
United States of America.
(2)Department of Kinesiology and Community Health, University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign, United States of America.
(3)Department of Animal Sciences, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 
United States of America.
(4)Division of Nutritional Sciences, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 
United States of America; Department of Kinesiology and Community Health, 
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, United States of America.
(5)Division of Nutritional Sciences, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 
United States of America; Department of Animal Sciences, University of Illinois 
at Urbana-Champaign, United States of America.
(6)Division of Nutritional Sciences, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 
United States of America; Department of Kinesiology and Community Health, 
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, United States of America. Electronic 
address: Woods1@illinois.edu.

Due to the increasing human life expectancy and limited supply of healthcare 
resources, strategies to promote healthy aging and reduce associated functional 
deficits are of public health importance. The gut microbiota, which remodels 
with age, has been identified as a significant contributor to the aging process 
that is modifiable by diet. Since prebiotic dietary components such as inulin 
have been shown to impart positive benefits with regards to aging, this study 
used C57Bl6 mice to investigate whether 8 weeks on a 2.5 % inulin enhanced 
AIN-93M 1 % cellulose diet could offset age-associated changes in gut microbiome 
composition and markers of colon health and systemic inflammation in comparison 
to a AIN 93M 1 % cellulose diet with 0 % inulin. Our results demonstrated that, 
in both age groups, dietary inulin significantly increased production of 
butyrate in the cecum and induced changes in the community structure of the gut 
microbiome but did not significantly affect systemic inflammation or other 
markers of gastrointestinal health. Aged mice had different and less diverse 
microbiomes when compared to adult mice and were less sensitive to 
inulin-induced microbiome community shifts, evidenced by longitudinal 
differences in differentially abundant taxa and beta diversity. In aged mice, 
inulin restored potentially beneficial taxa including Bifidobacterium and key 
butyrate producing genera (e.g. Faecalibaculum). Despite inducing notable 
taxonomic changes, however, the 2.5 % inulin diet reduced alpha diversity in 
both age groups and failed to reduce overall community compositional differences 
between age groups. In conclusion, a 2.5 % inulin enhanced diet altered gut 
microbiome α and β diversity, composition, and butyrate production in both adult 
and aged mice, with more potent effects on β diversity and greater number of 
taxa significantly altered in adult mice. However, significant benefits in 
age-associated changes in systemic inflammation or intestinal outcomes were not 
detected.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2023.112164
PMCID: PMC10159939
PMID: 37011713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. BMJ Open. 2023 Apr 3;13(4):e069915. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-069915.

Statins for extension of disability-free survival and primary prevention of 
cardiovascular events among older people: protocol for a randomised controlled 
trial in primary care (STAREE trial).

Zoungas S(1), Curtis A(2), Spark S(2), Wolfe R(2), McNeil JJ(2), Beilin L(3), 
Chong TT(4)(5), Cloud G(5)(6), Hopper I(2)(7), Kost A(2), Nelson M(8), Nicholls 
SJ(2)(9), Reid CM(2)(10), Ryan J(2), Tonkin A(2), Ward SA(2)(11), Wierzbicki 
A(12); STAREE investigator group.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia sophia.zoungas@monash.edu.
(2)School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(3)School of Medicine, University of Western Australia, Perth, Western 
Australia, Australia.
(4)Turner Institute for Brain and Mental Health, Monash University, Clayton, 
Victoria, Australia.
(5)Department of Neurology, Alfred Health, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(7)Department of Cardiology and General Medicine Unit, Alfred Health, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.
(8)Menzies Research Institute, University of Tasmania, Hobart, Tasmania, 
Australia.
(9)Victorian Heart Institute, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(10)School of Public Health, Curtin University, Bentley, Western Australia, 
Australia.
(11)Centre for Healthy Brain Ageing, School of Psychiatry, University of New 
South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(12)Metabolic Medicine/Chemical Pathology, Guy's and St Thomas' Hospitals, 
London, UK.

INTRODUCTION: The world is undergoing a demographic transition to an older 
population. Preventive healthcare has reduced the burden of chronic illness at 
younger ages but there is limited evidence that these advances can improve 
health at older ages. Statins are one class of drug with the potential to 
prevent or delay the onset of several causes of incapacity in older age, 
particularly major cardiovascular disease (CVD). This paper presents the 
protocol for the STAtins in Reducing Events in the Elderly (STAREE) trial, a 
randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trial examining the effects of 
statins in community dwelling older people without CVD, diabetes or dementia.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We will conduct a double-blind, randomised 
placebo-controlled trial among people aged 70 years and over, recruited through 
Australian general practice and with no history of clinical CVD, diabetes or 
dementia. Participants will be randomly assigned to oral atorvastatin (40 mg 
daily) or matching placebo (1:1 ratio). The co-primary endpoints are 
disability-free survival defined as survival-free of dementia and persistent 
physical disability, and major cardiovascular events (cardiovascular death or 
non-fatal myocardial infarction or stroke). Secondary endpoints are all-cause 
death, dementia and other cognitive decline, persistent physical disability, 
fatal and non-fatal myocardial infarction, fatal and non-fatal stroke, heart 
failure, atrial fibrillation, fatal and non-fatal cancer, all-cause 
hospitalisation, need for permanent residential care and quality of life. 
Comparisons between assigned treatment arms will be on an intention-to-treat 
basis with each of the co-primary endpoints analysed separately in 
time-to-first-event analyses using Cox proportional hazards regression models.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: STAREE will address uncertainties about the preventive 
effects of statins on a range of clinical outcomes important to older people. 
Institutional ethics approval has been obtained. All research outputs will be 
disseminated to general practitioner co-investigators and participants, 
published in peer-reviewed journals and presented at national and international 
conferences.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02099123.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-069915
PMCID: PMC10083753
PMID: 37012015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: SZ has received NHMRC and 
Australian Heart Foundation research funding as the principal investigator of 
the STAREE trial; and payment to the institution (Monash University) from Amgen 
Australia, AstraZeneca, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Eli Lilly Australia, Merck Sharp & 
Dohme Australia, Novo Nordisk, Sanofi and Servier for consultancy work outside 
the submitted work. IH has received research funding from NHMRC and Royal 
Australasian College of Physicians and honoraria for lectures or advisory board 
participation from Boehringer Ingelheim, Vifor and Eli Lilly. JJM is supported 
by an NHMRC Leadership Fellowship (IG1173690). MN has served on a Novartis 
advisory board on lipid management in 2020. CMR is supported through an NHMRC 
Principal Research Fellowship (APP 1136372). SJN has received research support 
from AstraZeneca, New Amsterdam Pharma, Amgen, Anthera, Eli Lilly, Esperion, 
Novartis, Cerenis, The Medicines Company, Resverlogix, InfraReDx, Roche, 
Sanofi-Regeneron and LipoScience and is a consultant for AstraZeneca, Amarin, 
Akcea, Eli Lilly, Anthera, Omthera, Merck, Takeda, Resverlogix, 
Sanofi-Regeneron, CSL Behring, Esperion, Boehringer Ingelheim and Vaxxinity. 
TT-JC has received honoraria for lectures from Roche. AW has been a clinical 
trial investigator for Akcea, Amgen, Regeneron and Silence Therapeutics. He has 
served as a guideline chair and done consultancy work for the National Institute 
of Health and Care Excellence in the UK. AT has received research support or 
honoraria for lectures, advisory board or data monitoring committee 
participation from Amgen, The Medicines Group, Merck, Novartis and Pfizer. SAW 
has received payment to attend an advisory meeting on dementia for Roche.


667. J Histochem Cytochem. 2023 Apr;71(4):199-209. doi:
10.1369/00221554231165326.  Epub 2023 Apr 3.

Betaine Treatment Prevents TNF-α-Mediated Muscle Atrophy by Restoring Total 
Protein Synthesis Rate and Morphology in Cultured Myotubes.

Di Credico A(1)(2), Gaggi G(1)(2), Izzicupo P(1), Vitucci D(3)(4), Buono 
P(3)(4), Di Baldassarre A(1)(2), Ghinassi B(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Aging Sciences, "G. D'Annunzio" University of 
Chieti-Pescara, Chieti, Italy.
(2)Reprogramming and Cell Differentiation Lab, Center for Advanced Studies and 
Technology, Chieti, Italy.
(3)Department of Movement Sciences and Wellness, University Parthenope, Napoli, 
Italy.
(4)CEINGE-Biotecnologie Avanzate Franco Salvatore, Napoli, Italy.

Skeletal muscle atrophy is represented by a dramatic decrease in muscle mass, 
and it is related to a lower life expectancy. Among the different causes, 
chronic inflammation and cancer promote protein loss through the effect of 
inflammatory cytokines, leading to muscle shrinkage. Thus, the availability of 
safe methods to counteract inflammation-derived atrophy is of high interest. 
Betaine is a methyl derivate of glycine and it is an important methyl group 
donor in transmethylation. Recently, some studies found that betaine could 
promote muscle growth, and it is also involved in anti-inflammatory mechanisms. 
Our hypothesis was that betaine would be able to prevent tumor necrosis factor-α 
(TNF-α)-mediated muscle atrophy in vitro. We treated differentiated C2C12 
myotubes for 72 hr with either TNF-α, betaine, or a combination of them. After 
the treatment, we analyzed total protein synthesis, gene expression, and myotube 
morphology. Betaine treatment blunted the decrease in muscle protein synthesis 
rate exerted by TNF-α, and upregulated Mhy1 gene expression in both control and 
myotube treated with TNF-α. In addition, morphological analysis revealed that 
myotubes treated with both betaine and TNF-α did not show morphological features 
of TNF-α-mediated atrophy. We demonstrated that in vitro betaine supplementation 
counteracts the muscle atrophy led by inflammatory cytokines.

DOI: 10.1369/00221554231165326
PMCID: PMC10149894
PMID: 37013268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


668. J Pak Med Assoc. 2022 Nov;72(11):2337-2338. doi: 10.47391/JPMA.22-110.

Sarcopenic Obesity: Anthropometric Diagnosis.

Kalra S(1), Agrawal N(2), Kapoor N(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Bharti Hospital & BRIDE, Karnal, India.
(2)Department of Diabetology, DNA Sugar Clinic, Gwalior, India.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Christian Medical 
College & Hospital, Vellore, India.

A recent increase in the prevalence of obesity has been noticed in individuals 
of all age groups. With an increase in life expectancy, more elderly people are 
affected with obesity 'This is often associated with low muscle mass. This 
entity called as sarcopenic obesity is known to be associated with a significant 
higher morbidity and mortality. However, due to complex definitions and 
techniques used to define sarcopenic obesity, it is often under diagnosed in 
clinical practice. In this manuscript we propose simple, cost effective and easy 
to use anthropometric indices based on standard south Asian cutoffs that could 
help in screening and diagnosis of Sarcopenic obesity.

DOI: 10.47391/JPMA.22-110
PMID: 37013320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Policy Polit Nurs Pract. 2023 Aug;24(3):208-218. doi:
10.1177/15271544231164323.  Epub 2023 Apr 3.

Opioid Misuse and Opioid Overdose Mortality Among the Black Population in the 
United States: An Integrative Review.

Kyei EF(1), Leveille S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Manning College of Nursing and Health Sciences, 
University of Massachusetts Boston, MA, USA.

Opioid misuse is a growing public health concern in the United States (U.S.). 
This problem continues to claim many lives and has affected the life expectancy 
of the U.S. population. In the past few years, the Black population has 
witnessed an increased rate of overdose deaths compared to their white 
counterparts. This review seeks to characterize recent trends in opioid 
prescription practices and overdose deaths among the Black population in the 
U.S. An integrative review was conducted with a literature search from CINHAL, 
MEDLINE, and PsycINFO databases. The literature search identified 11 articles 
for the analysis. All studies were quantitative. Six studies focused on overdose 
mortality and five on opioid prescription practices. The results indicate a 
rising trend in opioid overdose mortality among Black people due to the 
availability of synthetic opioids on the illegal drug market. Black people 
receive fewer opioid prescriptions and experience higher rates of opioid dose 
reduction compared to Whites. The Black population has experienced an increase 
in opioid overdose mortality compared to the White population within the last 
two decades. Opioid overdose deaths among Black people are highly associated 
with the proliferation of synthetic opioids, and Black men have been more 
affected than Black women. Black people experience lower rates of opioid 
prescription during E.R. visits compared to Whites. The issue of low opioid 
prescribing among Black people needs to be addressed since it affects their 
health outcomes and is a factor that contributes to the use of illicit synthetic 
opioids.

DOI: 10.1177/15271544231164323
PMID: 37013355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Urol J. 2023 Apr 3. doi: 10.22037/uj.v20i.7448. Online ahead of print.

A Cohort Study Comparison of Early Inguinal Lymph Node Dissection and 
Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy in Penile Cancer Patient with Bulky Nodal Metastasis: A 
Cohort Study.

Warli SM(1), Ginting JT(2), Sihombing B(3), Siregar GP(3), Prapiska FF(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas 
Sumatera Utara - Haji Adam Malik General Hospital. warli@usu.ac.id.
(2)Department of Urology, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Indonesia - Haji Adam 
Malik General Hospital, Indonesia . Jthompson.ginting@gmail.com.
(3)Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas 
Sumatera Utara - Haji Adam Malik General Hospital, Indonesia.

INTRODUCTION: Penile cancer is a rare malignancy, where extranodal extension in 
inguinal or pelvic lymph nodes is associated with decreased 5-year 
cancer-survival rate in this study, we try to assess survival and quality of 
life in a penile cancer patient with bulky lymph node.
METHOD: We retrospectively reviewed data from penile cancer patients with bulky 
lymph nodes who underwent treatment between July 2016 and July 2021 at tertiary 
referral hospital care. The inclusion criteria (age >18 yr, histologically 
proven penile cancer, and completion of last treatment 6 months prior to this 
study) yielded a cohort of 20 eligible penile cancer patients with bulky lymph 
nodes (> 4 cm/bilateral mobile/unilateral fixed). Only patients who had 
completed therapy at least 6 months prior to the study were included. After 
obtaining consent, they were asked to complete the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire 
to evaluate the patient quality of life.
RESULTS: Out of 20 patients, 5 patients underwent direct ILND and 15 patients 
underwent chemotherapy. Median follow-up after primary diagnosis was 114+32 
months in patient with early ILND and 52+11 months in patients who underwent 
delayed lymph node dissection. Out of 5 patients underwent early ILND, all of 
them survived during follow-up, and achieve cancer-free status without residual 
tumor and with excellent functional outcome (Karnofsky 90). There is no 
significant difference in social function (p value = 0.551), physical function 
(p value = 0.272), role function (p value = 0.546), emotional function (p value 
= 0.551), cognitive function (p value = 0.453), and global health status (p 
value = 0.893) between patient which treated with early ILND and Neoadjuvant 
Chemotherapy. However, patient who underwent early ILND showed a relatively 
better clinical outcome.
CONCLUSION: Early ILND followed by adjuvant chemotherapy for penile cancer with 
palpable lymph nodes is more favourable than neoadjuvant TIP chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.22037/uj.v20i.7448
PMID: 37013859


671. Int J Epidemiol. 2023 Aug 2;52(4):1112-1123. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyad039.

Life expectancy among patients with pulmonary tuberculosis is less than 
one-third of life expectancy in the background population in Guinea-Bissau-an 
observational study.

Bohlbro AS(1)(2)(3), Hønge BL(1)(2), Engell-Sørensen T(2), Mendes AM(1), Sifna 
A(1), Gomes V(1), Rudolf F(1)(2), Wejse C(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Bandim Health Project, INDEPTH Network, Apartado 861, Bissau, Guinea-Bissau.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, 
Denmark.
(3)Center for Global Health, Department of Public Health, Aarhus University, 
Aarhus, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Few studies have assessed life expectancy of patients with 
tuberculosis (TB) against a comparable background population, particularly in 
low-income, high-incidence settings. This study aimed to estimate the life 
expectancy (LE) of patients with TB in the West African country of Guinea-Bissau 
and compare it with the LE of the background population.
METHODS: This study used data from the Bandim TB cohort from 2004-20 as well as 
census data from the capital of Guinea-Bissau. LE was estimated using a 
bootstrapped Kaplan-Meier survival analysis for patients with TB and the 
background population, stratifying by age of entry and various patient 
subgroups. The analysis was further stratified by diagnosis period and length of 
schooling (an indicator of socioeconomic status), to assess their influence on 
LE. A sensitivity analysis was performed assuming death at loss to follow-up.
RESULTS: The analysis included 2278 patients and a background population of 
169 760 individuals. Overall median LE among 30-year-old patients with TB was 
10.7 years (95% CI: 8.7-12.6), compared with 35.8 (95% CI: 35.1-36.5) in the 
background population. LE was shorter in HIV-infected patients and those who had 
unsuccessful treatment outcome; however, even among those who were both 
uninfected with HIV and experienced successful treatment outcome, LE was 20% 
shorter than in the background population. Longer schooling appeared to decrease 
mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: TB substantially shortens LE. This effect is present even in 
patients who are uninfected with HIV and who have successful treatment outcome.

© The Author(s) 2023; all rights reserved. Published by Oxford University Press 
on behalf of the International Epidemiological Association.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyad039
PMID: 37015100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Neurology. 2023 May 23;100(21):e2141-e2154. doi:
10.1212/WNL.0000000000207218.  Epub 2023 Apr 4.

Burden of Common Neurologic Diseases in Asian Countries, 1990-2019: An Analysis 
for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

Wang Y(1), Liang J(2), Fang Y(2), Yao D(2), Zhang L(2), Zhou Y(2), Wang Y(1), Hu 
L(1), Lu Z(2), Wang Y(1), Xiao Z(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Neurology (Yue Wang, J.L., Y.F., L.Z., Y.Z., Yajuan 
Wang, L.H., Z.L., Z.X.), Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University; Department of 
Neurology (D.Y., Yilong Wang), Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medical 
University; Chinese Institute for Brain Research (Yilong Wang); China National 
Clinical Research Center for Neurological Diseases (Yilong Wang); Advanced 
Innovation Center for Human Brain Protection (Yilong Wang), Capital Medical 
University, Beijing; and Beijing Key Laboratory of Translational Medicine for 
Cerebrovascular Disease (Yilong Wang), China. zmxiao@whu.edu.cn 
ylongwang@126.com.
(2)From the Department of Neurology (Yue Wang, J.L., Y.F., L.Z., Y.Z., Yajuan 
Wang, L.H., Z.L., Z.X.), Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University; Department of 
Neurology (D.Y., Yilong Wang), Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medical 
University; Chinese Institute for Brain Research (Yilong Wang); China National 
Clinical Research Center for Neurological Diseases (Yilong Wang); Advanced 
Innovation Center for Human Brain Protection (Yilong Wang), Capital Medical 
University, Beijing; and Beijing Key Laboratory of Translational Medicine for 
Cerebrovascular Disease (Yilong Wang), China.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2023 May 23;100(21):989-990.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Based on the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and 
Risk Factors (GBD) study, neurologic disorders are a major cause of morbidity 
and mortality worldwide. However, there has been no comprehensive assessment of 
neurologic disorders in Asia. Data from the GBD 1990-2019 study were 
investigated to provide new details for neurologic disorders in Asia.
METHODS: The burden of common neurologic disorders in Asia was calculated for 
1990 and 2019 as incidence, prevalence, deaths, and disability-adjusted 
life-years (DALYs). Thirteen common neurologic disorders were analyzed. Data are 
presented as totals and by sex, age, year, location, risk factors, and 
sociodemographic index (SDI) and shown as counts and rates.
RESULTS: In 2019, the most burdensome neurologic disorders in Asia for the 
absolute number of DALYs were stroke (98.8 million, 95% uncertainty interval 
[UI] 91.0-107.0), migraine (24.6 million, 95% UI 3.4-56.4), and Alzheimer 
disease (AD) and other dementias (13.5 million, 95% UI 5.9-29.8). From 1990 to 
2019, the absolute number of DALYs and deaths caused by combined neurologic 
disorders (deaths by 60.7% and DALYs by 17.6%) increased, but the 
age-standardized rates (deaths by 34.1% and DALYs by 36.3%) decreased. The 
burden of neurologic disorders peaked among individuals aged 65-74 years and was 
higher among male than among female individuals; moreover, this burden varied 
considerably across Asian subregions and countries. Risk-attributable DALYs 
accounted for 86.9%, 28.5%, and 11.1% of DALYs for stroke, AD and other 
dementias, and multiple sclerosis, respectively. SDI was associated with both 
stroke and communicable neurological disorders. In terms of crude rate, the 
higher the SDI value, the higher the prevalence of stroke, and the lower all 
metrics of communicable neurological disorders.
DISCUSSION: Neurologic disorders were the leading cause of DALYs and the second 
leading cause of deaths in Asia in 2019, and the burden may likely increase with 
the growth and aging of the Asian population. Urgent measures are needed for 
prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, and support services for common 
neurologic disorders regionally and nationally.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on 
behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000207218
PMCID: PMC10238164
PMID: 37015823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Yue Wang reports no disclosures relevant to the 
manuscript. J. Liang was supported by grants from the Natural Science Foundation 
of Hubei Province (No. 2020CFB226). Y. Fang, D. Yao, L. Zhang, Y. Zhou, Yajuan 
Wang, L. Hu, and Z. Lu report no disclosures relevant to the manuscript. Yilong 
Wang was supported by grants from the National Natural Science Foundation of 
China (No. 81825007), the National Natural Science Foundation Beijing 
Outstanding Young Scientist Program (No. BJJWZYJH01201910025030), Youth Beijing 
Scholar Program (No.010), Beijing Talent Project-Class A: Innovation and 
Development (No. 2018A12), “National Ten-Thousand Talent Plan”-Leadership of 
Scientific and Technological Innovation; and National Key R&D Program of China 
(No. 2017YFC1307900, 2017YFC1307905). Z. Xiao was supported by grants from the 
National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 81971055, 81471133, 82101292), 
the Interdisciplinary Innovative Talents Foundation from Renmin Hospital of 
Wuhan University (JCRCYG-2022-006) and Buchang Zhiyuan Public Welfare Projects 
for Heart and Brain Health (HIGHER2022094). Go to Neurology.org/N for full 
disclosures.


673. BMC Public Health. 2023 Apr 5;23(1):650. doi: 10.1186/s12889-023-15502-4.

Levels, trends, and determinants of cause-of-death diversity in a global 
perspective: 1990-2019.

Calazans JA(1), Permanyer I(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Demographic Studies, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 
Bellaterra, Spain.
(2)Centre for Demographic Studies, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 
Bellaterra, Spain. ipermanyer@ced.uab.es.
(3)ICREA- Institució Catalana de Recerca I Estudis Avançats, Barcelona, Spain. 
ipermanyer@ced.uab.es.

BACKGROUND: While much is known about the leading causes of death (CoD) and how 
they have evolved over time, much less is known about the diversity of such 
causes of death. CoD diversity is an important marker of population health 
heterogeneity that has been largely overlooked in the study of contemporary 
health dynamics.
METHODS: We provide regional and national estimates of CoD diversity from 1990 
to 2019. We rely on data from the Global Burden of Disease project, using 
information on 21 CoD. Results are presented for 204 countries and territories, 
for women and men separately. CoD diversity is measured with the index of 
Fractionalization. Results are disaggregated by age and cause of death.
RESULTS: CoD diversity has declined across world regions, except for Latin 
America and the Caribbean, the region of High-income countries and women in 
Central Europe, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia. Changes in mortality at adult 
and older ages have been mostly responsible for CoD diversity dynamics, except 
for the regions of South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa, where infant and child 
mortality still play a non-negligible role. The relationship between CoD 
diversity, life expectancy, and lifespan inequality is strongly non-monotonic, 
with turning points differing by sex and indicator. Among longevity vanguard 
countries, further increases in life expectancy are associated with decreasing 
lifespan inequality but increasing CoD diversity.
CONCLUSION: As mortality declines, there is no universal pathway toward low CoD 
diversity, thus casting doubts on the ability of Epidemiological Transition 
Theory to predict prospective CoD dynamics among high- and middle-mortality 
countries. Despite the postponement and increasing predictability of the ages at 
which individuals die, low-mortality populations are composed of an increasingly 
heterogenous mix of robust and frail individuals, thus increasing the diversity 
of health profiles among older persons - an issue that could potentially 
complicate further improvements in longevity.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-023-15502-4
PMCID: PMC10072917
PMID: 37016370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


674. Biotechnol Biofuels Bioprod. 2023 Apr 4;16(1):61. doi: 
10.1186/s13068-023-02307-1.

Biochemical and structural characterisation of a family GH5 cellulase from 
endosymbiont of shipworm P. megotara.

Junghare M(1), Manavalan T(2), Fredriksen L(2), Leiros I(3), Altermark B(3), 
Eijsink VGH(2), Vaaje-Kolstad G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food Science, Norwegian University 
of Life Sciences, 1432, Ås, Norway. madan.junghare@nmbu.no.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food Science, Norwegian University 
of Life Sciences, 1432, Ås, Norway.
(3)The Norwegian Structural Biology Centre, Department of Chemistry, The Arctic 
University of Norway, 9037, Tromsø, Norway.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food Science, Norwegian University 
of Life Sciences, 1432, Ås, Norway. gustav.vaaje-kolstad@nmbu.no.

BACKGROUND: Cellulases play a key role in the enzymatic conversion of plant 
cell-wall polysaccharides into simple and economically relevant sugars. Thus, 
the discovery of novel cellulases from exotic biological niches is of great 
interest as they may present properties that are valuable in the biorefining of 
lignocellulosic biomass.
RESULTS: We have characterized a glycoside hydrolase 5 (GH5) domain of a 
bi-catalytic GH5-GH6 multi-domain enzyme from the unusual gill endosymbiont 
Teredinibacter waterburyi of the wood-digesting shipworm Psiloteredo megotara. 
The catalytic GH5 domain, was cloned and recombinantly produced with or without 
a C-terminal family 10 carbohydrate-binding module (CBM). Both variants showed 
hydrolytic endo-activity on soluble substrates such as β-glucan, 
carboxymethylcellulose and konjac glucomannan, respectively. However, low 
activity was observed towards the crystalline form of cellulose. Interestingly, 
when co-incubated with a cellulose-active LPMO, a clear synergy was observed 
that boosted the overall hydrolysis of crystalline cellulose. The crystal 
structure of the GH5 catalytic domain was solved to 1.0 Å resolution and 
revealed a substrate binding cleft extension containing a putative + 3 subsite, 
which is uncommon in this enzyme family. The enzyme was active in a wide range 
of pH, temperatures and showed high tolerance for NaCl.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides significant knowledge in the discovery of new 
enzymes from shipworm gill endosymbionts and sheds new light on biochemical and 
structural characterization of cellulolytic cellulase. Study demonstrated a 
boost in the hydrolytic activity of cellulase on crystalline cellulose when 
co-incubated with cellulose-active LPMO. These findings will be relevant for the 
development of future enzyme cocktails that may be useful for the 
biotechnological conversion of lignocellulose.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13068-023-02307-1
PMCID: PMC10071621
PMID: 37016457

Conflict of interest statement: Not applicable.


675. Psychiatr Serv. 2023 Oct 1;74(10):1077-1080. doi: 10.1176/appi.ps.20220428.
Epub  2023 Apr 5.

One-Year All-Cause Mortality and Delivery of the Collaborative Chronic Care 
Model in General Mental Health Clinics.

Ruderman MA(1), Byers AL(1), Bauer MS(1), Stolzmann K(1), Miller CJ(1), Connolly 
SL(1), Kim B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of California, 
San Francisco, and San Francisco U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Health 
Care, San Francisco (Ruderman, Byers); Center for Healthcare Organization and 
Implementation Research, VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston (Bauer, Stolzmann, 
Miller, Connolly, Kim); Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston 
(Bauer, Miller, Connolly, Kim).

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to determine whether the evidence-based 
collaborative chronic care model (CCM) is associated with reduced all-cause 
mortality among adult patients treated in general mental health clinics.
METHODS: Data came from a stepped-wedge, cluster-randomized CCM implementation 
trial across nine U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers. Survival 
analysis was used to estimate the relative effect of the treatment (N=5,570) 
compared with a control group (N=46,443) over 1 year.
RESULTS: After adjustment for site-level and individual-level acute care 
utilization factors, analyses indicated that patients treated with the CCM 
experienced a reduction in all-cause mortality relative to patients in the 
control cohort (hazard ratio=0.76, 95% CI=0.60-0.95).
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first in which CCM has been shown to reduce 
all-cause mortality for patients treated in general mental health clinics. Care 
delivery models should be considered part of efforts to reduce the life 
expectancy gap between individuals with psychiatric conditions and those without 
such conditions.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ps.20220428
PMCID: PMC10543562
PMID: 37016822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no financial relationships 
with commercial interests.


676. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2023 Jul-Dec;58(9):998-1008. doi: 
10.1080/00365521.2023.2194008. Epub 2023 Apr 5.

A wide scan of plasma proteins demonstrates thioredoxin reductase 1 as a 
potential new diagnostic biomarker for hepatocellular carcinoma.

Zenlander R(1)(2)(3), Fredolini C(4), Schwenk JM(4), Rydén I(5), Påhlsson P(5), 
Löwbeer C(2)(6), Eggertsen G(1)(3), Stål P(3)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Department of Medicine, Huddinge, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Science for Life Laboratory, School of Engineering Sciences in Chemistry, 
Biotechnology and Health, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Solna, Sweden.
(5)Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences, Linköping University, 
Linköping, Sweden.
(6)Department of Clinical Chemistry, SYNLAB Sverige, Täby, Sweden.
(7)Division of Hepatology, Department of Upper GI diseases, Karolinska 
University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Patients with liver cirrhosis are recommended ultrasonography 
screening for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma to increase the 
chances of curative treatment. However, ultrasonography alone lacks in 
sensitivity. Adding plasma biomarkers may increase the detection rate. We 
performed a broad exploratory analysis to find new plasma proteins with 
potential applicability for HCC screening in patients with cirrhosis.
METHODS: In a protein discovery cohort of 172 patients with cirrhosis or HCC, we 
screened for 481 proteins with suspension bead array or proximity extension 
assay. From these, 24 proteins were selected for further analysis in a protein 
verification cohort (n = 160), using ELISA, Luminex or an 
electrochemiluminescence platform. A cut-off model and a stepwise logistic 
regression model were used to find combinations of proteins with the best 
discriminatory performance between HCC and cirrhosis.
RESULTS: Stepwise logistic regression revealed alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), 
decarboxy-prothrombin (DCP), thioredoxin reductase 1 (TXNRD1), and fibroblast 
growth factor 21 (FGF21) as the proteins with the best discriminatory 
performance between HCC and cirrhosis. Adding TXNRD1 to DCP and AFP increased 
the AUC from 0.844 to 0.878, and combining AFP, DCP and TXNRD1 with age and sex 
resulted in an AUC of 0.920. FGF21, however, did not further increase the 
performance when including age and sex.
CONCLUSION: In the present study, TXNRD1 improves the sensitivity and 
specificity of AFP and DCP as HCC screening tools in patients with cirrhosis. We 
suggest that TXNRD1 should be validated in prospective settings as a new 
complementary HCC biomarker together with AFP and DCP.

DOI: 10.1080/00365521.2023.2194008
PMID: 37017178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2023 Dec 31;19(1):2186111. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2023.2186111. Epub 2023 Apr 5.

Changing patterns of invasive meningococcal disease and future immunization 
strategies.

Taha MK(1), Bekkat-Berkani R(2), Abitbol V(3).

Author information:
(1)Institut Pasteur, Invasive Bacterial Infections Unit, National Reference 
Centre for Meningococci and Haemophilus Influenza, Paris, France.
(2)GSK, Rockville, MD, USA.
(3)GSK, Rueil-Malmaison, France.

Invasive meningococcal disease (IMD) is a life-threatening disease caused by 
Neisseria meningitidis and has high mortality rates. Survivors often exhibit 
long-term sequelae and reduced life expectancy. Disease incidence is highest in 
infants and toddlers, with a resurgence of cases in adolescents and older adults 
(>50 years of age). Substantial heterogeneity exists in the recommendations of 
meningococcal vaccines included in National Immunization Programs (NIPs) across 
countries. Recommendations are usually based on infant/toddler immunization, 
with some countries recommending immunization only for toddlers. While existing 
recommendations have led to a reduced incidence of IMD in children <5 years of 
age, there has been an increase in cases among adolescents and older adults. 
Currently, older adults are not included in the recommendations. The higher 
healthcare burden and the economic costs associated with IMD in these age groups 
suggest that it is time to consider including adolescents and older adults in 
NIPs to protect against IMD caused by the five most prevalent serogroups. 
Currently, the lack of equity of access to vaccines in the immunization programs 
is a glaring gap in the betterment of public health, and a broader meningococcal 
strategy is recommended to provide optimal protection for all age groups.

Plain Language Summary: Invasive meningococcal diseases, which include 
meningitis, are rare and unpredictable, but may lead to very 
important/debilitating long-term sequelae, death, or reduced life expectancy. 
Vaccination is the best way to prevent them. Vaccination recommendations 
provided by national health agencies usually target infants (or toddlers), 
children, and adolescents. Older adults are only considered when they are at 
risk for invasive meningococcal diseases.Here, we analyzed the vaccination 
strategies for invasive meningococcal disease in different countries to identify 
the gaps preventing access to vaccination.We found that recommendations for 
invasive meningococcal disease vaccination vary markedly among countries. 
Vaccination programs target mainly infants and toddlers, and they successfully 
reduced the number of cases among them. However, we also observed that the 
disease now affects more adults. We also found that the lack of equitable access 
to vaccination prevents broader meningococcal protection for persons of any 
age.With this analysis, we suggest improving the current meningococcal 
vaccination guidelines to also provide adolescents and healthy older adults with 
access to vaccines. Promoting equal access to vaccination for everyone could 
reduce the impact on the healthcare system and help reduce social disparity. In 
order to do so, we advise universal recommendation of meningococcal vaccines, 
which would provide clear guidance to health-care practitioners.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2023.2186111
PMCID: PMC10101658
PMID: 37017273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Véronique Abitbol and Rafik Bekkat-Berkani are 
employed by GSK and hold shares in GSK. Muhamed-Kheir Taha reports 
grants/contracts from GSK, Pfizer, and Sanofi Pasteur for activities outside the 
presented work. Muhamed-Kheir Taha also reports a patent 630133 issued for 
activities outside the presented work. The authors declare no other financial or 
non-financial relationships and activities.


678. J Med Internet Res. 2023 Apr 5;25:e43224. doi: 10.2196/43224.

Lessons for Vietnam on the Use of Digital Technologies to Support 
Patient-Centered Care in Low- and Middle-Income Countries in the Asia-Pacific 
Region: Scoping Review.

Kosowicz L(1), Tran K(1), Khanh TT(2), Dang TH(1)(3), Pham VA(4), Ta Thi Kim 
H(5)(6), Thi Bach Duong H(5), Nguyen TD(5), Phuong AT(4), Le TH(7), Ta VA(5), 
Wickramasinghe N(8), Schofield P(3), Zelcer J(8), Pham Le T(2)(9), Nguyen 
TA(1)(3)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Social Gerontology Division, National Ageing Research Institute, Parkville, 
Australia.
(2)Department of Family Medicine, Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(3)School of Health Sciences, Swinburne University of Technology, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(4)Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(5)New Horizon Palliative Care Company Limited, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(6)Hanoi University of Science and Technology, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(7)Hanoi University of Pharmacy, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(8)Iverson Health Innovation Research Institute, Swinburne University of 
Technology, Melbourne, Australia.
(9)Military and Civil Medical Association of Vietnam, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(10)UniSA Clinical and Health Sciences, University of South Australia, Adelaide, 
Australia.
(11)Health Strategy and Policy Institute, Ministry of Health of Vietnam, Hanoi, 
Vietnam.

BACKGROUND: A rapidly aging population, a shifting disease burden and the 
ongoing threat of infectious disease outbreaks pose major concerns for Vietnam's 
health care system. Health disparities are evident in many parts of the country, 
especially in rural areas, and the population faces inequitable access to 
patient-centered health care. Vietnam must therefore explore and implement 
advanced solutions to the provision of patient-centered care, with a view to 
reducing pressures on the health care system simultaneously. The use of digital 
health technologies (DHTs) may be one of these solutions.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to identify the application of DHTs to support the 
provision of patient-centered care in low- and middle-income countries in the 
Asia-Pacific region (APR) and to draw lessons for Vietnam.
METHODS: A scoping review was undertaken. Systematic searches of 7 databases 
were conducted in January 2022 to identify publications on DHTs and 
patient-centered care in the APR. Thematic analysis was conducted, and DHTs were 
classified using the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence evidence 
standards framework for DHTs (tiers A, B, and C). Reporting was in line with the 
PRISMA-ScR (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses 
extension for Scoping Reviews) guidelines.
RESULTS: Of the 264 publications identified, 45 (17%) met the inclusion 
criteria. The majority of the DHTs were classified as tier C (15/33, 45%), 
followed by tier B (14/33, 42%) and tier A (4/33, 12%). At an individual level, 
DHTs increased accessibility of health care and health-related information, 
supported individuals in self-management, and led to improvements in clinical 
and quality-of-life outcomes. At a systems level, DHTs supported 
patient-centered outcomes by increasing efficiency, reducing strain on health 
care resources, and supporting patient-centered clinical practice. The most 
frequently reported enablers for the use of DHTs for patient-centered care 
included alignment of DHTs with users' individual needs, ease of use, 
availability of direct support from health care professionals, provision of 
technical support as well as user education and training, appropriate governance 
of privacy and security, and cross-sectorial collaboration. Common barriers 
included low user literacy and digital literacy, limited user access to DHT 
infrastructure, and a lack of policies and protocols to guide the implementation 
and use of DHTs.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of DHTs is a viable option to increase equitable access to 
quality, patient-centered care across Vietnam and simultaneously reduce 
pressures on the health care system. Vietnam can take advantage of the lessons 
learned by other low- and middle-income countries in the APR when developing a 
national road map to digital health transformation. Recommendations that 
Vietnamese policy makers may consider include emphasizing stakeholder 
engagement, strengthening digital literacy, supporting the improvement of DHT 
infrastructure, increasing cross-sectorial collaboration, strengthening 
governance of cybersecurity, and leading the way in DHT uptake.

©Leona Kosowicz, Kham Tran, Toan Tran Khanh, Thu Ha Dang, Van An Pham, Hue Ta 
Thi Kim, Hoang Thi Bach Duong, Tran Dong Nguyen, Anh Tuyet Phuong, Trong Hieu 
Le, Van Anh Ta, Nilmini Wickramasinghe, Penelope Schofield, John Zelcer, Tuan 
Pham Le, Tuan Anh Nguyen. Originally published in the Journal of Medical 
Internet Research (https://www.jmir.org), 05.04.2023.

DOI: 10.2196/43224
PMCID: PMC10132046
PMID: 37018013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


679. JCO Glob Oncol. 2023 Apr;9:e2200360. doi: 10.1200/GO.22.00360.

HIV Prevalence and Characteristics Among Patients With AIDS-Defining and 
Non-AIDS-Defining Cancers in a Tertiary Hospital in Kenya.

Muturi D(1), Mwanzi SN(2), Riunga FM(1), Shah J(1), Shah R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Aga Khan University, Nairobi, Kenya.
(2)Department of Haemato-Oncology, Aga Khan University, Nairobi, Kenya.

PURPOSE: Antiretroviral therapy (ART) has resulted in a higher life expectancy 
of persons living with HIV. This has led to an aging population at risk for both 
non-AIDS-defining cancers (NADCs) and AIDS-defining cancers (ADCs). HIV testing 
among patients with cancer in Kenya is not routinely performed, making its 
prevalence undefined. The aim of our study was to determine the prevalence of 
HIV and the spectrum of malignancies among HIV-positive and HIV-negative 
patients with cancer attending a tertiary hospital in Nairobi, Kenya.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional study between February 
2021 and September 2021. Patients with a histologic cancer diagnosis were 
enrolled. Demographic data and HIV- and cancer-related clinical variables were 
obtained. HIV pretest counseling and consent were done, and testing was 
performed using a fourth-generation assay. Positive results were confirmed using 
a third-generation assay.
RESULTS: We enrolled 301 patients with cancer; 67.8% (204 of 301) were female; 
the mean age was 50.7 ± 12.5 years. From our cohort, 10.6% (95% CI, 7.4 to 14.7, 
n = 32 of 301) of patients were HIV-positive with the prevalence of a new HIV 
diagnosis of 0.7% (n = 2 of 301). Of the HIV-positive patients, 59.4% (19 of 32) 
had a NADC. The commonest NADC was breast cancer (18.8%; 6 of 32), whereas 
non-Hodgkin lymphoma (18.8%; 6 of 32) and cervical cancer (18.8%; 6 of 32) were 
the most prevalent ADCs among HIV-positive patients.
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of HIV infection among patients with cancer was twice 
the Kenya national HIV prevalence. NADCs comprised a larger percentage of the 
cancer burden. Universal opt-out HIV testing of patients attending for cancer 
care regardless of cancer type may facilitate early recognition of HIV-infected 
patients and aid in appropriate selection of ART and cancer therapies and 
preventive strategies.

DOI: 10.1200/GO.22.00360
PMCID: PMC10281410
PMID: 37018633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The following represents disclosure information 
provided by authors of this manuscript. All relationships are considered 
compensated unless otherwise noted. Relationships are self-held unless noted. I 
= Immediate Family Member, Inst = My Institution. Relationships may not relate 
to the subject matter of this manuscript. For more information about ASCO's 
conflict of interest policy, please refer to www.asco.org/rwc or 
ascopubs.org/go/authors/author-center. Open Payments is a public database 
containing information reported by companies about payments made to US-licensed 
physicians (Open Payments).


680. DNA Repair (Amst). 2023 Jun;126:103491. doi: 10.1016/j.dnarep.2023.103491.
Epub  2023 Mar 31.

Corruption of DNA end-joining in mammalian chromosomes by progerin expression.

Joudeh LA(1), DiCintio AJ(1), Ries MR(1), Gasperson AS(1), Griffin KE(1), 
Robbins VP(1), Bonner M(1), Nolan S(1), Black E(1), Waldman AS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC 
29208, USA.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC 
29208, USA. Electronic address: awaldman@biol.sc.edu.

Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome (HGPS) is a rare genetic condition 
characterized by features of accelerated aging and a life expectancy of about 14 
years. HGPS is commonly caused by a point mutation in the LMNA gene which codes 
for lamin A, an essential component of the nuclear lamina. The HGPS mutation 
alters splicing of the LMNA transcript, leading to a truncated, farnesylated 
form of lamin A termed "progerin." Progerin is also produced in small amounts in 
healthy individuals by alternative splicing of RNA and has been implicated in 
normal aging. HGPS is associated with an accumulation of genomic DNA 
double-strand breaks (DSBs), suggesting alteration of DNA repair. DSB repair 
normally occurs by either homologous recombination (HR), an accurate, templated 
form of repair, or by nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ), a non-templated 
rejoining of DNA ends that can be error-prone; however a good portion of NHEJ 
events occurs precisely with no alteration to joined sequences. Previously, we 
reported that over-expression of progerin correlated with increased NHEJ 
relative to HR. We now report on progerin's impact on the nature of DNA 
end-joining. We used a model system involving a DNA end-joining reporter 
substrate integrated into the genome of cultured thymidine kinase-deficient 
mouse fibroblasts. Some cells were engineered to express progerin. Two closely 
spaced DSBs were induced in the integrated substrate through expression of 
endonuclease I-SceI, and DSB repair events were recovered through selection for 
thymidine kinase function. DNA sequencing revealed that progerin expression 
correlated with a significant shift away from precise end-joining between the 
two I-SceI sites and toward imprecise end-joining. Additional experiments 
revealed that progerin did not reduce HR fidelity. Our work suggests that 
progerin suppresses interactions between complementary sequences at DNA termini, 
thereby shifting DSB repair toward low-fidelity DNA end-joining and perhaps 
contributing to accelerated and normal aging through compromised genome 
stability.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dnarep.2023.103491
PMCID: PMC10133198
PMID: 37018982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that there are no conflicts of interest.


681. Public Health. 2023 May;218:128-135. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2023.02.021. Epub
2023  Apr 3.

Evaluation of the national governmental efforts between 1997 and 2010 in 
reducing health inequalities in England.

Vodden A(1), Holdroyd I(2), Bentley C(3), Marshall L(4), Barr B(5), Massou E(2), 
Ford J(6).

Author information:
(1)University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 250 Euston Road, 
London, NW1 2PG, UK.
(2)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Institute of Public Health, 
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, CB2 0SR, UK.
(3)Independent Population Health Consultant, UK.
(4)The Health Foundation, 8 Salisbury Square, London EC4Y 8AP, UK.
(5)Department of Public Health, Policy and Systems, Institute of Population 
Health, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, L693GB, UK.
(6)Wolfson Institute of Population Health, Queen Mary University of London, 
London, EC1M 6BQ, UK. Electronic address: j.a.ford@qmul.ac.uk.

OBJECTIVES: The pandemic has compounded existing inequalities. In the UK, there 
have been calls for a new cross-government health inequalities strategy. This 
study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of national governmental efforts 
between 1997 and 2010, referred to as the National Health Inequalities Strategy 
(NHIS).
STUDY DESIGN: population-based observational study.
METHODS: Using Global Burden of Disease data, age-standardised years of life 
lost due to premature mortality (YLL) rates per 10,000 were extracted for 150 
Upper Tier Local Authority (UTLA) regions in England for every year between 1990 
and 2019. The slope index of inequality was calculated using YLL rates for all 
causes, individual conditions, and risk factors. Joinpoint regression was used 
to assess the trends of any changes which arose before, during or after the 
NHIS.
RESULTS: Absolute inequalities in YLL rates for all causes remained stable 
between 1990 and 2000, before decreasing over the following 10 years. After 
2010, improvements slowed. A similar trend can be observed amongst inequalities 
in YLLs for individual causes, including ischaemic heart disease, stroke, breast 
cancer and lung cancer amongst females, and ischaemic heart disease stroke, 
diabetes and self-harm amongst males. This trend was also observed amongst 
certain risk factors, notably blood pressure, cholesterol, tobacco and dietary 
risks. Inequalities were generally greater in males than in females; however, 
trends were similar across both sexes. The NHIS coincided with significant 
reductions in inequalities in YLLs due to ischaemic heart disease and lung 
