Technology, Tianjin 300130, China; Hebei Collaborative Innovation Center of 
Modern Marine Chemical Technology, Tianjin 300130, China.
(2)Engineering Research Center of Seawater Utilization Technology of Ministry of 
Education, School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Hebei University of 
Technology, Tianjin 300130, China; Hebei Collaborative Innovation Center of 
Modern Marine Chemical Technology, Tianjin 300130, China. Electronic address: 
mudi@hebut.edu.cn.
(3)Engineering Research Center of Seawater Utilization Technology of Ministry of 
Education, School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Hebei University of 
Technology, Tianjin 300130, China; Hebei Collaborative Innovation Center of 
Modern Marine Chemical Technology, Tianjin 300130, China. Electronic address: 
wuhongqing@hebut.edu.cn.
(4)Hebei Collaborative Innovation Center of Modern Marine Chemical Technology, 
Tianjin 300130, China; Tianjin Key Laboratory of Marine Resources and Chemistry, 
Tianjin University of Science and Technology, Tianjin 300457, China.
(5)Hebei Collaborative Innovation Center of Modern Marine Chemical Technology, 
Tianjin 300130, China; Tangshan Ruihui Aquaculture Co. LTD, Tangshan 063604, 
China.
(6)Hebei Collaborative Innovation Center of Modern Marine Chemical Technology, 
Tianjin 300130, China; Tangshan Fishery Comprehensive Administrative Law 
Enforcement Detachment, Tangshan 063210, China.
(7)Hebei Collaborative Innovation Center of Modern Marine Chemical Technology, 
Tianjin 300130, China; Tangshan Aquatic Technology Extension Station, Tangshan 
063004, China.
(8)Hebei Collaborative Innovation Center of Modern Marine Chemical Technology, 
Tianjin 300130, China; School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Tianjin 
University, Tianjin 300354, China.
(9)Hebei Collaborative Innovation Center of Modern Marine Chemical Technology, 
Tianjin 300130, China; State Key Laboratory of Biogeology and Environmental 
Geology, China University of Geosciences (Wuhan), Wuhan 430074, China.
(10)Engineering Research Center of Seawater Utilization Technology of Ministry 
of Education, School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Hebei University of 
Technology, Tianjin 300130, China; Hebei Collaborative Innovation Center of 
Modern Marine Chemical Technology, Tianjin 300130, China. Electronic address: 
jizhiyong@hebut.edu.cn.

Developing effective marine water quality criteria (WQC) is crucial for 
controlling marine contamination and protecting marine life. The WQC for copper 
is urgently needed due to the toxicity and widespread of copper contamination. 
In this work, both short-term water quality criteria (SWQC) and long-term water 
quality criteria (LWQC) under 10 % effect endpoints were derived by using the 
model averaging of species sensitivity distribution (SSD10) method for Bohai 
Bay. The WQC values were obtained directly from the hazardous concentration for 
5 % of species (HC5) values, which removes the influence of arbitrary assessment 
factor (AF). Modifications to the acute-chronic ratio (ACR) strategies and the 
inclusion of the test toxicity data of local species also improved the accuracy 
and applicability of the WQC values. The derived SWQC and LWQC were 2.21 and 
0.45 μg/L, respectively. Furthermore, the overall risk level of copper in Bohai 
Bay was evaluated by using the risk quotient (RQ) method, and the results showed 
it was at a moderate-low level. This study provides a new approach for the 
derivation of the WQC for Cu and the risk assessment of Bohai Bay, which is 
essential for the protection of local aquatic life and provides guidance to the 
establishment of the national WQC.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.marpolbul.2023.114863
PMID: 36989599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


591. Am J Cardiol. 2023 May 15;195:3-8. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2023.02.022. Epub
2023  Mar 28.

Disability-Adjusted Life-Years After Adult In-Hospital Cardiac Arrest in the 
United States.

Coute RA(1), Nathanson BH(2), Kurz MC(3), Mader TJ(4), Jackson EA(5); American 
Heart Association's Get With The Guidelines—Resuscitation Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham 
Heersink School of Medicine, Birmingham, Alabama. Electronic address: 
rcoute@uabmc.edu.
(2)OptiStatim, LLC, Longmeadow, Massachusetts.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham 
Heersink School of Medicine, Birmingham, Alabama; Center for Injury Science, 
University of Alabama at Birmingham Heersink School of Medicine, Birmingham, 
Alabama.
(4)Department of Emergency Medicine, UMass Chan Medical School-Baystate, 
Springfield, Massachusetts.
(5)Division of Cardiovascular Disease, University of Alabama at Birmingham 
Heersink School of Medicine, Birmingham, Alabama.

We sought to estimate disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) because of adult 
in-hospital cardiac arrest (IHCA) and to compare IHCA DALY to other leading 
causes of death and disability in the United States. DALY were calculated as the 
sum of years of life lost and years lived with disability. The years of life 
lost were calculated using all adult IHCA with complete data from the American 
Heart Association Get With The Guidelines-Resuscitation database for 2015 to 
2019. Cerebral performance category scores and published disability weights were 
used to estimate the years lived with disability for survivors. The cohort's 
DALY were extrapolated to a national level to estimate the total United States 
DALY and were compared with a published ranking of the leading causes of DALY in 
the United States for 2018. Data were reported as DALY total and rate per 
100,000. A total of 99,897 IHCA were included from 329 hospitals. The total IHCA 
DALY increased from 2,208,310 in 2015 to 2,225,722 in 2019. A modest decrease in 
the DALY rate was observed from 689 per 100,000 in 2015 to 678 per 100,000 in 
2019. In 2018, the rate of IHCA DALY were 728 per 100,000, which represented the 
11th leading cause of DALY. When combined with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest 
(1,322 per 100,000), sudden cardiac arrest (2,050 per 100,000) was found the be 
the 2nd leading cause of DALY after ischemic heart disease (2,681 per 100,000) 
in 2018. In conclusion, adult IHCA is a leading cause of DALY in the United 
States and has increased over time because of the expansion of the Get With The 
Guidelines-Resuscitation database.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2023.02.022
PMID: 36989605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures Dr. Coute reports Emergency Medicine 
Foundation resident research grant; BHN: UAB paid BHN's company, OptiStatim, 
LLC, a consulting fee for statistical services related to the manuscript. The 
remaining authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.


592. J Surg Res. 2023 Aug;288:157-165. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2023.02.009. Epub 2023
Mar  27.

Factors Associated With Triage Decisions in Older Adult Trauma Patients: Impact 
on Mortality and Morbidity.

Haines KL(1), Truong T(2), Trujillo CN(2), Freeman JJ(3), Cox CE(3), 
Fernandez-More J(2), Morris R(4), Antonescu I(2), Burlotos A(2), Grisel B(2), 
Agarwal S(2), Kuchibhatla M(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Trauma, Critical Care, and Acute Care Surgery, Department of 
Surgery, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina. Electronic 
address: krista.haines@duke.edu.
(2)Division of Trauma, Critical Care, and Acute Care Surgery, Department of 
Surgery, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina.
(3)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Duke University School of 
Medicine, Durham, North Carolina; Department of Surgery, TCU School of Medicine, 
Fort Worth, Texas.
(4)Division of Trauma, Critical Care, and Acute Care Surgery, Department of 
Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

INTRODUCTION: As medical advances have significantly increased the life 
expectancy among older adults, the number of older patients requiring trauma 
care has risen proportionately. Nevertheless, it is unclear among this growing 
population which sociodemographic and economic factors are associated with 
decisions to triage and transfer to level I/II centers. This study aims to 
assess for any association between patient sociodemographic characteristics, 
triage decisions, and outcomes during acute trauma care presentations.
METHODS: The National Trauma Data Bank was queried for patients aged 65 and 
older with an injury severity score > 15 between the years 2007 to 2017. Factors 
associated with subsequent levels of triage on presentation were assessed using 
multivariate logistic regression, and associations of levels of triage with 
outcomes of mortality, morbidity, and hospital length of stay are examined using 
logistic and linear regression models.
RESULTS: Triage of 210,310 older adult trauma patients showed significant 
findings. American Indian patients had higher odds of being transferred to level 
I/II centers, while Asian, Black, and Native Hawaiian patients had lower odds of 
being transferred to level I/II centers when compared to Caucasian patients 
(P < 0.001). Regarding insurance, self-pay (uninsured) patients were less likely 
to be transferred to a higher level of care; however, this was also demonstrated 
in private insurance holders (P < 0.001). Caucasian patients had significantly 
higher odds of mortality, with Black patients (odds ratio [OR] 0.80 [0.75, 
0.85]) and American Indian patients (OR 0.87 [0.72, 1.04]) having significantly 
lower odds (P < 0.001). Compared to government insurance, private insurance 
holders (OR 0.82 [0.80, 0.85]) also had significantly lower odds of mortality, 
while higher odds among self-pay were observed (OR 1.75 [1.62, 1.90]), 
(P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Access to insurance is associated with triage decisions involving 
older adults sustaining trauma, with lower access increasing mortality risk. 
Factors such as race and gender were less likely to be associated with triage 
decisions. However, due to this study's retrospective design, further 
prospective analysis is necessary to fully assess the decisions that influence 
trauma triage decisions in this patient population.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jss.2023.02.009
PMID: 36989831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. J Biomech. 2023 May;152:111528. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2023.111528. Epub
2023  Mar 16.

Functional range of motion of the cervical spine in cervical fusion patients 
during activities of daily living.

Riffitts M(1), Oh A(2), Alemu A(3), Patel V(3), Smith CN(2), Murati S(1), Bailes 
A(1), Allen M(3), Dombrowski M(2), Lee JY(2), Donaldson WF 3rd(2), Clark WW(3), 
Bell K(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, 
USA.
(3)Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(4)Department of Bioengineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. 
Electronic address: kmb7@pitt.edu.

Following cervical spine fusion there is a reduction in maximum range of motion 
(ROM) but how this impacts activity of daily living (ADLs) and quality of life 
is unknown. This study's purpose is to quantify maximum and functional cervical 
spine ROM in patients with multi-level cervical fusion (>3 levels) compared to 
controls during ADLs and to correlate functional range of motion with scores 
from patient reported outcomes measures (PROs) including the Comparative Pain 
Scale (CPS), Fear Avoidance Belief Questionnaire (FABQ), and Neck Disability 
Index (NDI). An inertial measurement unit (IMU) system quantified ROM during 
ADLs in the extension/flexion, lateral bending, and axial rotation directions of 
motion. The reliability of this system was compared to standard optical motion 
tracking. Fourteen participants (8 females, age = 60.0 years (18.7) (median, 
(interquartile range)) with a history of multi-level cervical fusion (years 
post-op 0.9 (0.7)) were compared to 16 controls (13 females, age = 52.1 years 
(15.8)). PROs were collected for each participant. Fusion participants had 
significantly decreased maximum ROM in all directions of motion. Fusion 
participants had decreased ROM for some ADLs (backing up a car, using a phone, 
donning socks, negotiating stairs). CPS, FABQ, and NDI scores were significantly 
increased in fusion participants. Reductions in two activities (backing up a 
car, stair negotiation) correlated with a combination of increased PRO scores. 
Cervical fusion decreases maximum ROM and is correlated with increased PROs in 
some ADLs, however there is minimal impact on functional ROM. Investigation into 
velocity and acceleration may yield categorization of pathologic movement.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2023.111528
PMID: 36989970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


594. Phys Med. 2023 Apr;108:102569. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmp.2023.102569. Epub 2023
Mar  28.

Does variable RBE affect toxicity risks for mediastinal lymphoma patients? 
NTCP-based evaluation after proton therapy treatment.

Tommasino F(1), Cartechini G(2), Righetto R(3), Farace P(3), Cianchetti M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics, University of Trento, Povo, Italy; Trento Institute 
for Fundamental Physics and Applications (TIFPA), INFN National Institute for 
Nuclear Physics, Trento, Italy. Electronic address: 
francesco.tommasino@unitn.it.
(2)Department of Physics, University of Trento, Povo, Italy; Trento Institute 
for Fundamental Physics and Applications (TIFPA), INFN National Institute for 
Nuclear Physics, Trento, Italy.
(3)Protontherapy Department, Azienda Provinciale per i Servizi Sanitari (APSS), 
Trento, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Mediastinal lymphoma (ML) is a solid malignancy affecting young 
patients. Modern combined treatments allow obtaining good survival probability, 
together with a long life expectancy, and therefore with the need to minimize 
treatment-related toxicities. We quantified the expected toxicity risk for 
different organs and endpoints in ML patients treated with intensity-modulated 
proton therapy (IMPT) at our centre, accounting also for uncertainties related 
to variable RBE.
METHODS: Treatment plans for ten ML patients were recalculated with a 
TOPAS-based Monte Carlo code, thus retrieving information on LET and allowing 
the estimation of variable RBE. Published NTCP models were adopted to calculate 
the toxicity risk for hypothyroidism, heart valve defects, coronary heart 
disease and lung fibrosis. NTCP was calculated assuming both constant (i.e. 1.1) 
and variable RBE. The uncertainty associated with individual radiosensitivity 
was estimated by random sampling α/β values before RBE evaluation.
RESULTS: Variable RBE had a minor impact on hypothyroidism risk for 7 patients, 
while it led to significant increase for the remaining three (+24% risk maximum 
increase). Lung fibrosis was slightly affected by variable RBE, with a maximum 
increase of ≅ 1%. This was similar for heart valve dysfunction, with the 
exception of one patient showing an about 10% risk increase, which could be 
explained by means of large heart volume and D1 increase.
DISCUSSION: The use of NTCP models allows for identifying those patients 
associated with a higher toxicity risk. For those patients, it might be worth 
including variable RBE in plan evaluation.

Copyright © 2023 Associazione Italiana di Fisica Medica e Sanitaria. Published 
by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmp.2023.102569
PMID: 36989976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


595. Brain Res. 2023 Jun 15;1809:148353. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2023.148353.
Epub  2023 Mar 27.

Effectiveness and electrophysiological mechanisms of focal vibration on upper 
limb motor dysfunction in patients with subacute stroke: A randomized controlled 
trial.

Wang L(1), Wang S(2), Zhang S(1), Dou Z(3), Guo T(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Wuhan Hospital of Integrated 
Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, Wuhan 430000, China.
(3)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun 
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510630, China. Electronic address: 
douzulin@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China. 
Electronic address: pmr@tjh.tjmu.edu.cn.

Upper limb motor dysfunction is a common complication after stroke, which has a 
negative impact on the daily life of the patients. Focal vibration (FV) has been 
used to improve upper limb motor function in acute and chronic stroke patients, 
but its application in subacute stroke patients has not been extensively 
explored. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to explore the therapeutic 
effect of FV on upper limb motor function in subacute stroke patients and its 
underlying electrophysiological mechanism. Twenty-nine patients were enrolled 
and randomized into two groups: a control group and a vibration group. The 
control group were treated with conventional therapy including passive and 
active physical activity training, standing and sitting balance exercises, 
muscle strength training, hand extension and grasping exercises. The vibration 
group were given conventional rehabilitation and vibration therapy. A deep 
muscle stimulator (DMS) with a frequency of 60 Hz and an amplitude of 6 mm was 
used to provide vibration stimulation, which was sequentially applied along the 
biceps muscle to the flexor radialis of the affected limb for 10 min, once a 
day, and 6 times a week. Both groups received treatments for 4 consecutive 
weeks. In the vibration group, the motor evoked potential (MEP) latency and the 
somatosensory evoked potential (SEP) latency were significantly shortened 
(P < 0.05) immediately and 30 min after vibration; the SEP amplitude and MEP 
amplitude were significantly increased (P < 0.05) immediately and 30 min after 
vibration. The MEP latency (P = 0.001) and SEP N20 latency (P = 0.001) were 
shortened, and the MEP amplitude (P = 0.011) and SEP N20 amplitude (P = 0.017) 
were significantly increased after 4 weeks in the vibration group. After 4 
consecutive weeks, the vibration group showed significant improvements in 
Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS) (P = 0.037), Brunnstrom stage for upper extremity 
(BS-UE) (P = 0.020), Fugl-Meyer assessment for upper extremity (FMA-UE) 
(P = 0.029), Modified Barthel Index (MBI) (P = 0.024), and SEP N20 (P = 0.046) 
compared to the control group. The Brunnstrom stage for hand (BS-H) (P = 0.451) 
did not show significant differences between the two groups. This study showed 
that FV was effective in improving upper limb motor function in subacute stroke 
patients. The underlying mechanism of FV may be that it enhances the efficacy of 
sensory pathways and induces plastic changes in the sensorimotor cortex.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2023.148353
PMID: 36990135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


596. Lancet Haematol. 2023 Apr;10(4):e272-e283. doi:
10.1016/S2352-3026(22)00403-3.

Eprenetapopt combined with venetoclax and azacitidine in TP53-mutated acute 
myeloid leukaemia: a phase 1, dose-finding and expansion study.

Garcia-Manero G(1), Goldberg AD(2), Winer ES(3), Altman JK(4), Fathi AT(5), 
Odenike O(6), Roboz GJ(7), Sweet K(8), Miller C(9), Wennborg A(9), Hickman 
DK(9), Kanagal-Shamanna R(10), Kantarjian H(1), Lancet J(8), Komrokji R(8), 
Attar EC(9), Sallman DA(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Leukemia, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX, USA.
(2)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(4)Robert H Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center, Chicago, IL, USA.
(5)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, Boston, MA, USA.
(6)Section of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of Chicago 
Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(7)Weill Cornell Medicine and the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY, 
USA.
(8)Department of Malignant Hematology, H Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research 
Institute, Tampa, FL, USA.
(9)Aprea Therapeutics, Boston, MA, USA.
(10)Department of Hematopathology and Molecular Diagnostics, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(11)Department of Malignant Hematology, H Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research 
Institute, Tampa, FL, USA. Electronic address: david.sallman@moffitt.org.

BACKGROUND: TP53-mutated acute myeloid leukaemia is associated with poor 
outcomes. Eprenetapopt (APR-246) is a first-in-class, small-molecule p53 
reactivator. We aimed to evaluate the combination of eprenetapopt and venetoclax 
with or without azacitidine in patients with TP53-mutated acute myeloid 
leukaemia.
METHODS: This phase 1, multicentre, open-label, dose-finding and cohort 
expansion study was done at eight academic research hospitals in the USA. 
Inclusion criteria were age of at least 18 years; at least one pathogenic TP53 
mutation; treatment-naive acute myeloid leukaemia according to the 2016 WHO 
classification; an ECOG performance status of 0-2; and a life expectancy of at 
least 12 weeks. In dose-finding cohort 1 patients received previous therapy with 
hypomethylating agents for myelodysplastic syndromes. In dose-finding cohort 2, 
previous use of hypomethylating agents was not permitted. Treatment cycles were 
28 days. Patients in cohort 1 received intravenous eprenetapopt 4·5 g/day on 
days 1-4 and oral venetoclax 400 mg/day on days 1-28; those in cohort 2 also 
received subcutaneous or intravenous azacitidine 75 mg/m2 on days 1-7. The 
expansion part of the study proceeded with patients enrolled as in cohort 2. 
Primary endpoints were safety in all cohorts (assessed in patients receiving at 
least one dose of assigned treatment) and complete response in the expansion 
cohort (assessed in patients who completed at least one treatment cycle and had 
at least one post-treatment clinical response assessment). The trial is 
registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT04214860, and is complete.
FINDINGS: Between Jan 3, 2020, and July 22, 2021, 49 patients were enrolled 
across all cohorts. Six patients were initially enrolled into each of 
dose-finding cohorts 1 and 2; after no dose-limiting toxicities were observed, 
cohort 2 was expanded to enrol an additional 37 patients. The median age was 67 
years (IQR 59-73). 24 (49%) of 49 patients were female and 25 (51%) male, and 40 
(82%) were White. At data cutoff (Oct 1, 2021), the median length of follow-up 
was 9·5 months (IQR 6·1-11·5). No dose-limiting toxicities were recorded and the 
recommended phase 2 dose for eprenetapopt combinations was 4·5 g/day on days 
1-4. Across all patients, adverse events of grade 3 or worse occurring in at 
least 20% of patients were febrile neutropenia (23 [47%] of 49 patients), 
thrombocytopenia (18 [37%] patients), leukopenia (12 [25%] patients), and 
anaemia (11 [22%] patients). Treatment-related serious adverse events occurred 
in 13 (27%) of 49 patients and there was one (2%) treatment-related death 
(sepsis). 25 (64%, 95% CI 47-79) of 39 patients had an overall response with 
eprenetapopt and venetoclax with azacytidine; 15 (38%, 23-55) had a complete 
response.
INTERPRETATION: Eprenetapopt and venetoclax with azacitidine had an acceptable 
safety profile and encouraging activity, supporting further frontline evaluation 
of this combination in the treatment of TP53-mutated acute myeloid leukaemia.
FUNDING: Aprea Therapeutics.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2352-3026(22)00403-3
PMID: 36990622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests GG-M reports research 
funding from Aprea Therapeutics. ADG reports research funding from Aprea 
Therapeutics; consulting fees from AbbVie, Aptose Biosciences, Astellas Pharma, 
Daiichi Sankyo, and Genentech; honoraria from AbbVie and Dava Oncology; and 
advisory board membership for AbbVie. ESW reports consulting fees from Pfizer, 
Jazz Pharmaceuticals, and Takeda. JKA reports research funding from Astellas 
Pharma and OPEN Health Group. ATF reports grants from Agios 
Pharmaceuticals/Servier, Celgene/Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS), and AbbVie; and 
consulting fees from Pfizer, Trillium Health Partners, AbbVie, Kura Oncology, 
Blueprint Medicines, Genentech, Novartis, Trovagene, Agios 
Pharmaceuticals/Servier, Celgene/BMS, MorphoSys, Kite Pharma, Foghorn 
Therapeutics, Takeda, Amgen, Seattle Genetics, NewLink Genetics, Forty Seven, 
Ipsen, ImmunoGen, Mablytics, PureTech Health, Forma Therapeutics, Daiichi 
Sankyo, EnClear Therapies, and Astellas Pharma. OO reports research funding from 
Aprea Therapeutics; grants from AbbVie, Agios Pharmaceuticals, Astex, 
AstraZeneca, BMS, Celgene, CTI BioPharma, Daiichi Sankyo, Incyte, Janssen 
Pharmaceuticals, Kartos Therapeutics, Loxo Oncology, Novartis, NS Pharma, and 
Oncotherapy Sciences; advisory board membership for BMS, Celgene, Novartis, 
Taiho Pharmaceutical, and Kymera Therapeutics; membership of a data safety 
monitoring board for Threadwell Therapeutics; and leadership as Vice Chair of 
the medical advisory board of the Aplastic Anemia and MDS International 
Foundation. Kxs consulting fees from Astellas Pharma, BMS, Gilead Sciences, and 
Novartis and advisory board membership for BerGenBio, Curis, and Mablytics. GJR 
reports research funding from Aprea Therapeutics; grants from Janssen 
Pharmaceuticals; and consulting fees from Actinium Pharmaceuticals, Agios 
Pharmaceuticals, Amgen, Astellas Pharma, AstraZeneca, BMS, Blueprint Medicines, 
bluebird bio, Catamaran Bio, Celgene, Daiichi Sankyo, GlaxoSmithKline, Helsinn, 
Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Jasper Therapeutics, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Mesoblast, 
Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Syndax Pharmaceuticals, Takeda, and Trovagene. JL 
reports consulting fees from AbbVie, Agios Pharmaceuticals, Astellas Pharma, 
BerGenBio, Boxer Capital, Celgene, Daiichi Sankyo, The Dedham Group, ElevateBio, 
Jasper Therapeutics, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Millenium Pharmaceuticals, Novartis, 
and Servier. DKH, AW, and ECA report employment with Aprea Therapeutics. HK 
reports grants from AbbVie, Amgen, Ascentage Pharma, BMS, Daiichi Sankyo, 
ImmunoGen, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, and Novartis and honoraria from AbbVie, Amgen, 
Amphista Therapeutics, Ascentage Pharma, Astellas Pharma, Biologix Pharma, 
Curis, Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals, KAHR Medical, Labcorp, Novartis, Pfizer, 
Shenzhen TargetRx, Stemline Therapeutics, and Takeda. DAS reports research 
funding from Aprea Therapeutics and Jazz Pharmaceuticals; consulting fees from 
AbbVie, Takeda, Zentalis Pharmaceuticals, and Molecular Partners; speakers 
bureaus from BMS and Incyte; and advisory board membership for AvenCell, Jasper 
Therapeutics, bluebird bio, BMS, Shattuck Labs, Intellia Therapeutics, Novartis, 
Gilead Sciences, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Curis, Syndax Pharmaceuticals, Agios 
Pharmaceuticals, and Servier. All other authors declare no competing interests.


597. Semin Radiat Oncol. 2023 Apr;33(2):139-147. doi: 
10.1016/j.semradonc.2022.11.004.

Radiation Therapy for Painful Bone Metastases: Fractionation, Recalcification, 
and Symptom Control.

Tseng YD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA; 
Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutch Cancer Center, Seattle, WA. Electronic 
address: ydt2@uw.edu.

Bone is a common site for metastases, which may cause pain and other 
skeletal-related events (SRE) in patients with advanced cancer. Since the 1980s, 
prospective clinical trials have demonstrated the high efficacy of external beam 
radiotherapy (EBRT) for pain relief from focal, symptomatic lesions. In 
uncomplicated bone metastases, which include those without pathologic fracture, 
evidence of cord compression, or prior surgical intervention, improvement or 
complete pain relief with radiotherapy is as high as 60%, with no difference in 
efficacy when radiotherapy is delivered in a single or multiple fractions. The 
ability to treat with a single fraction makes EBRT an attractive therapy even 
for patients with poor performance status and/or life expectancy. Even in 
patients with complicated bone metastases (eg cord compression), several 
randomized trials have demonstrated similar rates of pain relief in addition to 
improved functional outcomes such as ambulation. In this review, we summarize 
the role of EBRT for alleviating painful bone metastases and explore its role 
for other endpoints including functional outcomes, recalcification, and 
prevention of SREs.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semradonc.2022.11.004
PMID: 36990631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


598. Semin Radiat Oncol. 2023 Apr;33(2):172-180. doi: 
10.1016/j.semradonc.2022.11.007.

Radiotherapy for Lung Metastases: Conventional to Stereotactic Body Radiation 
Therapy.

Das A(1), Giuliani M(1), Bezjak A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University 
of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University 
of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.; Department of Health Policy, Management 
and Evaluation, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.. Electronic 
address: andrea.bezjak@rmp.uhn.ca.

The lung parenchyma and adjacent tissues are one of the most common sites of 
metastatic disease. Traditionally, the approach to treatment of a patient with 
lung metastases has been with systemic therapy, with radiotherapy being reserved 
for palliative management of symptomatic disease. The concept of oligo 
metastatic disease has paved the way for more radical treatment options, 
administered either alone or as local consolidative therapy in addition to 
systemic treatment. The modern-day management of lung metastases is guided by a 
number of factors, including the number of lung metastases, extra-thoracic 
disease status, overall performance status, and life expectancy, which all help 
determine the goals of care. Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) has emerged 
as a safe and effective method in locally controlling lung metastases, in the 
oligo metastatic or oligo-recurrent setting. This article outlines the role of 
radiotherapy in multimodality management of lung metastases.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semradonc.2022.11.007
PMID: 36990634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to disclose.


599. J Geriatr Oncol. 2023 Apr;14(3):101475. doi: 10.1016/j.jgo.2023.101475. Epub
 2023 Mar 27.

The therapeutic dilemma of basal cell carcinoma in older adults: A review of the 
current literature.

Van Coile L(1), Verhaeghe E(1), Ongenae K(1), Destrooper L(2), Mohamadi Z(2), 
Brochez L(1), Hoorens I(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Ghent, Belgium; Cancer 
Research Institute Ghent (CRIG), Belgium.
(2)Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Ghent University, Belgium.
(3)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Ghent, Belgium; Cancer 
Research Institute Ghent (CRIG), Belgium. Electronic address: 
Isabelle.Hoorens@ugent.be.

Skin cancer is known to be a significant health care threat due to the massively 
increasing numbers of diagnoses. In 2019, 4 million basal cell carcinoma (BCC) 
cases were diagnosed globally, making BCC the most frequent of all cancers 
worldwide in fair skinned populations. Given the increasing life-expectancy for 
all countries worldwide (by 2050, the world's population of people aged 60 years 
and older will have doubled), the incidence of BCC is expected to keep 
increasing in the future. Management of BCCs is challenging, especially among 
older adults, as mortality due to BCCs is extremely rare, whereas locally 
destructive growth can cause significant morbidity in certain cases. Therapeutic 
management in this population is further hampered because of the presence of 
comorbidities, frailty, and the heterogeneity of these aspects in older 
patients, leading to treatment dilemmas. A literature review was conducted to 
identify relevant patient, tumour, and treatment related factors that should be 
considered in the decision making for BCC treatment in older adults. This 
narrative review synthesizes all aspects concerning BCC treatment in older 
adults and aims to make some specific suggestions considering BCC treatment in 
older adults that can be used in daily practice. We found that nodular BCC was 
found to be the most common subtype in older adults, most frequently located in 
the head and neck region. In non-facial BCCs, current literature has shown no 
significant impact on the quality of life (QoL) in older patients. Besides 
comorbidity scores, functional status should guide clinicians in treatment 
decisions. Taking all aspects into account when making treatment decisions is of 
great importance. When treating superficial BCCs on difficult-to-reach lesions 
in older adults, a clinician-administered treatment should be suggested because 
of possible impaired mobility in these patients. Based on current literature, we 
recommend assessing the comorbidities, the functional status, and frailty in 
older patients with BCC to evaluate life expectancy. In patients with low-risk 
BCCs and a limited life expectancy (LLE), an active surveillance or watchful 
waiting strategy can be suggested.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgo.2023.101475
PMID: 36990928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None declared.


600. Sci Rep. 2023 Mar 29;13(1):5111. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-32088-4.

Charlson comorbidity index applied to shunted idiopathic normal pressure 
hydrocephalus.

Klinge PM(#)(1), Ma KL(#)(2)(3), Leary OP(2), Sastry RA(2), Sayied S(2), Venegas 
O(4), Brinker T(5), Gokaslan ZL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Rhode Island Hospital, Warren Alpert Medical 
School of Brown University, 593 Eddy St, APC 6, Providence, RI, 02903, USA. 
petra_klinge@brown.edu.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Rhode Island Hospital, Warren Alpert Medical 
School of Brown University, 593 Eddy St, APC 6, Providence, RI, 02903, USA.
(3)Department of Surgery, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, University of New 
Mexico School of Medicine, Albuquerque, NM, 87131, USA.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Medical School Hannover, Hannover, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

A series of epidemiological studies have shown the limited life expectancy of 
patients suffering from idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH). In most 
cases, comorbid medical conditions are the cause of death, rather than iNPH. 
Though it has also been shown that shunting improves both life quality and 
lifetime. We sought to investigate the utility of the Charlson comorbidity index 
(CCI) for improved preoperative risk-benefit assessment of shunt surgery in 
individual iNPH cases. 208 shunted iNPH cases were prospectively investigated. 
Two in-person follow up visits at 3 and 12 months assessed postoperative 
clinical status. The correlation of the age adjusted CCI with survival was 
investigated over the median observation time of 2.37 years (IQR 1.16-4.15). 
Kaplan Meier statistics revealed that patients with a CCI score of 0-5 have a 
5-year survival rate of 87%, compared to only 55% in patients with CCI > 5. Cox 
multivariate statistics revealed that the CCI was an independent predictor of 
survival, while common preoperative iNPH scores (modified Rankin Scale (mRS), 
gait score, and continence score) are not. As expected, mRS, gait, and 
continence scores improved during the postoperative follow up period, though 
relative improvement on any of these was not predicted by baseline CCI. The CCI 
is an easily applicable preoperative predictor of survival time in shunted iNPH 
patients. The lack of a correlation between the CCI and functional outcome means 
that even patients with multiple comorbidities and limited remaining lifetime 
may appreciate benefit from shunt surgery.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-32088-4
PMCID: PMC10060378
PMID: 36991111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.601. Nature. 2023 Apr;616(7955):176-182. doi: 10.1038/s41586-023-05841-y. Epub
2023  Mar 29.

Basis of the H2AK119 specificity of the Polycomb repressive deubiquitinase.

Ge W(#)(1)(2), Yu C(#)(1)(2), Li J(#)(1)(2), Yu Z(1), Li X(1), Zhang Y(1), Liu 
CP(1), Li Y(1), Tian C(3), Zhang X(1)(2), Li G(1)(2), Zhu B(4)(5), Xu 
RM(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Division of Life Sciences and Anhui Provisional Engineering Laboratory of 
Peptide Drugs, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, China.
(4)National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. zhubing@ibp.ac.cn.
(5)School of Life Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
China. zhubing@ibp.ac.cn.
(6)National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. rmxu@ibp.ac.cn.
(7)School of Life Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
China. rmxu@ibp.ac.cn.
(8)Key Laboratory of Systems Health Science of Zhejiang Province, School of Life 
Science, Hangzhou Institute for Advanced Study, University of Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Hangzhou, China. rmxu@ibp.ac.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Repression of gene expression by protein complexes of the Polycomb group is a 
fundamental mechanism that governs embryonic development and cell-type 
specification1-3. The Polycomb repressive deubiquitinase (PR-DUB) complex 
removes the ubiquitin moiety from monoubiquitinated histone H2A K119 
(H2AK119ub1) on the nucleosome4, counteracting the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity 
of Polycomb repressive complex 1 (PRC1)5 to facilitate the correct silencing of 
genes by Polycomb proteins and safeguard active genes from inadvertent silencing 
by PRC1 (refs. 6-9). The intricate biological function of PR-DUB requires 
accurate targeting of H2AK119ub1, but PR-DUB can deubiquitinate 
monoubiquitinated free histones and peptide substrates indiscriminately; the 
basis for its exquisite nucleosome-dependent substrate specificity therefore 
remains unclear. Here we report the cryo-electron microscopy structure of human 
PR-DUB, composed of BAP1 and ASXL1, in complex with the chromatosome. We find 
that ASXL1 directs the binding of the positively charged C-terminal extension of 
BAP1 to nucleosomal DNA and histones H3-H4 near the dyad, an addition to its 
role in forming the ubiquitin-binding cleft. Furthermore, a conserved loop 
segment of the catalytic domain of BAP1 is situated near the H2A-H2B acidic 
patch. This distinct nucleosome-binding mode displaces the C-terminal tail of 
H2A from the nucleosome surface, and endows PR-DUB with the specificity for 
H2AK119ub1.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41586-023-05841-y
PMID: 36991118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Obes Surg. 2023 May;33(5):1356-1365. doi: 10.1007/s11695-023-06538-x. Epub
2023  Mar 29.

Nutritional Status of Vegetarian Patients Before and After Bariatric Surgery: a 
Monocentric Retrospective Observational Case-Control Study.

Phan A(1), Hage M(2), Zaharia R(2), Vigan M(3), Coursault S(2), Wilson S(2), 
Gabali E(2), Foussier L(2), Vychnevskaia K(4), Raffin-Sanson ML(2), Bretault 
M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, European Georges Pompidou Hospital, APHP, Paris, 
France.
(2)Department of Endocrinology-Nutrition, Ambroise Paré Hospital, AP-HP, EA4340 
Research Unit, Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines, University 
Paris-Saclay, 92100, Boulogne-Billancourt, France.
(3)Clinical Research Unit, AP-HP, Paris-Saclay, Hôpital Ambroise Pare, 
Boulogne-Billancourt, France.
(4)Department of Surgery and Oncology, Ambroise Paré Hospital, AP-HP, 
Boulogne-Billancourt, France.
(5)Department of Endocrinology-Nutrition, Ambroise Paré Hospital, AP-HP, EA4340 
Research Unit, Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines, University 
Paris-Saclay, 92100, Boulogne-Billancourt, France. marion.bretault@aphp.fr.

The obesity pandemic is associated with an increasing number of bariatric 
surgeries which allow improvement in obesity-related comorbidities and life 
expectancy but potentially induce nutritional deficiencies. Vegetarianism 
becomes more and more popular and exposes as well to vitamin and micronutrient 
deficiencies. Only one study has explored the impact of vegetarianism on the 
preoperative nutritional status of eligible patients for bariatric surgery, but 
none in postoperative care.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a retrospective case-control study in our 
cohort of bariatric patients, matching 5 omnivores for each vegetarian. We 
compared their biological profile regarding vitamin and micronutrient blood 
levels before and 3, 6, 12, and 30 months after surgery.
RESULTS: We included 7 vegetarians including 4 lacto-ovo-vegetarians (57%), 2 
lacto-vegetarians (29%), and one lacto-ovo-pesco-vegetarian (14%). Three years 
after surgery with equivalent daily standard vitamin supplementation, the two 
groups showed a similar biological profile including blood levels of ferritin 
(p = 0.6), vitamin B1 (p = 0.1), and B12 (p = 0.7), while the total median 
weight loss at 3 years was comparable (39.1% [27.0-46.6] in vegetarians vs 35.7% 
[10.5-46.5] in omnivores, p = 0.8). We observed no significant difference 
between vegetarians and omnivores before surgery regarding comorbidities and 
nutritional status.
CONCLUSION: It seems that, after bariatric surgery, vegetarian patients taking a 
standard vitamin supplementation do not show an increased risk of nutritional 
deficiencies compared to omnivores. However, a larger study with a longer 
follow-up is needed to confirm these data, including an evaluation of different 
types of vegetarianism such as veganism.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-023-06538-x
PMID: 36991254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Int J Behav Med. 2023 Mar 29. doi: 10.1007/s12529-023-10174-1. Online ahead
of  print.

Between- and Within-Couple Concordance for Health Behaviors Among Japanese Older 
Married Couples: Examining the Moderating Role of Working Time.

Harada K(1), Masumoto K(2), Okada S(2).

Author information:
(1)Active Aging Research Hub, Graduate School of Human Development and 
Environment, Kobe University, 3-11 Tsurukabuto, Nada, Kobe, 657-8501, Japan. 
harada@harbor.kobe-u.ac.jp.
(2)Active Aging Research Hub, Graduate School of Human Development and 
Environment, Kobe University, 3-11 Tsurukabuto, Nada, Kobe, 657-8501, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Although previous studies report spousal concordance for health 
behaviors at between-couple levels, concordance at within-couple levels remains 
unconfirmed. To clarify the behavioral mechanisms of spousal concordance for 
health behaviors among older couples at both levels, it is necessary to examine 
the moderators (effect modifiers) of spousal concordance. This study examined 
(1) whether spousal concordance for dietary variety, exercise behavior, and TV 
viewing behavior was observed at both the between-couple and the within-couple 
levels and (2) whether this spousal concordance was moderated by working time 
among older Japanese couples.
METHOD: This study analyzed data obtained from a questionnaire-based, three-wave 
longitudinal survey (baseline, 1-year follow-up, 3-year follow-up) among 210 
Japanese older couples. Each spouse's dietary variety, exercise time, TV viewing 
time, the couple's working time, and demographic factors were investigated by 
multi-level analyses.
RESULTS: One spouse's dietary variety and TV viewing time, but not exercise 
time, were significantly associated with the other spouse's corresponding 
behaviors at both levels. The regressions of the wife's TV viewing time on the 
husband's TV viewing time were moderated by working time at the within-couple 
level; the regressive effects of wife's TV viewing time on husband's TV viewing 
time were more relevant as working time was lower.
CONCLUSION: This study found that spousal concordance for dietary variety and TV 
viewing was observed at within-couple and between-couple levels among older 
Japanese couples. In addition, shorter working time partly moderates the wife's 
influence on the husband's TV viewing among older couples at the within-couple 
level.

© 2023. International Society of Behavioral Medicine.

DOI: 10.1007/s12529-023-10174-1
PMID: 36991277


604. J Physiol Sci. 2023 Mar 29;73(1):4. doi: 10.1186/s12576-023-00862-8.

Effects of gentle mechanical skin stimulation on subjective symptoms and joint 
range of motions in people with chronic neck and shoulder discomfort.

Watanabe N(1), Nara M(2), Suzuki S(3), Sugie M(4)(5), Yamamoto T(3), Hotta H(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Autonomic Neuroscience, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for 
Geriatrics and Gerontology, 35-2 Sakaecho, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo, 173-0015, Japan.
(2)Japanese Association for Healthy Life Expectancy, Tokyo, 173-0014, Japan.
(3)NHK (Japan Broadcasting Corporation), Tokyo, 150-8001, Japan.
(4)Oyama Kenko-no-Machi Clinic, Tokyo, 173-0014, Japan.
(5)Health Promotion Management Office, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for 
Geriatrics and Gerontology, Tokyo, 173-0015, Japan.
(6)Department of Autonomic Neuroscience, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for 
Geriatrics and Gerontology, 35-2 Sakaecho, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo, 173-0015, Japan. 
hhotta@tmig.or.jp.

This study aimed to examine the efficacy of a 2-week self-administered gentle 
mechanical skin stimulation on chronic neck and shoulder discomfort. In 
participants (n = 12) with chronic neck and shoulder discomfort, subjective 
measures of pain sensation, discomfort, and difficulty in moving using a visual 
analog scale (VAS, 0-10) and objective measures of 12 different joint range of 
motions (ROMs) for the cervical and shoulder regions, using a digital 
goniometer, were collected before and after self-care with contact acupuncture, 
called microcones. The self-care for 2 weeks significantly (p < 0.001) decreased 
all VAS scores to 2.2-2.3 from baseline values of 6.0-7.4. Of the 12 ROMs 
tested, 8 were significantly increased (p < 0.013). This open-label study 
suggests the use of self-care with microcones in improving subjective symptoms 
and joint ROMs in people suffering from chronic neck and shoulder discomfort. 
However, a randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trial is needed to 
further investigate the efficacy and safety of microcones.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12576-023-00862-8
PMID: 36991326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Vaccines (Basel). 2023 Mar 6;11(3):601. doi: 10.3390/vaccines11030601.

Ethical Challenges Involved in COVID-19 Vaccine Mandates for Children: A 
Systematic Review.

Alahmad G(1).

Author information:
(1)King Abdullah International Medical Research Center (KAIMRC), King Saud Bin 
Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences, Riyadh 11481, Saudi Arabia.

The new COVID-19 pandemic has affected day-to-day life, creating various ethical 
dilemmas. COVID-19 vaccination is seen as an effective way to halt the pandemic. 
Ethical challenges can arise when the vaccines are mandated for all ages, but 
more so when mandated for children. This systematic review discusses the pros 
and cons of the COVID-19 vaccine mandate for children. The primary objective of 
this study is to summarize exclusively the various ethical conflicts, impacts, 
and requirements that arise as a result of the COVID-19 vaccine mandate laws on 
children. The secondary objective is to analyze the reasons for parents refusing 
to allow their children to be given the COVID-19 vaccine sand the effective 
strategies to increase vaccine uptake among children. The study involved a 
systematic review, identification of relevant literature and reviews following 
the PRISMA-ScR recommendations. The keywords 'COVID-19 vaccine mandates on 
children' were used to mine the literature from PubMed and WHO COVID-19 Research 
Database. Limitations placed on the original searches were: English language, 
humans, ethics, and children. Out of 529 studies, only 13 satisfied the 
selection criteria. The sample included studies with a wide, diverse range of 
methods, settings, research, authors, and journals. COVID-19 vaccine mandates on 
children need to be scrutinized. Implementing the COVID-19 vaccination drive in 
a scientific way is acceptable. As children are the fastest-growing population 
and have the highest life expectancy, it is important to take into account that 
the vaccines do not disturb their growth and development.

DOI: 10.3390/vaccines11030601
PMCID: PMC10052847
PMID: 36992185

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


606. Front Public Health. 2023 Mar 9;11:1172636. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1172636.
 eCollection 2023.

Erratum: On the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on mortality: Lost years or 
lost days?

Frontiers Production Office.

Erratum for
    Front Public Health. 2022 Nov 09;10:1015501.

[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.1015501.].

Copyright © 2023 Frontiers Production Office.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1172636
PMCID: PMC10042073
PMID: 36992888


607. J Family Med Prim Care. 2022 Nov;11(11):7328-7334. doi: 
10.4103/jfmpc.jfmpc_1377_22. Epub 2022 Dec 16.

Community-based appraisal of menopause-specific health problems and quality of 
life among women of rural Western Maharashtra.

Sheereen F(1), Kadarkar KS(1).

Author information:
(1)Associate Professor, Department of Community Medicine, Rural Medical College, 
PIMS-DU, Loni, Maharashtra, India.

BACKGROUND: Menopause is an important hormonal transition of women's lifespan 
which can strike as early as 30-35 years of age. Menopause-specific quality of 
life (MENQoL) mainly depends upon awareness, frequency, and intensity of 
menopausal symptoms; sociocultural, lifestyle, and dietary factors; and 
availability of health services specifically focusing on these issues. As life 
expectancy increases, women have to spend more years after menopause. So 
menopause specific quality of life will be a major issue of concern in the near 
future. The aim of this study was to assess the post-menopausal symptoms and 
quality of life (QoL) amongst post-menopausal women and their association with 
various sociodemographic factors.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A community-based, descriptive, cross-sectional study was 
undertaken at Sakuri village among 100 postmenopausal women. Information was 
collected using MENQoL questionnaire. Unpaired t-test and Chi-squared test were 
used.
RESULTS: The mean age of participants and menopause was 51.8 ± 4.54 years and 
46.42 ± 4.13 years, respectively. The major symptoms reported were hot flushes 
(70%), under accomplishment (100%), bloating (100%), decrease in physical 
strength (95%), and change in sexual desire (78%). Statistically significant 
association was found between age and psychosocial domain. QoL was associated 
with age and educational level.
CONCLUSION: More than half of the participants had poor QoL for all four 
domains. Awareness about post-menopausal changes and available treatment 
modalities can improve QoL. Accessible and affordable gynaecological and 
psychiatric health services through channel of primary health care are necessary 
to alleviate these complaints.

Copyright: © 2022 Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care.

DOI: 10.4103/jfmpc.jfmpc_1377_22
PMCID: PMC10041302
PMID: 36993095

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


608. Ecol Evol. 2023 Mar 27;13(3):e9934. doi: 10.1002/ece3.9934. eCollection 2023
 Mar.

Effect of MHC and inbreeding on disassortative reproduction: A data revisit, 
extension and inclusion of fertilization in sand lizards.

Bererhi B(1), Duchesne P(2), Schwartz TS(3), Ujvari B(4), Wapstra E(5), Olsson 
M(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences University of Gothenburg 
Gothenburg Sweden.
(2)Department of Biology Laval University Quebec Québec Canada.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences Auburn University Auburn Alabama USA.
(4)School of Life and Environmental Sciences, Centre for Integrative Ecology 
Deakin University Waurn Ponds Victoria Australia.
(5)School of Natural Sciences University of Tasmania Hobart Tasmania Australia.
(6)School of Biological Sciences University of Wollongong Wollongong New South 
Wales Australia.

The harmful effects of close inbreeding have been recognized for centuries and, 
with the rise of Mendelian genetics, was realized to be an effect of 
homozygosis. This historical background led to great interest in ways to 
quantify inbreeding, its depression effects on the phenotype and flow-on effects 
on mate choice and other aspects of behavioral ecology. The mechanisms and cues 
used to avoid inbreeding are varied and include major histocompatibility complex 
(MHC) molecules and the peptides they transport as predictors of the degree of 
genetic relatedness. Here, we revisit and complement data from a Swedish 
