547. Antioxidants (Basel). 2023 Mar 18;12(3):746. doi: 10.3390/antiox12030746.

Plant-Based Antioxidants for Prevention and Treatment of Neurodegenerative 
Diseases: Phytotherapeutic Potential of Laurus nobilis, Aronia melanocarpa, and 
Celastrol.

Pilipović K(1), Jurišić Grubešić R(1), Dolenec P(1), Kučić N(2), Juretić L(1), 
Mršić-Pelčić J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Rijeka, HR-51000 Rijeka, Croatia.
(2)Department of Physiology and Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Rijeka, HR-51000 Rijeka, Croatia.

With the progress of medicine, especially in the last century, life expectancy 
increased considerably. As a result, age-related diseases also increased, 
especially malignancies and degenerative diseases of the central nervous system. 
The incidence and prevalence of neurodegenerative diseases steadily increased 
over the years, but despite efforts to uncover the pathophysiological processes 
behind these conditions, they remain elusive. Among the many theories, oxidative 
stress was proposed to be involved in neurodegenerative processes and to play an 
important role in the morbidity and progression of various neurodegenerative 
disorders. Accordingly, a number of studies discovered the potential of natural 
plant constituents to have significant antioxidant activity. This review focused 
on several plant-based antioxidants that showed promising results in the 
prevention and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Laurus nobilis, Aronia 
melanocarpa, and celastrol, a chemical compound isolated from the root extracts 
of Tripterygium wilfordii and T. regelii, are all known to be rich in 
antioxidant polyphenols.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox12030746
PMCID: PMC10045087
PMID: 36978994

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


548. Antioxidants (Basel). 2023 Mar 20;12(3):755. doi: 10.3390/antiox12030755.

Biodegradable Active Packaging Enriched with Essential Oils for Enhancing the 
Shelf Life of Strawberries.

Rusková M(1), Opálková Šišková A(2)(3), Mosnáčková K(2), Gago C(4), Guerreiro 
A(5), Bučková M(1), Puškárová A(1), Pangallo D(1), Antunes MD(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Dúbravská cesta 
21, 845 51 Bratislava, Slovakia.
(2)Polymer Institute of Slovak Academy of Sciences, Dúbravská cesta 9, 845 41 
Bratislava, Slovakia.
(3)Institute of Materials and Machine Mechanics, Slovak Academy of Sciences, 
Dúbravská cesta 9, 845 13 Bratislava, Slovakia.
(4)Mediterranean Institute for Agriculture, Environment and Development & 
CHANGE-Global Change and Sustainability Institute, FCT, Universidade do Algarve, 
edf. 8, Campus de Gambelas, 8005-139 Faro, Portugal.
(5)Centre for Electronics, Optoelectronics and Telecommunications, FCT, 
Universidade do Algarve, edf. 8, Campus de Gambelas, 8005-139 Faro, Portugal.

The strawberry (Fragaria ananassa) is a nutrient-rich fruit with high content of 
health-beneficial compounds. However, strawberries are susceptible to mechanical 
damage and microbiological contamination which can cause changes in fruit 
sensory properties. These changes consequently effect on ripening and shelf life 
of the strawberry. In recent years, essential oils (EOs) have been famous for 
their antimicrobial and antioxidant properties and are promising ecological 
alternatives to chemical antimicrobial substances. Nowadays, active packaging is 
one of several techniques developed for slowing down the metabolic processes of 
fresh fruits. Poly(lactic acid) (PLA) is one of the several polymers suitable 
for encapsulation EOs, whereas at the same time represent non-toxic, 
biodegradable, and compostable polymer derived from renewable resources. 
Suitable packaging prolongs the shelf life of fruit, keeps the products at the 
highest possible nutrition level, improves quality, and attracts customer 
attention. In the current study, we encapsulated EOs (lemongrass and oregano) 
into a PLA and poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB) packaging film and explored their 
antimicrobial and antioxidant properties. Moreover, biochemical and quality 
parameters for strawberry preservation and shelf-life extension were also 
assessed. Our tested active packaging film with EOs was proven to be useful for 
postharvest quality maintenance and shelf-life extension of strawberries, with 
PLA/PHB/ATBC + 5% lemongrass EO being slightly better than PLA/PHB/ATBC + 5% 
oregano EO.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox12030755
PMCID: PMC10044849
PMID: 36979002

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


549. Brain Sci. 2023 Mar 21;13(3):518. doi: 10.3390/brainsci13030518.

Novel Approaches to Memory and Aging: The Editorial.

Padulo C(1), Fairfield B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Humanities, University of Naples, Federico II, 80133 Naples, 
Italy.

Heightened average life expectancy, which is increasing the number of older 
adults destined to live alone in the future, is forcing society to acknowledge 
the strong positive correlation between health costs and age [...].

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci13030518
PMCID: PMC10046762
PMID: 36979328

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


550. Biomolecules. 2023 Mar 5;13(3):478. doi: 10.3390/biom13030478.

Caenorhabditis elegans as a Model System to Study Human Neurodegenerative 
Disorders.

Roussos A(1), Kitopoulou K(1), Borbolis F(1)(2), Palikaras K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Medical School, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, GR-157 27 Athens, Greece.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Padova, 35100 Padova, Italy.

In recent years, advances in science and technology have improved our quality of 
life, enabling us to tackle diseases and increase human life expectancy. 
However, longevity is accompanied by an accretion in the frequency of 
age-related neurodegenerative diseases, creating a growing burden, with 
pervasive social impact for human societies. The cost of managing such chronic 
disorders and the lack of effective treatments highlight the need to decipher 
their molecular and genetic underpinnings, in order to discover new therapeutic 
targets. In this effort, the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans serves as a 
powerful tool to recapitulate several disease-related phenotypes and provides a 
highly malleable genetic model that allows the implementation of 
multidisciplinary approaches, in addition to large-scale genetic and 
pharmacological screens. Its anatomical transparency allows the use of 
co-expressed fluorescent proteins to track the progress of neurodegeneration. 
Moreover, the functional conservation of neuronal processes, along with the high 
homology between nematode and human genomes, render C. elegans extremely 
suitable for the study of human neurodegenerative disorders. This review 
describes nematode models used to study neurodegeneration and underscores their 
contribution in the effort to dissect the molecular basis of human diseases and 
identify novel gene targets with therapeutic potential.

DOI: 10.3390/biom13030478
PMCID: PMC10046667
PMID: 36979413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


551. Biomedicines. 2023 Mar 16;11(3):919. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines11030919.

Immunization with Neural-Derived Peptides in Neurodegenerative Diseases: A 
Narrative Review.

Monroy GR(1), Murguiondo Pérez R(1), Weintraub Ben Zión E(1), Vidal 
Alcántar-Garibay O(1), Loza-López EC(1), Tejerina Marion E(1), Blancarte 
Hernández E(1), Navarro-Torres L(1), Ibarra A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigación en Ciencias de la Salud (CICSA), FCS, Universidad 
Anáhuac México, Huixquilucan 52786, Mexico.
(2)Neuroimmunology Department, Proyecto CAMINA A.C., Ciudad de México 14370, 
Mexico.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) are a major health problem worldwide. 
Statistics suggest that in America in 2030 there will be more than 12 million 
people suffering from a neurodegenerative pathology. Furthermore, the increase 
in life expectancy enhances the importance of finding new and better therapies 
for these pathologies. NDDs could be classified into chronic or acute, depending 
on the time required for the development of clinical symptoms and brain 
degeneration. Nevertheless, both chronic and acute stages share a common immune 
and inflammatory pathway in their pathophysiology. Immunization with 
neural-derived peptides (INDP) is a novel therapy that has been studied during 
the last decade. By inoculating neural-derived peptides obtained from the 
central nervous system (CNS), this therapy aims to boost protective 
autoimmunity, an autoreactive response that leads to a protective phenotype that 
produces a healing environment and neuroregeneration instead of causing damage. 
INDP has shown promising findings in studies performed either in vitro, in vivo 
or even in some pre-clinical trials of different NDDs, standing as a potentially 
beneficial therapy. In this review, we will describe some of the studies in 
which the effect of INDP strategies have been explored in different (chronic and 
acute) neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines11030919
PMCID: PMC10046177
PMID: 36979898

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


552. Children (Basel). 2023 Mar 8;10(3):526. doi: 10.3390/children10030526.

Acute Coronary Syndrome Treated with Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in 
Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria.

De Simone L(1), Chiellino S(1), Spaziani G(1), Porcedda G(1), Calabri GB(1), 
Berti S(2), Favilli S(1), Stefani L(3), Santoro G(4).

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Cardiology, "Meyer" Children's Hospital, University of Florence, 
Viale Pieraccini, 24, 50139 Florence, Italy.
(2)Interventional Cardiology, "Heart Hospital", National Research 
Council-Tuscany Foundation "G. Monasterio", 54100 Massa, Italy.
(3)Sports Medicine Center, Clinical and Experimental Department, University of 
Florence, 50134 Florence, Italy.
(4)Pediatric Cardiology and GUCH Unit, "Heart Hospital", National Research 
Council-Tuscany Foundation "G. Monasterio", 54100 Massa, Italy.

Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome is an extremely rare genetic disease caused 
by a de novo mutation in the LMNA gene, leading to an accumulation of a form of 
Lamin A, called Progerin, which results in a typical phenotype and a marked 
decrease in life expectancy, due to early atherosclerosis and cardiovascular 
disease. We report the case of a fourteen-year-old Chinese boy with 
Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome admitted to the emergency room because of 
precordial pain. Physical examination showed tachycardia 130 beats/min and 
arterial hypertension: 170/120 mmHg, normal respiratory rate, no neurological 
impairment; ECG evidenced sinus tachycardia, left ventricular hypertrophy, 
horizontal ST-segment depression in I, aVL, II, III, aVF leads, and V4-V6 and 
ST-segment elevation in aVR and V1 leads. Echocardiography highlighted preserved 
global left ventricular function with concentric hypertrophy, altered diastolic 
flow pattern, mitral valve insufficiency, and minimal aortic regurgitation. 
Blood tests evidenced an increase in high-sensitivity troponin T level (335 
pg/mL). NSTEMI diagnosis was performed, and the patient was admitted to the 
intensive care unit. A coronary CT angiography showed a severe obstruction of 
the common trunk of the left coronary artery, for which an urgent percutaneous 
coronary intervention (PCI) was proposed. A selective coronary angiography 
imaged complete chronic occlusion of the left main coronary artery as well as 
severe stenosis at the origin of a very enlarged right coronary artery that 
vascularized the left coronary artery through collaterals. Afterwards, the right 
coronary artery was probed using an Amplatz right (AR1) guiding catheter, 
through which a large 3.5 mm drug-eluting coronary stent (Xience Sierra, Abbott, 
Abbott Park, IL, USA) was implanted. At the end of the procedure, no residual 
stenosis was imaged and improved vascularization of the left coronary artery 
distribution segments was observed. Dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) consisting 
of aspirin (75 mg daily) and clopidogrel (37.5 mg daily) and anti-hypertensive 
therapy were started. At the one-year follow-up, the patient had not reported 
any occurrence of anginal chest pain.

DOI: 10.3390/children10030526
PMCID: PMC10047036
PMID: 36980084

Conflict of interest statement: G.S. is Proctor of Abbott, Italy, WL Gore, Italy 
and Occlutech, Italy.


553. Cells. 2023 Mar 16;12(6):915. doi: 10.3390/cells12060915.

Emerging Therapeutic Approaches to Target the Dark Side of Senescent Cells: New 
Hopes to Treat Aging as a Disease and to Delay Age-Related Pathologies.

Khalil R(1), Diab-Assaf M(2), Lemaitre JM(1).

Author information:
(1)IRMB, University Montpellier, INSERM, 34090 Montpellier, France.
(2)Fanar Faculty of Sciences II, Lebanese University, Beirut P.O. Box 90656, 
Lebanon.

Life expectancy has drastically increased over the last few decades worldwide, 
with important social and medical burdens and costs. To stay healthy longer and 
to avoid chronic disease have become essential issues. Organismal aging is a 
complex process that involves progressive destruction of tissue functionality 
and loss of regenerative capacity. One of the most important aging hallmarks is 
cellular senescence, which is a stable state of cell cycle arrest that occurs in 
response to cumulated cell stresses and damages. Cellular senescence is a 
physiological mechanism that has both beneficial and detrimental consequences. 
Senescence limits tumorigenesis, lifelong tissue damage, and is involved in 
different biological processes, such as morphogenesis, regeneration, and wound 
healing. However, in the elderly, senescent cells increasingly accumulate in 
several organs and secrete a combination of senescence associated factors, 
contributing to the development of various age-related diseases, including 
cancer. Several studies have revealed major molecular pathways controlling the 
senescent phenotype, as well as the ones regulating its interactions with the 
immune system. Attenuating the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) 
or eliminating senescent cells have emerged as attractive strategies aiming to 
reverse or delay the onset of aging diseases. Here, we review current 
senotherapies designed to suppress the deleterious effect of SASP by 
senomorphics or to selectively kill senescent cells by "senolytics" or by immune 
system-based approaches. These recent investigations are promising as radical 
new controls of aging pathologies and associated multimorbidities.

DOI: 10.3390/cells12060915
PMCID: PMC10047596
PMID: 36980256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of Interest.


554. Genes (Basel). 2023 Feb 26;14(3):594. doi: 10.3390/genes14030594.

Considerations of the Genetic Background of Obesity among Patients with 
Psoriasis.

Czarnecka A(1), Purzycka-Bohdan D(1), Zabłotna M(1), Bohdan M(2), Nowicki RJ(1), 
Szczerkowska-Dobosz A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Allergology, Medical University of 
Gdansk, 80-210 Gdansk, Poland.
(2)First Department of Cardiology, Medical University of Gdansk, 80-210 Gdansk, 
Poland.

Psoriasis comorbidities may emerge from pleiotropic mechanisms, including common 
proinflammatory pathways, cellular mediators or genetic predisposition. Obesity 
is considered to be an independent risk factor of psoriasis, which may influence 
the severity of the disease and its early onset, decrease patients' quality of 
life, alter response to psoriasis therapies and affect morbidity by reduced life 
expectancy due to cardiovascular events. Although novel approaches, including 
genetic techniques, have provided a wide range of new research, there are still 
scarce studies elaborating on the common genetic background of psoriasis and 
obesity. The aim of this study was to present and evaluate a possible common 
genetic background of psoriasis and concomitant increased body mass based on the 
review of the available literature.

DOI: 10.3390/genes14030594
PMCID: PMC10048146
PMID: 36980866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


555. Healthcare (Basel). 2023 Mar 8;11(6):799. doi: 10.3390/healthcare11060799.

Rehabilitation after Hip Fracture Surgery: A Survey on Italian Physiotherapists' 
Knowledge and Adherence to Evidence-Based Practice.

Santacaterina F(1)(2), Miccinilli S(1)(2), Sterzi S(1)(2), Bressi F(1)(2), Bravi 
M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Research Unit of Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine, Department of Medicine 
and Surgery, Università Campus Bio-Medico di Roma, Via Alvaro del Portillo, 21, 
00128 Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine, Fondazione Policlinico 
Universitario Campus Bio-Medico, Via Alvaro del Portillo, 200, 00128 Rome, 
Italy.

The average life expectancy of the Italian population has increased over the 
last decades, with a consequent increase in the demand for healthcare. 
Rehabilitation after hip fracture surgery is essential for autonomy, recovery, 
and reintegration into the social context. The aim of this study was to 
determine the level of knowledge and adherence to the recent treatment 
recommendations of the Italian physiotherapists. A web-based survey, composed of 
21 items, was conducted and the frequencies and percentages of the responses 
were analyzed to evaluate if there was an integration and adherence to the 
recommendations of greater than 70%, with respect to the desired response. A 
total of 392 responses were collected and analyzed. Recommendations regarding 
the multidisciplinary approach, early mobilization, and progressive muscle 
strength training, achieved the desired value in the inpatient setting. 
Intensive rehabilitation and full weight bearing did not reach the threshold 
values. The results of this survey show a partial integration of the 
recommendations for rehabilitation after hip fracture surgery by Italian 
physiotherapists. Adherence seems to be better in the inpatient setting and with 
physiotherapists with higher levels of education.

DOI: 10.3390/healthcare11060799
PMCID: PMC10048225
PMID: 36981456

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


556. Healthcare (Basel). 2023 Mar 22;11(6):925. doi: 10.3390/healthcare11060925.

Mortality Evaluation and Life Expectancy Prediction of Patients with 
Hepatocellular Carcinoma with Data Mining.

Liu CY(1), Cheng CY(2), Yang SY(3), Chai JW(1)(4)(5), Chen WH(6), Chang 
PY(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, Taichung 407, 
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, National Taipei 
University of Technology, Taipei 106, Taiwan.
(3)Nursing Department, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, Taichung 407, Taiwan.
(4)Section of Radiology, College of Medicine, China Medical University, Taichung 
404, Taiwan.
(5)College of Medicine, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402, Taiwan.
(6)Institute of Business & Management, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, 
Taipei 100, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Industrial Engineering and Enterprise Information, Tunghai 
University, Taichung 407, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The complexity of systemic variables and comorbidities makes it 
difficult to determine the best treatment for patients with hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC). It is impossible to perform a multidimensional evaluation of 
every patient, but the development of guidelines based on analyses of said 
complexities would be the next best option. Whereas conventional statistics are 
often inadequate for developing multivariate predictive models, data mining has 
proven more capable. Patients, methods and findings: Clinical profiles and 
treatment responses of 537 patients diagnosed with Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer 
stages B and C from 2009 to 2019 were retrospectively analyzed using 4 decision 
tree algorithms. A combination of 19 treatments, 7 biomarkers, and 4 states of 
hepatitis was tested to determine which combinations would result in survival 
times greater than a year in duration. Just 2 of the algorithms produced 
complete models through single trees, which made them only the ones suitable for 
clinical judgement. A combination of alpha fetoprotein ≤210.5 mcg/L, glutamic 
oxaloacetic transaminase ≤1.13 µkat/L, and total bilirubin ≤ 0.0283 mmol/L was 
shown to be a good predictor of survival >1 year, and the most effective 
treatments for such patients were radio-frequency ablation (RFA) and 
transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) with radiation therapy (RT). In patients 
without this combination, the best treatments were RFA, TACE with RT and 
targeted drug therapy, and TACE with targeted drug therapy and immunotherapy. 
The main limitation of this study was its small sample. With a small sample 
size, we may have developed a less reliable model system, failing to produce any 
clinically important results or outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Data mining can produce models to help clinicians predict survival 
time at the time of initial HCC diagnosis and then choose the most suitable 
treatment.

DOI: 10.3390/healthcare11060925
PMCID: PMC10048888
PMID: 36981582

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


557. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Mar 8;20(6):4793. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20064793.

Handheld Raman Spectroscopy in the First UK Home Office Licensed Pharmacist-Led 
Community Drug Checking Service.

Mullin A(1), Scott M(1), Vaccaro G(1), Gittins R(2), Ferla S(3), Schifano F(1), 
Guirguis A(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical, Pharmaceutical and Biological Science, School of Life 
and Medical Sciences, University of Hertfordshire, Hatfield AL10 9AB, UK.
(2)Clinical Department, WDP-Westminster Drug Project, 18 Dartmouth St., London 
SW1H 9BL, UK.
(3)Pharmacy, Medical School, The Grove Extension, Swansea University, Swansea 
SA2 8PP, UK.

Across the world, the interest in point-of-care drug checking as a 
harm-reduction intervention is growing. This is an attempt to improve 
intelligence about current drug trends and reduce drug-related morbidity and 
mortality. In the UK, drug-related harm is increasing exponentially year after 
year. As such, specialist community treatment services are exploring new methods 
to improve engagement with people who use drugs (PWUD), who may require support 
for their problematic drug use. This need has driven the requirement to pilot an 
on-site, time-responsive, readily available drug-checking service at 
point-of-support centres. In this study, we piloted the UK's first Home 
Office-licensed drug-checking service that was embedded into a community 
substance-misuse service and had all on-site analysis and harm-reduction 
interventions led and delivered by pharmacists. We report on the laboratory 
findings from the associated confirmatory analysis (UHPLC-MS, GC-MS, and 1H NMR) 
to assess the performance of the on-site hand-held Raman spectrometer and 
outline the challenges of providing real-time analysis of psychoactive 
substances in a clinical setting. Whilst acknowledging the limitation of the 
small sample size (n = 13), we demonstrate the potential suitability of using 
this technology for the purposes of screening substances in community-treatment 
services. Portability of equipment and timeliness of results are important and 
only very small samples may be provided by people who use the service. The 
challenges of accurately identifying substances from complex mixtures were 
equally found with both point-of-care Raman spectroscopy and laboratory 
confirmatory-analysis techniques. Further studies are required to confirm these 
findings.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20064793
PMCID: PMC10049009
PMID: 36981705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


558. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Mar 10;20(6):4893. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20064893.

Adherence to the Mediterranean Diet Related to the Health Related and Well-Being 
Outcomes of European Mature Adults and Elderly, with an Additional Reference to 
Croatia.

Maltarić M(1), Ruščić P(2), Kolak M(3), Bender DV(4), Kolarić B(1), Ćorić T(1), 
Hoejskov PS(5), Bošnir J(1), Kljusurić JG(2).

Author information:
(1)Andrija Štampar Teaching Institute of Public Health, Mirogojska 16, 10000 
Zagreb, Croatia.
(2)Faculty of Food Technology and Biotechnology, University of Zagreb, 
Pierottijeva 6, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia.
(3)School of Medicine, University of Zagreb, Šalata 2, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia.
(4)Unit of Clinical Nutrition, Department of Internal Medicine, University 
Hospital Centre Zagreb, Kišpatićeva 12, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia.
(5)WHO Health Emergencies Programme, World Health Organization Regional Office 
for Europe, UN City, Marmorvej 51, DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark.

With the increase in life expectancy, expectation of a longer healthy life is 
also increasing. Importance of consumption of certain foods is confirmed to have 
a strong effect on quality of life. One of the healthiest dietary patterns 
consistently associated with a range of beneficial health outcomes is the 
Mediterranean diet (MD). The aim of this study was to assess MD adherence in the 
population over 50 years of age, in Europe, with special reference to Croatia, 
and to assess regional differences and investigate the association with 
health-related indicators (disease incidence, body mass index (BMI), grip 
strength measure, control, autonomy, self-realization, and pleasure scale 
(CASP-12)). This research uses data from the SHARE project for the population 
over 50 years of age. The frequency of individual responses was analyzed 
(frequencies, cross tables, and appropriate tests of significance, depending on 
the data set), and logistic regression was used to connect adherence to the 
Mediterranean diet with health indicators. The results of the study indicate a 
positive correlation between adherence to the principles of the Mediterranean 
diet with CASP and self-perception of health, which the followers of the MD 
pattern predominantly rate as "very good" or "excellent" (37.05%) what is 
significantly different (p < 0.05) from individuals which do not follow the 
patterns of MD (21.55%). The regression models indicate significant changes in 
the measure of maximum grip strength also among MD followers (ORMEDIUM = 1.449; 
ORHIGH = 1.293). Data for EU countries are also classified by regions (Central 
and Eastern; Northern, Southern and Western Europe), additionally allocating 
Croatia, and the trends in meat, fish and egg consumption showed the greatest 
differences for Croatian participants (39.6% twice a week) versus participants 
from four European regions. Data for Croatia deviates from the European average 
also in terms of the proportion of overweight and obese persons in all observed 
age groups, of which the largest proportion is in the 50-64 age group (normal 
BMI: only 30.3%). This study extended the currently available literature 
covering 27 European countries, placing the findings in a wider geographical 
context. The Mediterranean diet has once again proven to be an important factor 
related to health-related behavior. The presented results are extremely 
important for public health services, indicating possible critical factors in 
preserving the health of the population over 50 years old.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20064893
PMCID: PMC10049455
PMID: 36981801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


559. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Mar 10;20(6):4938. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20064938.

Multimodal Physical Exercise and Functional Rehabilitation Program in 
Oncological Patients with Cancer-Related Fatigue-A Randomized Clinical Trial.

Fernandez-Rodriguez EJ(1)(2), Sanchez-Gomez C(2)(3), Mendez-Sanchez R(1)(2), 
Recio-Rodriguez JI(1)(2), Puente-Gonzalez AS(1)(2), Gonzalez-Sanchez J(1)(2), 
Cruz-Hernandez JJ(2)(4)(5), Rihuete-Galve MI(1)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing and Physiotherapy, University of Salamanca, 37007 
Salamanca, Spain.
(2)Instituto de Investigación Biomédica de Salamanca (IBSAL), 37007 Salamanca, 
Spain.
(3)Department of Developmental and Educational Psychology, University of 
Salamanca, 37005 Salamanca, Spain.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Salamanca, 37007 Salamanca, Spain.
(5)Medical Oncology Unit, University Hospital of Salamanca, 37007 Salamanca, 
Spain.

The increase in life expectancy and survival time implies an increase in the 
possible side-effects of pharmacological treatments in patients. Cancer-related 
fatigue is one of these side-effects. The main objective of this study was to 
evaluate the effects of a multimodal program of physical exercise and functional 
rehabilitation on asthenia, pain, functional capacity, and quality of life in 
cancer patients with cancer-related fatigue.
METHODS: This was a randomized, parallel-controlled clinical trial, with two 
arms (experimental and control group), and it was conducted over the course of a 
year in the Oncology Hospitalization Unit at the University Hospital of 
Salamanca, Spain. Participants (n = 48) were assessed at three points during the 
study. The first assessment was prior to hospital discharge, the second 
assessment was after 15 days, and the final assessment was at one month 
post-hospital follow-up. The intervention lasted one month. The main variables 
studied were the dependency levels (Barthel), cancer-related fatigue (FACT-An), 
health-related quality of life (EuroQoL-5D), functional capacity (SPPB), and 
kinesiophobia (TSK-F).
RESULTS: Sample size (n = 44). Mean age 63.46 ± 12.36 years. Significant 
differences between control and experimental group participants in Barthel, 
FACT-An, TSK-F, and SPPB scores at follow-up and final assessment.
CONCLUSIONS: There are beneficial effects of a multimodal physical exercise and 
functional rehabilitation program in improving the autonomy of cancer-related 
fatigue patients.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20064938
PMCID: PMC10049732
PMID: 36981846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


560. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Mar 12;20(6):4989. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20064989.

Arsenic Elevated Groundwater Irrigation: Farmers' Perception of Rice and 
Vegetable Contamination in a Naturally Arsenic Endemic Area.

Rokonuzzaman M(1)(2), Ye Z(3), Wu C(1)(4), Li WC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Science and Environmental Studies, The Education University of 
Hong Kong, Tai Po, Hong Kong SAR 999077, China.
(2)Department of Agricultural Extension Education, Sylhet Agricultural 
University, Sylhet 3100, Bangladesh.
(3)School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510006, China.
(4)School of Metallurgy and Environment, Central South University, Changsha 
410083, China.

Arsenic (As) in groundwater and its accumulation in agricultural produces has 
caused serious threats to human health. The majority of current research on As 
mainly focuses on the technical aspects while bypassing the social perspectives. 
Farmers are the prime stakeholders as well as executors of agricultural 
strategies, and their adaptation largely depends on how they perceive the risk 
for which a mitigation strategy is proposed. This study aims to explore how rice 
and vegetable farmers perceive As accumulation in their rice and vegetables as 
well as explore current crop- and body-loading status, the subsequent health 
consequences of As, and alleviation possibilities with mitigation strategies and 
to investigate if there is an association between their socioeconomic status and 
their level of perception. Results reveal that one-fourth of the farmers gave a 
positive message regarding the As-contamination scenario in rice and vegetables. 
Although 10 farmers' socioeconomic characteristics were positively significant, 
distinctive emphasis should be given to five predictor variables explaining 88% 
variances: knowledge, direct participation in farming, information sources used, 
participant education, and organizational participation. Path analysis depicts 
that direct participation in farming presents the highest positive total effect 
(0.855) and direct effect (0.503), whereas information sources show the highest 
positive indirect effect (0.624). The mean As content in all five locations was 
statistically significant at the 5%, 5%, 0.1%, 1%, and 1% probability levels in 
scalp hairs, rice, vegetables, soils, and irrigation water, respectively. The 
first principal component (PC1) explains 92.5% of the variation. Significant 
variations were primarily explained by As levels in irrigation water, rice 
grain, and soil. Farmers' perception is far behind the actual field status of As 
level and its transfer. Therefore, intensified priorities should be administered 
on the farmers' characteristics contributing to variances in perception. The 
findings can be utilized for policy formulation in all As-endemic nations. More 
multidisciplinary research can be undertaken on farmers' attitude towards 
adopting As-mitigation techniques, with a focus on the socioeconomic position 
found to influence farmers' perceptions.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20064989
PMCID: PMC10049387
PMID: 36981898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


561. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Mar 13;20(6):5049. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20065049.

The Impact of Medical Nutrition Intervention on the Management of 
Hyperphosphatemia in Hemodialysis Patients with Stage 5 Chronic Kidney Disease: 
A Case Series.

Moroșan E(1), Popovici V(2), Elian V(3)(4), Dărăban AM(5), Rusu AI(5), Licu 
M(6), Mititelu M(1), Karampelas O(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory and Food Safety, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 6 Traian Vuia Street, 020945 
Bucharest, Romania.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Dental Medicine, 
Ovidius University of Constanta, 7 Ilarie Voronca Street, 900684 Constanta, 
Romania.
(3)Department of Diabetes, Nutrition and Metabolic Diseases, "Carol Davila" 
University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 8 Eroii Sanitari Blvd, 050471 Bucharest, 
Romania.
(4)Department of Diabetes, Nutrition and Metabolic Diseases, "Prof. Dr. N. C. 
Paulescu" National Institute of Diabetes, Nutrition and Metabolic Diseases, 
030167 Bucharest, Romania.
(5)Faculty of Pharmacy, "Vasile Goldiș" Western University of Arad, 86 Liviu 
Rebreanu Street, 310045 Arad, Romania.
(6)Department of Medical Psychology, Faculty of Medicine, "Carol Davila" 
University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 8 Eroii Sanitari Blvd, 050474 Bucharest, 
Romania.
(7)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology and Biopharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 6 Traian Vuia Street, 020945 
Bucharest, Romania.

The treatment and interdisciplinary management of patients with chronic kidney 
disease (CKD) continue to improve long-term outcomes. The medical nutrition 
intervention's role is to establish a healthy diet plan for kidney protection, 
reach blood pressure and blood glucose goals, and prevent or delay health 
problems caused by kidney disease. Our study aims to report the effects of 
medical nutrition therapy-substituting foods rich in phosphorus-containing 
additives with ones low in phosphates content on phosphatemia and phosphate 
binders drug prescription in stage 5 CKD patients with hemodialysis. Thus, 18 
adults with high phosphatemia levels (over 5.5 mg/dL) were monitored at a single 
center. Everyone received standard personalized diets to replace processed foods 
with phosphorus additives according to their comorbidities and treatment with 
prosphate binder drugs. Clinical laboratory data, including dialysis protocol, 
calcemia, and phosphatemia, were evaluated at the beginning of the study, after 
30 and 60 days. A food survey was assessed at baseline and after 60 days. The 
results did not show significant differences between serum phosphate levels 
between the first and second measurements; thus, the phosphate binders' initial 
doses did not change. After 2 months, phosphate levels decreased considerably 
(from 7.322 mg/dL to 5.368 mg/dL); therefore, phosphate binder doses were 
diminished. In conclusion, medical nutrition intervention in patients with 
hemodialysis significantly reduced serum phosphate concentrations after 60 days. 
Restricting the intake of processed foods containing phosphorus additives-in 
particularized diets adapted to each patient's comorbidities-and receiving 
phosphate binders represented substantial steps to decrease phosphatemia levels. 
The best results were significantly associated with life expectancy; at the same 
time, they showed a negative correlation with the dialysis period and 
participants' age.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20065049
PMCID: PMC10049720
PMID: 36981958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


562. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Mar 13;20(6):5064. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20065064.

Do Individuals with High Climate Anxiety Believe That They Will Die Earlier? 
First Evidence from Germany.

Hajek A(1), König HH(1).

Author information:
(1)Hamburg Center for Health Economics, Department of Health Economics and 
Health Services Research, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 20246 
Hamburg, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the association between climate anxiety and perceived 
longevity in the general adult German population (also stratified by age group).
STUDY DESIGN: Nationally representative survey.
METHODS: Data were used of the general adult German population, with n = 3015 
individuals (18 to 74 years; data collection: March 2022). Climate anxiety was 
assessed using the validated Climate Anxiety Scale. It was adjusted for a wide 
array of covariates in linear-log regression analysis.
RESULTS: Even after adjusting for various covariates, there was an association 
between higher (log) climate anxiety and a lower perceived longevity in the 
total sample (β = -1.41, p < 0.01). Stratified by age group, a significant 
association was only present among individuals aged 18 to 29 years (β = -3.58, p 
= 0.01), whereas it was not present in the other age groups (i.e., individuals 
aged 30 to 49 years, individuals aged 50 to 64 years, and individuals aged 65 
years and over).
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed an association between higher climate anxiety and 
lower perceived longevity, particularly among younger individuals. More clearly, 
younger individuals with a higher climate anxiety think they will die earlier. 
This is the first study on this topic and could serve as a foundation for 
upcoming research. For example, longitudinal studies are needed to confirm our 
findings.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20065064
PMCID: PMC10048977
PMID: 36981973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


563. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Mar 8;24(6):5179. doi: 10.3390/ijms24065179.

Salvia sclarea Essential Oil Chemical Composition and Biological Activities.

Kačániová M(1)(2), Vukovic NL(3), Čmiková N(1), Galovičová L(1), Schwarzová 
M(1), Šimora V(1), Kowalczewski PŁ(4), Kluz MI(2), Puchalski C(2), Bakay L(5), 
Vukic MD(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Horticulture, Faculty of Horticulture and Landscape Engineering, 
Slovak University of Agriculture, Tr. A. Hlinku 2, 94976 Nitra, Slovakia.
(2)Department of Bioenergetics and Food Analysis, Institute of Food Technology 
and Nutrition, University of Rzeszow, Zelwerowicza 4, 35-601 Rzeszow, Poland.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Kragujevac, 34000 
Kragujevac, Serbia.
(4)Department of Food Technology of Plant Origin, Poznań University of Life 
Sciences, 31 Wojska Polskiego St., 60-624 Poznań, Poland.
(5)Institute of Landscape Architecture, Faculty of Horticulture and Landscape 
Engineering, Slovak University of Agriculture, Tr. A. Hlinku 2, 94976 Nitra, 
Slovakia.

Salvia sclarea essential oil (SSEO) has a long tradition in the food, cosmetic, 
and perfume industries. The present study aimed to analyze the chemical 
composition of SSEO, its antioxidant activity, antimicrobial activity in vitro 
and in situ, antibiofilm, and insecticidal activity. Besides that, in this 
study, we have evaluated the antimicrobial activity of SSEO constituent 
(E)-caryophyllene and standard antibiotic meropenem. Identification of volatile 
constituents was performed by using gas chromatography (GC) and gas 
chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) techniques. Results obtained indicated 
that the main constituents of SSEO were linalool acetate (49.1%) and linalool 
(20.6%), followed by (E)-caryophyllene (5.1%), p-cimene (4.9%), a-terpineol 
(4.9%), and geranyl acetate (4.4%). Antioxidant activity was determined as low 
by the means of neutralization of the DDPH radical and ABTS radical cation. The 
SSEO was able to neutralize the DPPH radical to an extent of 11.76 ± 1.34%, 
while its ability to decolorize the ABTS radical cation was determined at 29.70 
± 1.45%. Preliminary results of antimicrobial activity were obtained with the 
disc diffusion method, while further results were obtained by broth 
microdilution and the vapor phase method. Overall, the results of antimicrobial 
testing of SSEO, (E)-caryophyllene, and meropenem, were moderate. However, the 
lowest MIC values, determined in the range of 0.22-0.75 µg/mL for MIC50 and 
0.39-0.89 µg/mL for MIC90, were observed for (E)-caryophyllene. The 
antimicrobial activity of the vapor phase of SSEO (towards microorganisms 
growing on potato) was significantly stronger than that of the contact 
application. Biofilm analysis using the MALDI TOF MS Biotyper showed changes in 
the protein profile of Pseudomonas fluorescens that showed the efficiency of 
SSEO in inhibiting biofilm formation on stainless-steel and plastic surfaces. 
The insecticidal potential of SSEO against Oxycarenus lavatera was also 
demonstrated, and results show that the highest concentration was the most 
effective, showing insecticidal activity of 66.66%. The results obtained in this 
study indicate the potential application of SSEO as a biofilm control agent, in 
the shelf-life extension and storage of potatoes, and as an insecticidal agent.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms24065179
PMCID: PMC10049179
PMID: 36982252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


564. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Mar 8;24(6):5178. doi: 10.3390/ijms24065178.

Genetic Networks of Alzheimer's Disease, Aging, and Longevity in Humans.

Balmorez T(1), Sakazaki A(1), Murakami S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Sciences, College of Osteopathic Medicine, Touro 
University California, Vallejo, CA 94592, USA.

Human genomic analysis and genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have 
identified genes that are risk factors for early and late-onset Alzheimer's 
disease (AD genes). Although the genetics of aging and longevity have been 
extensively studied, previous studies have focused on a specific set of genes 
that have been shown to contribute to or are a risk factor for AD. Thus, the 
connections among the genes involved in AD, aging, and longevity are not well 
understood. Here, we identified the genetic interaction networks (referred to as 
pathways) of aging and longevity within the context of AD by using a gene set 
enrichment analysis by Reactome that cross-references more than 100 
bioinformatic databases to allow interpretation of the biological functions of 
gene sets through a wide variety of gene networks. We validated the pathways 
with a threshold of p-value < 1.00 × 10-5 using the databases to extract lists 
of 356 AD genes, 307 aging-related (AR) genes, and 357 longevity genes. There 
was a broad range of biological pathways involved in AR and longevity genes 
shared with AD genes. AR genes identified 261 pathways within the threshold of p 
< 1.00 × 10-5, of which 26 pathways (10% of AR gene pathways) were further 
identified by overlapping genes among AD and AR genes. The overlapped pathways 
included gene expression (p = 4.05 × 10-11) including ApoE, SOD2, TP53, and 
TGFB1 (p = 2.84 × 10-10); protein metabolism and SUMOylation, including E3 
ligases and target proteins (p = 1.08 × 10-7); ERBB4 signal transduction (p = 
2.69 × 10-6); the immune system, including IL-3 and IL-13 (p = 3.83 × 10-6); 
programmed cell death (p = 4.36 × 10-6); and platelet degranulation (p = 8.16 × 
10-6), among others. Longevity genes identified 49 pathways within the 
threshold, of which 12 pathways (24% of longevity gene pathways) were further 
identified by overlapping genes among AD and longevity genes. They include the 
immune system, including IL-3 and IL-13 (p = 7.64 × 10-8), plasma lipoprotein 
assembly, remodeling and clearance (p < 4.02 × 10-6), and the metabolism of 
fat-soluble vitamins (p = 1.96 × 10-5). Thus, this study provides shared genetic 
hallmarks of aging, longevity, and AD backed up by statistical significance. We 
discuss the significant genes involved in these pathways, including TP53, FOXO, 
SUMOylation, IL4, IL6, APOE, and CEPT, and suggest that mapping the gene network 
pathways provide a useful basis for further medical research on AD and healthy 
aging.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms24065178
PMCID: PMC10049434
PMID: 36982253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


565. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Mar 14;24(6):5508. doi: 10.3390/ijms24065508.

The Molecular Mechanism of Polyphenols in the Regulation of Ageing Hallmarks.

Pereira QC(1), Dos Santos TW(1), Fortunato IM(1), Ribeiro ML(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Immunopharmacology and Molecular Biology, Sao Francisco 
University Medical School, Braganca Paulista 12916-900, SP, Brazil.
(2)Lymphoma Translational Group, Josep Carreras Leukemia Research Institute, 
08916 Badalona, Spain.

Ageing is a complex process characterized mainly by a decline in the function of 
cells, tissues, and organs, resulting in an increased risk of mortality. This 
process involves several changes, described as hallmarks of ageing, which 
include genomic instability, telomere attrition, epigenetic changes, loss of 
proteostasis, dysregulated nutrient sensing, mitochondrial dysfunction, cellular 
senescence, stem cell depletion, and altered intracellular communication. The 
determining role that environmental factors such as diet and lifestyle play on 
health, life expectancy, and susceptibility to diseases, including cancer and 
neurodegenerative diseases, is wellestablished. In view of the growing interest 
in the beneficial effects of phytochemicals in the prevention of chronic 
diseases, several studies have been conducted, and they strongly suggest that 
the intake of dietary polyphenols may bring numerous benefits due to their 
antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, and their intake has been 
associated with impaired ageing in humans. Polyphenol intake has been shown to 
be effective in ameliorating several age-related phenotypes, including oxidative 
stress, inflammatory processes, impaired proteostasis, and cellular senescence, 
among other features, which contribute to an increased risk of ageing-associated 
diseases. This review aims to address, in a general way, the main findings 
described in the literature about the benefits of polyphenols in each of the 
hallmarks of ageing, as well as the main regulatory mechanisms responsible for 
the observed antiageing effects.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms24065508
PMCID: PMC10049696
PMID: 36982583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


566. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Mar 19;24(6):5850. doi: 10.3390/ijms24065850.

New Drugs and Therapies in Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension.

Shah AJ(1), Beckmann T(1), Vorla M(2), Kalra DK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY 40202, USA.
(2)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Louisville, 
Louisville, KY 40202, USA.

Pulmonary arterial hypertension is a chronic, progressive disorder of the 
pulmonary vasculature with associated pulmonary and cardiac remodeling. PAH was 
a uniformly fatal disease until the late 1970s, but with the advent of targeted 
therapies, the life expectancy of patients with PAH has now considerably 
improved. Despite these advances, PAH inevitably remains a progressive disease 
with significant morbidity and mortality. Thus, there is still an unmet need for 
the development of new drugs and other interventional therapies for the 
treatment of PAH. One shortcoming of currently approved vasodilator therapies is 
that they do not target or reverse the underlying pathogenesis of the disease 
process itself. A large body of evidence has evolved in the past two decades 
clarifying the role of genetics, dysregulation of growth factors, inflammatory 
pathways, mitochondrial dysfunction, DNA damage, sex hormones, neurohormonal 
pathways, and iron deficiency in the pathogenesis of PAH. This review focuses on 
newer targets and drugs that modify these pathways as well as novel 
interventional therapies in PAH.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms24065850
PMCID: PMC10058689
PMID: 36982922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


567. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Mar 20;24(6):5881. doi: 10.3390/ijms24065881.

Eucommia Polysaccharides Ameliorate Aging-Associated Gut Dysbiosis: A Potential 
Mechanism for Life Extension in Drosophila.

Wei JJ(1), Li XJ(1), Liu W(1), Chai XJ(2), Zhu XY(1), Sun PH(1), Liu F(1), Zhao 
YK(1), Huang JL(1), Liu YF(1), Zhao ST(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Northwest A&F University, Xianyang 712100, 
China.
(2)College of Basic Medicine, Xi'an Medical University, Xi'an 710068, China.

The gut microbiota is increasingly considered to play a key role in human 
immunity and health. The aging process alters the microbiota composition, which 
is associated with inflammation, reactive oxygen species (ROS), decreased tissue 
function, and increased susceptibility to age-related diseases. It has been 
demonstrated that plant polysaccharides have beneficial effects on the gut 
microbiota, particularly in reducing pathogenic bacteria abundance and 
increasing beneficial bacteria populations. However, there is limited evidence 
of the effect of plant polysaccharides on age-related gut microbiota dysbiosis 
and ROS accumulation during the aging process. To explore the effect of 
Eucommiae polysaccharides (EPs) on age-related gut microbiota dysbiosis and ROS 
accumulation during the aging process of Drosophila, a series of behavioral and 
life span assays of Drosophila with the same genetic background in standard 
medium and a medium supplemented with EPs were performed. Next, the gut 
microbiota composition and protein composition of Drosophila in standard medium 
and the medium supplemented with EPs were detected using 16S rRNA gene 
sequencing analysis and quantitative proteomic analysis. Here, we show that 
supplementation of Eucommiae polysaccharides (EPs) during development leads to 
the life span extension of Drosophila. Furthermore, EPs decreased age-related 
ROS accumulation and suppressed Gluconobacter, Providencia, and 
Enterobacteriaceae in aged Drosophila. Increased Gluconobacter, Providencia, and 
Enterobacteriaceae in the indigenous microbiota might induce age-related gut 
dysfunction in Drosophila and shortens their life span. Our study demonstrates 
that EPs can be used as prebiotic agents to prevent aging-associated gut 
dysbiosis and reactive oxidative stress.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms24065881
PMCID: PMC10054339
PMID: 36982954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All the authors declare no conflict of interest.


568. J Clin Med. 2023 Mar 8;12(6):2121. doi: 10.3390/jcm12062121.

Cardiovascular Side Effects of Anthracyclines and HER2 Inhibitors among Patients 
with Breast Cancer: A Multidisciplinary Stepwise Approach for Prevention, Early 
Detection, and Treatment.

Mauro C(1), Capone V(1)(2), Cocchia R(1), Cademartiri F(3), Riccardi F(4), 
Arcopinto M(5), Alshahid M(6), Anwar K(6), Carafa M(7), Carbone A(8), Castaldo 
R(9), Chianese S(1)(2), Crisci G(5), D'Assante R(5), De Luca M(5), Franzese 
M(9), Galzerano D(6), Maffei V(10), Marra AM(5), Valente V(5), Giardino F(5), 
Mazza A(11), Ranieri B(9), D'Agostino A(9), Rega S(12), Romano L(13), 
Scagliarini S(4), Sepe C(14), Vriz O(6), Izzo R(2), Cittadini A(5), Bossone 
E(12), Salzano A(1)(15).

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Division, Antonio Cardarelli Hospital, Via Cardarelli 9, 80131 
Naples, Italy.
(2)Department of Advanced Biomedical Sciences, University of Naples Federico II, 
Via Sergio Pansini 5, 80131 Naples, Italy.
(3)Department of Radiology, Fondazione G. Monasterio CNR-Regione Toscana, Via 
Moruzzi 1, 56124 Pisa, Italy.
(4)Oncology Unit, Antonio Cardarelli Hospital, Via Cardarelli 9, 80131 Naples, 
Italy.
(5)Department of Translational Medical Sciences, Federico II University, 80138 
Naples, Italy.
(6)The Heart Centre, King Faisal Specialist Hospital & Research Centre, Riyadh 
