demonstrates the importance of the physician-patient relationship and frequent 
clinical interactions in improving patient outcomes in obesity, including 
adherence to medications, higher motivation, and uptake of preventative care 
activities. Therefore, healthcare practitioners must develop a framework and 
utilize proper tools to counsel their patients and improve their communication 
regarding weight management.  Specific barriers exist within the medical 
community related to counseling patients with overweight or obesity. Many 
clinicians do not think counseling is feasible for various reasons, including 
time constraints and lack of appropriate training. Additionally, studies show 
that healthcare practitioners have negative attitudes toward patients with 
excess weight and often blame psychological and behavioral factors as the root 
causes of obesity.  Negative attitudes and biases in the healthcare setting 
towards patients with overweight and obesity have detrimental effects on these 
high-risk patients who are vulnerable while seeking care and recommendations for 
health promotion. These findings emphasize the need for improvements in medical 
education and communication about excess weight.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 36943997

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Amy Sheer declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Margaret Lo 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


438. Eur J Public Health. 2023 Jun 1;33(3):543-549. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckad036.

Cause-specific mortality in Spain during the pandemic: educational differences 
and its impact on life expectancy.

Spijker JJA(1), Trias-Llimós S(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre d'Estudis Demogràfics, Centres de Recerca de Catalunya (CERCA), Carrer 
de Ca n'Altayó, Edifici E2, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra, 
Spain.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy in Spain fell by 1 year between 2018/19 and 2020. 
Yet, little is known on the impact on cause-of-death (COD) dynamics and 
educational inequalities therein.
METHODS: We use individual-level death counts data by age, sex, education and 
multiple causes of death (MCOD) and the corresponding population exposures from 
national registers in Spain. Deaths were examined both as underlying cause of 
death (UCOD) and as contributory cause. We estimated life expectancies and 
lifespan inequalities by subpopulation groups and decomposed life expectancy 
differences between 2018/19 and 2020 by age groups and COD to assess the impact 
of COVID-19 (as MCOD) and major UCOD.
RESULTS: COVID-19 contributed to a decline in male and female life expectancy in 
Spain between 2018/19 and 2020 (respectively, -1.7 and -1.4 years). Conversely, 
cancer, respiratory and circulatory system diseases and ill-defined causes as 
UCOD contributed to life expectancy increases. Life expectancy declines equalled 
-1.4 years among the low-educated in both sexes (population 30+), -1.0 and 
-0.7 years among middle-educated and -1.1 and -0.9 years among high-educated men 
and women. Without COVID-19, educational inequalities in life expectancy would 
have remained at similar levels, whereas lifespan variation would have been 
lower (-22% for women and -8% for men).
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy declines in Spain in 2020 were mainly driven by 
COVID-19, with possible substitution effects, especially for respiratory system 
diseases (fewer deaths compared to 2018/19 when coded as UCOD but more as 
contributing cause). We therefore advocate analysing MCOD when studying changing 
COD patterns during the pandemic.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckad036
PMCID: PMC10234659
PMID: 36944099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Trop Med Int Health. 2023 May;28(5):409-418. doi: 10.1111/tmi.13873. Epub
2023  Apr 3.

Equity in maternal healthcare utilisation in Ghana: Do community-based 
primary health care programmes matter?

Kanmiki EW(1)(2)(3), Mamun AA(2)(3), Phillips JF(4), O'Flaherty MJ(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social Science Research, The University of Queensland, 
Indooroopilly, Australia.
(2)Poche Centre for Indigenous Health, Faculty of Health and Behavioural 
Science, The University of Queensland, Indooroopilly, Australia.
(3)ARC Centre of Excellence for Children and Families over the Life Course, The 
University of Queensland, Indooroopilly, Australia.
(4)Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health, Mailman School of 
Public Health, Columbia University, New York, New York, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Improving equity in the use of maternal health services in rural and 
remote communities is critical to meeting the Sustainable Development Goals 
targets on maternal and child health. This study examines the effect of a 
community-based primary healthcare strengthening programme on improving the 
utilisation of antenatal care (ANC4+), skilled delivery and health facility 
delivery.
METHODS: Baseline and endline survey data of women of reproductive age for 
intervention and comparison districts were used to examine the equity impact of 
the Ghana Essential Health Interventions Programme (GEHIP) on antenatal care 
visits, skilled delivery and health facility delivery. The Wagstaff extension of 
the concentration index and regression models are used to assess equity effects 
of the programme on the utilisation of these services by wealth index and 
educational attainment.
RESULTS: Coverage rates increased for both intervention and comparison 
districts, but were generally higher in intervention districts than comparison 
districts at endline (90% vs. 88% for ANC4+, 88% vs. 84% for skilled delivery 
and 93% vs. 88% for health facility delivery). Only ANC4+ showed a statistically 
significant positive treatment effect of the intervention (Dif-in-Dif = 0.071, 
p-value = 0.010). Equity analysis showed a mixed picture with intervention 
districts achieving significant equity improvement for skilled delivery for both 
wealth index and maternal education but only education equity for health 
facility delivery, while comparison districts achieved both wealth and education 
equity improvements for two indicators (health facility delivery and skilled 
delivery). No significant equity/inequity effects were found for ANC4+.
CONCLUSION: Efforts to improve community-based healthcare access have been 
associated with improved coverage of maternal health services; however, the 
effect on improving equity in service coverage is mixed. Results indicate a need 
to extend community-based primary health care development beyond general 
improvements in access to ensure equity in the coverage of maternal and child 
health services that such programmes provide.

© 2023 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tmi.13873
PMID: 36944596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Breast Cancer Res. 2023 Mar 21;25(1):29. doi: 10.1186/s13058-023-01631-6.

Serum immuno-oncology markers carry independent prognostic information in 
patients with newly diagnosed metastatic breast cancer, from a prospective 
observational study.

Gunnarsdottir FB(1), Bendahl PO(2), Johansson A(2), Benfeitas R(3), Rydén 
L(2)(4), Bergenfelz C(#)(1), Larsson AM(#)(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Experimental Infection Medicine, Department of Translational 
Medicine, Lund University, SE-214 28, Malmö, Sweden.
(2)Division of Oncology, Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Lund University, 
SE-223 81, Lund, Sweden.
(3)National Bioinformatics Infrastructure Sweden (NBIS), Science for Life 
Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Stockholm University, 
SE-106 91, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Department of Surgery and Gastroenterology, Skåne University Hospital, SE-214 
28, Malmö, Sweden.
(5)Division of Oncology, Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Lund University, 
SE-223 81, Lund, Sweden. anna-maria.larsson@med.lu.se.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Metastatic breast cancer (MBC) is a challenging disease, and despite 
new therapies, prognosis is still poor for a majority of patients. There is a 
clinical need for improved prognostication where immuno-oncology markers can 
provide important information. The aim of this study was to evaluate serum 
immuno-oncology markers in MBC patients and their respective relevance for 
prediction of survival.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We investigated a broad panel of 92 immuno-oncology 
proteins in serum from 136 MBC patients included in a prospective observational 
study (NCT01322893) with long-term follow-up. Serum samples were collected 
before start of systemic therapy and analyzed using multiplex proximity 
extension assay (Olink Target 96 Immuno-Oncology panel). Multiple machine 
learning techniques were used to identify serum markers with highest importance 
for prediction of overall and progression-free survival (OS and PFS), and 
associations to survival were further evaluated using Cox regression analyses. 
False discovery rate was then used to adjust for multiple comparisons.
RESULTS: Using random forest and random survival forest analyses, we identified 
the top nine and ten variables of highest predictive importance for OS and PFS, 
respectively. Cox regression analyses revealed significant associations 
(P < 0.005) of higher serum levels of IL-8, IL-10 and CAIX with worse OS in 
multivariable analyses, adjusted for established clinical prognostic factors 
including circulating tumor cells (CTCs). Similarly, high serum levels of IL-8, 
IL-10, ADA and CASP8 significantly associated with worse PFS. Interestingly, 
high serum levels of FasL significantly associated with improved OS and PFS. In 
addition, CSF-1, IL-6, MUC16, TFNSFR4 and CD244 showed suggestive evidence 
(P < 0.05) for an association to survival in multivariable analyses. After 
correction for multiple comparisons, IL-8 still showed strong evidence for 
correlation to survival.
CONCLUSION: To conclude, we found six serum immuno-oncology markers that were 
significantly associated with OS and/or PFS in MBC patients, independently of 
other established prognostic factors including CTCs. Furthermore, an additional 
five serum immuno-oncology markers provided suggestive evidence for an 
independent association to survival. These findings highlight the relevance of 
immuno-oncology serum markers in MBC patients and support their usefulness for 
improved prognostication. Trial registration Clinical Trials (NCT01322893), 
registered March 25, 2011.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13058-023-01631-6
PMCID: PMC10031935
PMID: 36945037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: RB was an employee at NBIS at the time of data 
analyses. RB is currently an employee of Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. and does not 
hold Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. stocks or equity shares. Chiesi Farmaceutici 
S.p.A. was not involved with the current study. FBG was an employee at Lund 
University at the time of data analyses and drafting the manuscript. FBG is 
currently an employee at Alligator Bioscience and does not hold Alligator 
Bioscience stocks or equity shares, and Alligator Bioscience was not involved 
with the current study. All other authors have no competing interests.


441. J Obes Metab Syndr. 2023 Mar 30;32(1):46-54. doi: 10.7570/jomes23008. Epub
2023  Mar 22.

Weight Loss Prediction after Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery.

Park JY(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, Kyungpook National University, 
Daegu, Korea.
(2)Department of Surgery, Kyungpook National University Chilgok Hospital, Daegu, 
Korea.

Metabolic/bariatric surgery is currently the most effective measure to treat 
morbid obesity and obesity-related comorbidities such as type 2 diabetes. It has 
proven effective not only in terms of short-term weight loss, but also in 
maintaining the lower body weight for several decades. Such weight loss improves 
patient quality of life and extends life expectancy. It is crucial for patients 
to understand the likely results of a given bariatric procedure so that they can 
make an informed decision about whether to undergo surgery. The amount of weight 
loss after metabolic/bariatric surgery is usually the most important outcome of 
interest to patients considering surgical treatment. It is also the most common 
primary endpoint for healthcare providers. Patients undergoing surgery want 
tangible and realistic expectations about how much weight they could lose after 
surgery, and healthcare professionals need to determine at each follow-up visit 
after surgery whether patients are on track to reach their weight loss target so 
they can provide timely intervention to patients with insufficient weight loss 
or weight regain. Weight loss after metabolic/bariatric surgery is influenced by 
many clinical variables, including initial body mass index, age, gender, 
ethnicity, and type of surgery. A well-validated chronological weight loss 
prediction model would enable patient-centered counseling and goal setting. This 
review summarizes and compares several publicly available prediction models.

DOI: 10.7570/jomes23008
PMCID: PMC10088553
PMID: 36945076

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


442. J Investig Med. 2023 Jun;71(5):489-494. doi: 10.1177/10815589231162525. Epub
 2023 Mar 21.

Prevalence and predictors of non-rheumatic valvular heart disease in patients 
with sickle cell disease: insights from the National In-Patient Database in 2016 
and 2017.

Quelal K(1), Torres A(1), Shahi A(1), Almani MU(1), Yadav N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Cook County Health, Chicago, IL, USA.
(2)Division of Cardiology, Cook County Health, Chicago, IL, USA.

Sickle cell disease (SCD) life expectancy has increased in high-income 
countries, approaching the fifth decade in the United States. Aging in SCD has 
raised concerns about chronic organ damage due to adaptative and maladaptive 
cardiac remodeling. This study aims to assess the prevalence and predictors of 
non-rheumatic valvular heart disease (NRVHD) in SCD patients using the United 
States National Inpatient Sample database from 2016 and 2017. We conducted a 
weighted analysis on SCD patients during their index hospitalization. We 
obtained the prevalence of NRVHD and calculated adjusted odds ratios to identify 
the associated demographic, social, and clinical characteristics using 
multivariable logistic regression. We identified 192,460 SCD admissions during 
2016 and 2017. Of them, 2450 (1.3%) had NRVHD. Mitral insufficiency (MI) was the 
most common NRVHD present in 52% of the cases. Mitral valve prolapse represented 
12.4%, while aortic stenosis and aortic insufficiency in 10.8% and 12.7%, 
respectively. Right-sided NRVHD had a lower prevalence, with 17.1% of patients 
having tricuspid insufficiency (TI) and 6.3% pulmonary insufficiency. There were 
no cases of mitral, tricuspid, or pulmonary stenosis. Characteristics associated 
with the presence of NRVHD in SCD were secondary pulmonary hypertension, 
congestive heart failure, chronic kidney disease, and female sex. NRVHDs, 
especially MI and TI, are comorbidities in SCD. Literature is scarce on this 
topic. The predictors found for its occurrence could help address modifiable 
factors that can positively affect patients with SCD who, due to the natural 
history of the disease, are at risk of developing NRVHD.

DOI: 10.1177/10815589231162525
PMID: 36945196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. PeerJ. 2023 Mar 16;11:e15116. doi: 10.7717/peerj.15116. eCollection 2023.

Marinated oven-grilled beef entrecôte meat from a bovine farm: Evaluation of 
resultant physicochemical and organoleptic attributes.

Okpala COR(1)(2), Juchniewicz S(2), Leicht K(2), Korzeniowska M(2), Guiné 
RPF(3).

Author information:
(1)UGA Cooperative Extension, College of Agricultural and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia, United States.
(2)Department of Functional Food Products Development, Faculty of Biotechnology 
and Food Sciences, Wroclaw University of Environmental and Life Sciences, 
Wroclaw, Poland.
(3)Centre for Natural Resources, Environment and Society (CERNAS-IPV), 
Polytechnic Institute of Viseu, Viseu, Portugal.

Understanding the impact that combined action of marination and oven grill 
processes would have on such meat products as beef entrecôte is crucial from 
both consumer appeal and product development standpoints. Therefore, different 
marinated oven-grilled beef entrecôte meat specifically evaluating resultant 
physicochemical and organoleptic attributes were studied. The beef entrecôte 
meat was provided by a reputable local bovine farm/slaughter at Wroclaw, Poland. 
Physicochemical attributes involved antioxidant 
(2,2'-azinobis(3-ethylbenzothiaziline-6-sulfonate) (ABTS), 
2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP)), 
(pH, thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS), cooking weight loss, L*a*b* 
color, and textural cutting force). Organoleptic attributes involved sensory 
(flavour, appearance, tenderness, taste) and texture (hardness, chewiness, 
gumminess, graininess, and greasiness) aspects. Different marination variants 
involved constituent 0.5%, 1%, and 1.5% quantities of cranberry pomace (CP), 
grape pomace (GP), and Baikal skullcap (BS), subsequently incorporated either 
African spice (AS) or industrial marinade/pickle (IM). Results showed pH, ABTS, 
DPPH, FRAP, TBARS, L*a*b* color, cooking weight loss, and textural cutting 
force, sensory and textural profile with varying range values. Concentration 
increases of either CP, GP, and or BS may not always go along with ABTS, DPPH, 
and FRAP values, given the observed decreasing or increasing fluctuations. As 
oven-grilling either increased or decreased the TBARS values alongside some 
color and textural cutting force trends, pH variations by difference seemed more 
apparent at samples involving GP, before CP, and then BS. The organoleptic 
attributes obtained differences and resemblances from both sensory and textural 
profile standpoints. Overall, oven-grilling promises to moderate both 
physicochemical and organoleptic range values of different marinated beef 
entrecôte meat samples in this study.

© 2023 Okpala et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.15116
PMCID: PMC10024902
PMID: 36945361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Charles Odilichukwu R. Okpala is an Academic 
Editor for PeerJ.


444. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2023 Jun;23(5):547-554. doi: 
10.1080/14737167.2023.2193689. Epub 2023 Mar 29.

Burden of disease of chronic pain in Ecuador.

Lasalvia P(1)(2), Gil-Rojas Y(1), Rosselli D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economic Studies, NeuroEconomix, Bogotá, Colombia.
(2)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Pontificia Universidad 
Javeriana, Bogotá, Colombia.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the burden of disease related to chronic pain in 
Ecuador.
METHODS: We used Global Burden of Disease (GBD) methods to estimated 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) related to chronic pain in Ecuador 
related to lumbar pain, osteoarthritis, post-herpetic neuralgia, diabetic 
neuropathy, cancer-related pain, and other musculoskeletal pain. We estimated 
the prevalent cases by sex and age group using literature data. We only 
estimated years lived with disability using disability weights obtained from the 
GBD, with the assumption that no premature death would be related to pain. We 
used a prevalence-based approach to estimate cases by sex and age group using 
literature, without discounting or age adjustment. We calculated total DALYs and 
DALYs/100,000 inhabitants.
RESULTS: Our estimated yielded a total of 3,644,108 patients with chronic pain. 
They would produce 256,090 DALYs or 1,483 DALYs/100,000 inhabitants attributable 
to chronic pain. Low back pain, osteoarthritis and cancer-related pain were the 
drivers of DALY production.
CONCLUSIONS: Chronic pain is an important source of burden of disease. It is 
comparable to other important causes such as headaches, stroke, diabetes and 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, among others. Low back pain, 
osteoarthritis and other musculoskeletal pain were the biggest contributors 
given their high prevalence.

DOI: 10.1080/14737167.2023.2193689
PMID: 36946473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. J Econ Entomol. 2023 Jun 13;116(3):956-962. doi: 10.1093/jee/toad014.

LAMP Assay as a Rapid Identification Technique of Chinese Citrus Fly and 
Japanese Orange Fly (Diptera: Tephritidae).

Yang W(1), Su Y(1), Zeng L(1), Zhang Y(1), Ullah F(1), Wang X(1)(2), Li X(2), 
Feng X(2), Li Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Biosecurity, College of Plant Protection, College of 
Plant Protection, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100193, China.
(2)National Agro-Tech Extension and Service Center, Beijing 100125, China.

Bactrocera tsuneonis and Bactrocera minax are the most destructive pests that 
damage citrus in China. These key pests hinder the citrus trade, cause 
significant financial losses, drastically lower citrus production and quality, 
and decrease farmer enthusiasm for citrus planting. Bactrocera minax and B. 
tsuneonis are very similar in all life stages. There are limited morphological 
characteristics to differentiate the adult species, and it is nearly impossible 
to differentiate these two species in the egg and larval stages. Loop-mediated 
isothermal amplification (LAMP) is a rapid and robust diagnostic tool used to 
identify these two species accurately. We designed two sets of primers to 
distinguish B. minax and B. tsuneonis using DNA barcoding region of the COI 
gene. Only 50 min was needed under a constant temperature of 65ºC to determine 
the species of the two flies. The reaction system has high specificity and 
sensitivity, in which these two species can be accurately distinguished between 
different geographical populations and 1.0 ng/μL was the lowest DNA 
concentration that could be detected. Our primers can quickly identify these key 
pests without knowing their morphology, which could facilitate plant protection 
workers at the primary level to solve problems in plant quarantine.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/toad014
PMID: 36946506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Prenat Diagn. 2023 Jun;43(6):756-762. doi: 10.1002/pd.6344. Epub 2023 Mar
30.

Anterior extension of the choroid plexus into the frontal horns of the fetal 
lateral cerebral ventricles: Prenatal findings and postnatal outcome.

Ashwal E(1), Blaser S(2)(3), Leckie A(2), Kajal D(2), Krishnan P(2)(3), Chong 
K(4)(5), Roifman M(4), Toi A(2), Chitayat D(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, McMaster University, Hamilton, 
Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Radiology, Mount Sinai Hospital, University of Toronto, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, Division of Neuroradiology, The Hospital 
for Sick Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The Prenatal Diagnosis and Medical 
Genetics Program, Mount Sinai Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Clinical and Metabolic Genetics, The 
Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the short- and long-term outcome of fetuses with evidence 
of extension of the choroid plexus into the frontal horns.
METHODS: This is a retrospective cohort study of fetuses diagnosed with isolated 
choroid plexi extending into the frontal horns. Fetuses with major central 
nervous system anomalies were excluded. Ultrasound and fetal/postnatal magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) were evaluated. Postnatal outcomes, including 
developmental assessment, were obtained.
RESULTS: Twenty nine fetuses were diagnosed with choroid plexus extension (22 
unilateral and 7 bilateral). Gestational age at diagnosis was 19.3 weeks. Three 
cases (10.3%) presented with nonspecific extra-CNS findings. At presentation, 
8/29 (28%) cases had single/multiple choroid plexus cysts (CPC). Twenty-six 
(89.6%) cases underwent antenatal MRI. On MRI, four cases had punctate 
susceptibility weighted imaging (SWI) foci suggesting trace hemosiderin and two 
cases had ventriculomegaly. Antenatal follow-up demonstrated resolution of the 
choroid plexus extension in 90% (18/20). Gestational age at delivery was 
39.6 weeks. All had normal neurologic examinations within 24 h of life. 
Postnatal MRI studies were notable for deep venous differences in seven cases. 
Long-term clinical outcome was assessed in 14 cases with a median follow-up of 
1.75 years, with normal neurodevelopment reported in 13/14 (92.8%).
CONCLUSIONS: Most fetuses with an anterior extension of the choroid plexus as 
the sole sonographic finding had favorable outcomes.

© 2023 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pd.6344
PMID: 36946677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Acc Chem Res. 2023 Jun 6;56(11):1279-1286. doi:
10.1021/acs.accounts.2c00590.  Epub 2023 Mar 22.

Design, Synthesis, and Evaluation of Allosteric Effectors for Hemoglobin.

Enakaya NA(1), Jefferson A(1), Chew-Martinez D(1), Matthews JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Howard University, 525 College Street, NW, 
Washington, D.C. 20059, United States.

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is an inherited blood disorder caused by a point 
mutation in hemoglobin (Hb), the protein in the red blood cell (RBC) responsible 
for the transport of oxygen (O2) throughout the body. The mutation leads to the 
expression of sickle cell hemoglobin (HbS). Both Hb and HbS exist in equilibrium 
between oxygenated and deoxygenated forms; however, deoxygenated HbS can 
polymerize to form long fibers which distort the shape of RBCs into the 
characteristic sickled shape. The misshapen RBCs can obstruct blood vessels and 
capillaries, resulting in a vaso-occlusive crisis. Vaso-occulsion deprives 
tissues and organs of O2 and can cause intense pain which often results in 
hospitalization. Chronic organ damage is a major cause of reduced life 
expectancy for SCD patients.Allosteric effectors are molecules which regulate 
protein function. HbS allosteric effectors can be used to decrease 
polymerization by stabilizing the oxygenated form of HbS, which leads to an 
increase in O2 uptake and a decrease in the sickling of RBCs. Allosteric 
effectors that have been evaluated for the treatment of SCD include vanillin, 
5-hydroxymethyl furfural (5-HMF), and voxelotor, which was approved by the U.S. 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of SCD in 2019. 5-HMF did 
not progress to phase III clinical trials since it suffered from rapid metabolic 
degradation. However, several derivatives of 5-HMF and vanillin have been 
synthesized and evaluated as potential candidates for SCD treatment. Derivatives 
of these compounds have shown promise, but their shortcomings, such as high 
levels of oxidative metabolism, have prevented them from progressing into 
marketable drugs. Our efforts have produced multiple 5-HMF derivatives which 
have been evaluated for their potential to treat SCD. Each derivative was 
evaluated for its ability to increase O2 affinity (i.e., P50, the partial 
pressure at which hemoglobin is 50% saturated with O2). The synthesized aryl 
ether derivatives were evaluated, and results suggest that compounds with 
multiple aromatic aldehydes may have enhanced biological properties. One such 
derivative, compound 5, which features two furan aldehyde rings, exhibited 
increased O2 affinity (P50 = 8.82 ± 1.87 mmHg) over that of unmodified Hb (P50 = 
13.67 ± 0.22 mmHg). Future studies include obtaining crystal structures of the 
5-HMF derivatives complexed with HbS to confirm the protein-allosteric effector 
interactions.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.accounts.2c00590
PMID: 36946781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Cardiol Rev. 2023 Mar 22. doi: 10.1097/CRD.0000000000000523. Online ahead of
 print.

The Association Between Cardiovascular Disease and Dementia: A Review of Trends 
in Epidemiology, Risk Factors, Pathophysiologic Mechanisms, and Clinical 
Implications.

Pandit M(1), Frishman WH(2).

Author information:
(1)From the New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY.
(2)Department of Medicine, New York Medical College/Westchester Medical Center, 
Valhalla, NY.

With increases in life expectancy and the size of the aging population, 
cognitive decline and neurodegenerative pathologies are expected to increase in 
the next few decades. Age-related increases in risk for dementia and 
cardiovascular disease have been researched widely. Epidemiology trends reveal a 
predicted increase of neurodegenerative disease to more than 65 million by 2030 
in the United States. There are several risk factors for the development of 
cardiovascular disease that have been widely studied for their impact on 
dementia; such as: diabetes, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia. Several 
pathophysiologic mechanisms exist by which cardiovascular disease could impact 
dementia including cerebral hypoperfusion, reactive oxidative species, and 
increased cleavage of amyloid precursor protein into amyloid beta plaques and 
accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles. Emerging evidence also suggests that 
treatment of cardiovascular disease risk factors could reduce the risk of 
dementia development. In this review, we seek to examine the relationship 
between cardiovascular disease and dementia by examining epidemiologic trends, 
common risk factors, pathophysiologic mechanisms and implications for clinical 
management.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/CRD.0000000000000523
PMID: 36946920

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: The authors have no conflicts of 
interest to report.


449. PLoS One. 2023 Mar 22;18(3):e0283182. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0283182. 
eCollection 2023.

Extensible membrane nanotubules mediate attachment of Trypanosoma cruzi 
epimastigotes under flow.

Perdomo-Gómez CD(1)(2), Ruiz-Uribe NE(2)(3), González JM(1), Forero-Shelton 
M(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Ciencias Básicas Médicas, School of Medicine, Universidad de 
los Andes, Bogotá, Colombia.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Universidad de los Andes, Bogotá, 
Colombia.
(3)Department of Physics, Universidad de los Andes, Bogotá, Colombia.

Trypanosoma cruzi is the etiological agent of Chagas disease, an important cause 
of infectious chronic myocardiopathy in Latin America. The life cycle of the 
parasite involves two main hosts: a triatomine (arthropod hematophagous vector) 
and a mammal. Epimastigotes are flagellated forms inside the triatomine gut; 
they mature in its intestine into metacyclic trypomastigotes, the infective form 
for humans. Parasites attach despite the shear stress generated by fluid flow in 
the intestines of the host, but little is known about the mechanisms that 
stabilize attachment in these conditions. Here, we describe the effect of 
varying levels of shear stress on attached T. cruzi epimastigotes using a 
parallel plate flow chamber. When flow is applied, parasites are partially 
dragged but maintain a connection to the surface via ~40 nm wide filaments 
(nanotubules) and the activity of flagella is reduced. When flow stops, 
parasites return near their original position and flagellar motion resumes. 
Nanotubule elongation increases with increasing shear stress and is consistent 
with a model of membrane tether extension under force. Fluorescent probes used 
to confirm membrane composition also show micron-wide anchoring pads at the 
distal end of the nanotubules. Multiple tethering accounts for more resistance 
to large shear stresses and for reduced flagellar movement when flow is stopped. 
The formation of membrane nanotubules is a possible mechanism to enhance 
adherence to host cells under shear stress, favoring the continuity of the 
parasite´s life cycle.

Copyright: © 2023 Perdomo-Gómez et al. This is an open access article 
distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which 
permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided 
the original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0283182
PMCID: PMC10032539
PMID: 36947570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


450. Health Place. 2023 May;81:103001. doi: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2023.103001.
Epub  2023 Mar 20.

Population density: What does it really mean in geographical health studies?

Greenberg M(1), Schneider D donas@rutgersedu(2).

Author information:
(1)Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy, Rutgers University, 
New Brunswick, NJ, 08901, USA. Electronic address: mrg@rutgers.edu.
(2)Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy, Rutgers University, 
New Brunswick, NJ, 08901, USA.

Population density is an indicator in many studies, but often with only a 
cursory explanation of why. Unfortunately, elected officials and the media draw 
misleading conclusions about population density and public health. After 
providing three reasons why population density is linked to human health 
outcomes, using state, county, municipal and neighborhood scale data, we show 
that population density serves as a surrogate for explaining the geographical 
distribution of life expectancy and broadband access. However, population 
density loses its unique contribution when other factors influencing health are 
included. We urge authors to explain why they include population density in 
their studies.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2023.103001
PMID: 36947902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Lung Cancer. 2023 May;179:107171. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2023.03.007. Epub
2023  Mar 15.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of adjuvant atezolizumab in stage II-IIIA non-small 
cell lung cancer expressing ≥50% PD-L1: A United Kingdom health care 
perspective.

Yip CY(1), Greystoke A(2), Abogunrin S(3), Belleli R(3), Di Maio D(3), Rouse 
P(4), Jovanoski N(3).

Author information:
(1)Roche Products Ltd, Welwyn Garden City, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
chui-ying.yip@roche.com.
(2)Northern Centre for Cancer Care, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK, United Kingdom.
(3)F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Basel, Switzerland.
(4)Roche Products Ltd, Welwyn Garden City, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVES: Atezolizumab monotherapy has marketing authorisation by the 
Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency as adjuvant treatment 
following complete resection for adults with stage II-IIIA non-small cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC) whose tumours have PD-L1 expression on ≥ 50% of tumour cells and 
whose disease has not progressed following adjuvant platinum-based chemotherapy. 
This study evaluated the cost-effectiveness of atezolizumab vs best supportive 
care (BSC) in the licensed patient population from a UK perspective.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patient characteristics and clinical inputs were derived 
from the global, randomised, open-label, phaseIII IMpower010 trial. A Markov 
model with the following health states was developed: disease-free survival 
(DFS), locoregional recurrence, first-line metastatic recurrence, second-line 
metastatic recurrence, and death (all partitioned based on receipt of treatment, 
excluding death). The base case model used a lifetime time horizon (40 years) 
and 3.5% discounting annually after the first year. DFS from IMpower010 was 
analysed with parametric survival models to extrapolate outcomes for time points 
beyond trial follow-up. The models were adjusted to avoid overestimating results 
for patients with recurrences in the longer term. Grade ≥ 3 treatment-related 
adverse events with incidences ≥ 2% were included. Health state utility values 
were derived from the literature and past NICE appraisals. Sensitivity and 
scenario analyses assessed uncertainty around assumptions and parameter 
estimates.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, atezolizumab therapy resulted in an expected 
gain of 1.87 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) corresponding to an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of £20,392/QALY for atezolizumab vs BSC, demonstrating 
cost-effectiveness. Results were most influenced by discount effects and utility 
in the on-treatment DFS state. Scenario analyses were consistent with the base 
case results.
CONCLUSION: Atezolizumab after adjuvant chemotherapy is cost-effective for 
adults with NSCLC in the UK.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2023.03.007
PMID: 36947997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


452. Eur Respir Rev. 2023 Mar 22;32(167):220116. doi: 10.1183/16000617.0116-2022.
 Print 2023 Mar 31.

Lung transplantation for COPD/pulmonary emphysema.

Verleden GM(1), Gottlieb J(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Diseases, Lung Transplantation Unit, University 
Hospital Gasthuisberg, Leuven, Belgium geert.verleden@uzleuven.be.
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, 
Germany.
(3)Biomedical Research in End-Stage and Obstructive Lung Disease Hannover, 
German Center for Lung Research.

Comment in
    Eur Respir Rev. 2023 Mar 22;32(167):

COPD and α-1 antitrypsin deficiency emphysema remain one of the major 
indications for lung transplantation. If all other treatment possibilities are 
exhausted or not possible (including rehabilitation, oxygen therapy, noninvasive 
ventilation, lung volume reduction), patients may qualify for lung 
transplantation. Strict selection criteria are implemented with a lot of 
relative and absolute contraindications. Because of an ongoing donor shortage, 
only a minority of endstage COPD patients will finally get transplanted. The 
procedure may involve a single or a double lung transplantation, dependent on 
the experience of the centre, the waiting list, the availability of donor lungs 
and the patient's risk-benefit ratio. In general, the life expectancy as well as 
the health-related quality of life after lung transplantation for COPD are 
usually increased, and may be somewhat better after double compared with single 
lung transplantation. Several specific complications can be encountered, such as 
the development of solid organ cancer and chronic lung allograft dysfunction, 
which develops in up to 50% of patients within 5 years of their transplant and 
has a major impact on long-term survival, because of the current inefficient 
treatment modalities.

Copyright ©The authors 2023.

DOI: 10.1183/16000617.0116-2022
PMCID: PMC10032585
PMID: 36948499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: the authors have nothing 
to disclose.


453. BMJ Open. 2023 Mar 22;13(3):e066505. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-066505.

Optimising psychological treatment for pain after breast cancer: a factorial 
design study protocol in Denmark.

Buskbjerg C(1)(2), O'Toole MS(3), Zachariae R(3)(2), Jensen AB(2), Frederiksen 
Y(4)(5), Johansen C(6), von Heymann A(6), Speckens A(7), Johannsen M(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Behavioural Sciences, Aarhus University, Aarhus, 
Denmark cdrc@psy.au.dk.
(2)Department of Oncology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)Department of Psychology and Behavioural Sciences, Aarhus University, Aarhus, 
Denmark.
(4)Deparment of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.
(5)The Sexology Unit, Aarhus University Hospital Psychiatry, Aarhus, Denmark.
(6)CASTLE Cancer Late Effects Research Unit, Department of Oncology, Copenhagen 
University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, Centre for Mindfulness, Radboud University Medical 
Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: One in five breast cancer (BC) survivors are affected by 
persistent pain years after completing primary treatment. While the efficacy of 
psychological interventions for BC-related pain has been documented in several 
meta-analyses, reported effect sizes are generally modest, pointing to a need 
for optimisation. Guided by the Multiphase Optimization Strategy, the present 
study aims to optimise psychological treatment for BC-related pain by 
identifying active treatment components in a full factorial design.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The study uses a 2×3 factorial design, randomising 
192 women with BC-related pain (18-75 years) to eight experimental conditions. 
The eight conditions consist of three contemporary cognitive-behavioural therapy 
components, namely: (1) mindful attention, (2) decentring, and (3) values and 
committed action. Each component is delivered in two sessions, and each 
participant will receive either zero, two, four or six sessions. Participants 
receiving two or three treatment components will be randomised to receive them 
in varying order. Assessments will be conducted at baseline (T1), session by 
session, every day for 6 days following the first session in each treatment 
component, at post-intervention (T2) and at 12-week follow-up (T3). Primary 
outcomes are pain intensity (Numerical Rating Scale) and pain interference 
(Brief Pain Inventory interference subscale) from T1 to T2. Secondary outcomes 
are pain burden, pain quality, pain frequency, pain catastrophising, 
psychological distress, well-being and fear of cancer recurrence. Possible 
mediators include mindful attention, decentring, and pain acceptance and 
activity engagement. Possible moderators are treatment expectancy, treatment 
adherence, satisfaction with treatment and therapeutic alliance.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval for the present study was received 
from the Central Denmark Region Committee on Health Research Ethics (no: 
1-10-72-309-40). Findings will be made available to the study funders, care 
providers, patient organisations and other researchers at international 
conferences, and published in international, peer-reviewed journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ClinicalTrials.gov Registry (NCT05444101).

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-066505
PMCID: PMC10040060
PMID: 36948567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


454. J Atheroscler Thromb. 2023 Nov 1;30(11):1674-1686. doi: 10.5551/jat.64157.
Epub  2023 Mar 22.

Association between High Bleeding Risk and 2-Year Mortality in Patients with 
Chronic Limb-Threatening Ischemia.

Yoshioka N(1), Tokuda T(2), Koyama A(3), Yamada T(4), Shimamura K(5), Nishikawa 
R(6), Morita Y(1), Morishima I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Ogaki Municipal Hospital.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Nagoya Heart Center.
(3)Department of Vascular Surgery, Ichinomiya Municipal Hospital.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Central Japan International Medical Center.
(5)Department of Cardiology, Shizuoka General Hospital.
(6)Department of Cardiovascular of Medicine, Kyoto University Graduate School of 
Medicine.

AIM: Patients with chronic limb-threatening ischemia (CLTI) have a high bleeding 
risk (HBR) and mortality rate. The 2-year life expectancy is an important factor 
in deciding the appropriate treatment strategy. This study aimed to assess the 
influence of HBR on the prognosis of patients with CLTI.
METHODS: A total of 259 patients with CLTI who underwent endovascular therapy 
(EVT) (mean age, 76.2 years; male, 62.9%) between January 2018 and December 2019 
were evaluated. The Academic Research Consortium for HBR (ARC-HBR) criteria were 
applied to each patient, and the ARC-HBR scores were calculated. The cut-off 
score for predicting all-cause mortality within two years was derived using a 
survival classification and regression tree (CART) model. Causes of death and 
the association between ARC-HBR scores and major bleeding events within two 
years were also investigated.
RESULTS: Based on the CART model, patients were divided into three groups (low 
HBR score 0-1.0, 48 patients; moderate HBR score 1.5-3.0, 176 patients; and high 
HBR score ≥ 3.5, 35 patients). During the study period, 82 patients (39.6%) died 
due to cardiac (n=23) and non-cardiac causes (n=59). All-cause mortality 
increased significantly with increasing ARC-HBR scores. Cox multivariate 
analysis revealed a significant association between high ARC-HBR scores and the 
risk of all-cause mortality within two years. Major bleeding events increased 
significantly with increasing ARC-HBR scores.
CONCLUSIONS: The ARC-HBR score could predict 2-year mortality in patients with 
CLTI who underwent EVT. Thus, this score can help determine the best 
revascularization strategy for patients with CLTI.

DOI: 10.5551/jat.64157
PMCID: PMC10627769
PMID: 36948637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


455. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am. 2023 Jun;52(2):389-403. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecl.2022.10.006. Epub 2023 Feb 16.

Type 1 Diabetes and Aging.

Toschi E(1).

Author information:
(1)Joslin Diabetes Center; Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center; Harvard Medical 
School, One Joslin Place, Boston, MA 02215, USA. Electronic address: 
elena.toschi@joslin.harvard.edu.

The number of older adults with type 1 diabetes (T1D) is increasing due to an 
overall increase in life expectancy and improvement in diabetes management and 
treatment of complications. They are a heterogeneous cohort due to the dynamic 
process of aging and the presence of comorbidities and diabetes-related 
complications. A high risk for hypoglycemia unawareness and severe hypoglycemia 
has been described. Periodic assessment of health status and adjustment of 
glycemic goals to mitigate hypoglycemia is imperative. Continuous glucose 
monitoring, insulin pump, and hybrid closed-loop systems are promising tools to 
improve glycemic control and mitigate hypoglycemia in this age group.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecl.2022.10.006
PMID: 36948786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Nature. 2023 Mar;615(7954):934-938. doi: 10.1038/s41586-023-05817-y. Epub
2023  Mar 22.

Structural basis of mitochondrial membrane bending by the I-II-III(2)-IV(2) 
supercomplex.

Mühleip A(#)(1)(2), Flygaard RK(#)(1)(3), Baradaran R(1)(4), Haapanen O(5), 
Gruhl T(6), Tobiasson V(1)(4)(7), Maréchal A(6)(8), Sharma V(5)(9), Amunts 
A(10).

Author information:
(1)Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, 
Stockholm University, Solna, Sweden.
(2)School of Infection and Immunity, University of Glasgow, Wellcome Centre for 
Integrative Parasitology, Glasgow, UK.
(3)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Danish Research Institute of 
Translational Neuroscience-DANDRITE, Nordic EMBL Partnership for Molecular 
Medicine, Aarhus University, Aarhus C, Denmark.
(4)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.
(5)Department of Physics, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(6)Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, Birkbeck College, London, UK.
(7)National Center for Biotechnology Information, National Library of Medicine, 
National Institute of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(8)Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, University College London, 
London, UK.
(9)HiLIFE Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(10)Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, 
Stockholm University, Solna, Sweden. amunts@scilifelab.se.
(#)Contributed equally

Mitochondrial energy conversion requires an intricate architecture of the inner 
mitochondrial membrane1. Here we show that a supercomplex containing all four 
respiratory chain components contributes to membrane curvature induction in 
ciliates. We report cryo-electron microscopy and cryo-tomography structures of 
the supercomplex that comprises 150 different proteins and 311 bound lipids, 
forming a stable 5.8-MDa assembly. Owing to subunit acquisition and extension, 
complex I associates with a complex IV dimer, generating a wedge-shaped gap that 
serves as a binding site for complex II. Together with a tilted complex III 
dimer association, it results in a curved membrane region. Using molecular 
dynamics simulations, we demonstrate that the divergent supercomplex actively 
contributes to the membrane curvature induction and tubulation of cristae. Our 
findings highlight how the evolution of protein subunits of respiratory 
complexes has led to the I-II-III2-IV2 supercomplex that contributes to the 
shaping of the bioenergetic membrane, thereby enabling its functional 
specialization.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41586-023-05817-y
PMCID: PMC10060162
PMID: 36949187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


457. Environ Monit Assess. 2023 Mar 23;195(4):502. doi:
10.1007/s10661-023-11045-8.

Forecasting PM(2.5) concentrations using statistical modeling for Bengaluru and 
Delhi regions.

Agarwal A(1), Sahu M(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Aerosol and Nanoparticle Technology Laboratory, Environmental Science and 
Engineering Department, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Powai, Mumbai, 
India, 400076.
(2)Aerosol and Nanoparticle Technology Laboratory, Environmental Science and 
Engineering Department, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Powai, Mumbai, 
India, 400076. mrsahu@iitb.ac.in.
(3)Interdisciplinary Program in Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology 
Bombay, Mumbai, 400076, India. mrsahu@iitb.ac.in.
(4)Centre for Machine Intelligence and Data Science, Indian Institute of 
Technology Bombay, Mumbai, 400076, India. mrsahu@iitb.ac.in.

India is home to some of the most polluted cities on the planet. The worsening 
air quality in most of the cities has gone to an extent of causing severe impact 
on human health and life expectancy. An early warning system where people are 
alerted well before an adverse air quality episode can go a long way in 
preventing exposure to harmful air conditions. Having such system can also help 
the government to take better mitigation and preventive measures. Forecasting 
systems based on machine learning are gaining importance due to their 
cost-effectiveness and applicability to small towns and villages, where most 
complex models are not feasible due to resource constraints and limited data 
availability. This paper presents a study of air quality forecasting by 
application of statistical models. Three statistical models based on 
autoregression (AR), moving average (MA), and autoregressive integrated moving 
average (ARIMA) models were applied to the datasets of PM2.5 concentrations of 
Delhi and Bengaluru, and forecasting was done for 1-day-ahead and 7-day-ahead 
time frames. All three models forecasted the PM2.5 reasonably well for 
Bengaluru, but the model performance deteriorated for the Delhi region. The AR, 
MA, and ARIMA models achieved mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) of 10.82%, 
7.94%, and 8.17% respectively for forecast of 7 days and MAPE of 7.35%, 5.62%, 
and 5.87% for 1-day-ahead forecasts for Bengaluru. For the Delhi region, the 
model gave an MAPE of 27.82%, 24.62%, and 27.32% for the AR, MA, and ARIMA 
models respectively in the 7-day-ahead forecast, and 24.48%, 23.53%, and 23.72% 
respectively for 1-day-ahead forecast. The analysis showed that ARIMA model 
performs better in comparison to the other models but performance varies with 
varying concentration regimes. Study indicates that other topographical and 
meteorological parameters need to be incorporated to develop better models and 
account for the effects of these parameters in the study.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-023-11045-8
PMID: 36949261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. BMC Public Health. 2023 Mar 23;23(1):547. doi: 10.1186/s12889-023-15454-9.

Gender differences in premature mortality for cardiovascular disease in India, 
2017-18.

Kundu J(1), James KS(1), Hossain B(2), Chakraborty R(1).

Author information:
(1)International Institute for Population Sciences, 400088, Mumbai, India.
(2)International Institute for Population Sciences, 400088, Mumbai, India. 
bhossain399@gmail.com.

