(2)Department of Renal Medicine, Eastern Health, Box Hill, VIC, Australia.

With increasing life expectancy, the related disorders of bone loss, metabolic 
dysregulation and sarcopenia have become major health threats to the elderly. 
Each of these conditions is prevalent in patients with chronic kidney disease 
(CKD), particularly in more advanced stages. Our current understanding of the 
bone-muscle interaction is beyond mechanical coupling, where bone and muscle 
have been identified as interrelated secretory organs, and regulation of both 
bone and muscle metabolism occurs through osteokines and myokines via autocrine, 
paracrine and endocrine systems. This review appraises the current knowledge 
regarding biochemical crosstalk between bone and muscle, and considers recent 
progress related to the role of osteokines and myokines in CKD, including 
modulatory effects of physical exercise and potential therapeutic targets to 
improve musculoskeletal health in CKD patients.

Copyright © 2023 Wong and McMahon.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2023.1146868
PMCID: PMC10076741
PMID: 37033253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


722. Transl Cancer Res. 2023 Mar 31;12(3):638-645. doi: 10.21037/tcr-22-1783.
Epub  2023 Mar 6.

Paget disease of the breast with underlying invasive ductal cancer in 
neurofibromatosis type 1: a case report.

Liu T(1), Liang Y(1), Lalwani SK(1), Zhang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast Surgery, Second Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, 
China.

BACKGROUND: Neurofibromatoses (NFs) are a group of rare autosomal dominant 
genetic disorders characterized by tumors growing in the nervous system. 
Neurofibromas, which are soft noncancerous tumors, have been found on or under 
the skin in patients with NF1. Furthermore, patients with NF1 are susceptible to 
various cancers, including breast cancer. Neurofibromas under the skin of the 
breast can delay the diagnosis of breast cancer, which severely reduces life 
expectancy. Paget disease of the breast (PDB) is a rare type of breast cancer 
that causes eczema-like changes of the nipple.
CASE DESCRIPTION: Here, we present a rare case of a 50-year-old woman who was 
diagnosed with NF1 and an invasive ductal breast carcinoma accompanied by PDB. 
The patient underwent mastectomy, sentinel lymph node biopsy, and adjuvant 
therapies, including chemotherapy, anti-human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
(HER2) therapy, and endocrine therapy. No local recurrence or distance 
metastasis was found at 3 years of follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: NF1 patients aged <50 years have a higher risk of breast cancer and 
a worse prognosis. Moreover, neurofibroma in the breast can easily mask signs of 
breast cancers. Therefore, early breast cancer screening is crucial for patients 
with NF1. Radiotherapy should be avoided because of potential carcinogenicity to 
the neurofibromas. Mastectomy, and not breast-conserving surgery, is the optimal 
choice. Patients should undergo regular postoperative follow-up so that 
contralateral breast cancer can be detected early.

2023 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/tcr-22-1783
PMCID: PMC10080468
PMID: 37033353

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
https://tcr.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/tcr-22-1783/coif). The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare.


723. Front Aging. 2023 Mar 23;4:1141792. doi: 10.3389/fragi.2023.1141792.
eCollection  2023.

Considerations and analysis of the implementation of oncogeriatrics in Chile and 
its importance: Review of current literature.

Honorato M(1), Calderón O(1)(2), Rojas V(1), Fasce G(3)(4), Bartolotti C(5)(6), 
Caglevic C(7).

Author information:
(1)Geriatrics Department, Clínica Alemana de Santiago, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Geriatrics, Complejo Asistencial Dr Sótero del Río, Santiago, Chile.
(3)Geriatrics Service, Department of Medicine, Hospital Clínico Universidad de 
Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(4)Geriatrics Service, Department of Medicine, Clínica Las Condes, Santiago, 
Chile.
(5)Geriatrics, Internal Medicine Department, Universidad de la Frontera, Temuco, 
Chile.
(6)Geriatrics, Centro Comunitario Kiműnche, Temuco, Chile.
(7)Cancer Research Department, Instituto Oncológico Fundación Arturo López 
Pérez, Santiago, Chile.

The Chilean census of 2017 reported that 11.4% of the local population are 
65 years or older, and according to the National Institute of Statistics (INE) 
the current expectancy of life in Chile is 76 years for men and 81 years for 
women respectively. Cancer in Chile is a major public health problem. Aging is a 
significant risk factor for cancer development which added to the improved life 
expectancy, it increases the incidence of cancer. In 2040, new cancer cases will 
increase from 19.3 to 30.2 million worldwide. Older people are a heterogeneous 
group requiring specialized and individualized management. Chronological age 
does not necessarily correlate with physiological age. More than half of the 
geriatric patients with cancer have at least one comorbidity which is relevant 
when defining a cancer treatment. Likewise, polypharmacy is frequent and is an 
important issue to consider in people with cancer due to the risk associated 
with drug interactions. Oncogeriatric assessment consists of a comprehensive 
multidimensional evaluation, including functional and biopsychosocial issues, 
addressing aspects of the neoplastic disease such as the risk of toxicities due 
to systemic therapy and life expectancy. This tool has proven to be helpful in 
the diagnosis of conditions that are not evident in a routine oncological 
evaluation, such as geriatric syndromes, frailty, functional dependence, and 
cognitive impairment among others, which have an impact when deciding on 
therapy, predicting risks of treatment toxicity and mortality. In this article 
we aim to describe the current situation of Oncogeriatrics and to provide 
epidemiological information about cancer in the elderly population in Chile 
attempting to highlight the importance of the Oncogeriatrics units, within 
cancer departments, for a better decision taking in the elderly cancer patient.

Copyright © 2023 Honorato, Calderón, Rojas, Fasce, Bartolotti and Caglevic.

DOI: 10.3389/fragi.2023.1141792
PMCID: PMC10077059
PMID: 37033403

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


724. Front Neurol. 2023 Mar 24;14:943183. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2023.943183.
eCollection  2023.

CNS efficacy parameters of combination antiretroviral therapy in chronic HIV 
infection: A multi-voxel magnetic resonance spectroscopy study.

Brkic S(1), Veres B(1), Thurnher MM(2), Boban J(1), Radovanovic B(1), Tomic 
S(1), Kozic D(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Novi Sad, Novi Sad, Serbia.
(2)Department of Biomedical Imaging and Image-guided Therapy, Medical University 
of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

This study aimed to determine the correlations of combination antiretroviral 
therapy (cART) efficacy parameters in the central nervous system (CNS) with a 
neurometabolic profile on magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) in virally 
suppressed, neurologically asymptomatic HIV+ individuals. In total, 32 HIV+ 
individuals on stable cART with an average age of 41.97 ± 10.12 years and with 
available clinical data, CNS penetration effectiveness (CPE), and monocyte 
efficacy (ME) scores underwent multi-voxel MRS. The parameters of neuronal 
number/function (NAA/Cr), membrane turnover (Cho/Cr), and glial proliferation 
(mI/Cr) were analyzed in supratentorial white and gray matter. Correlations of 
CPE and ME with neurometabolic ratios were performed using Pearson's correlation 
test. Statistical significance was set at p < 0.05. A strong positive 
correlation was observed between Cho/Cr and CPE in the left parietal subcortical 
white matter (r = 0.577, p = 0.001). A strong positive correlation between 
NAA/Cr and ME was obtained in the left (r = 0.521, p = 0.003) and the right (r = 
0.494, p = 0.005) posterior cingulate. A strong negative correlation between ME 
and Cho/Cr ratios was observed in the right frontal deep white matter (r = 
-0.569, p = 0.001). Indices designed to assess cART efficacy in CNS failed to 
present significant correlations with the neurometabolic profile obtained using 
MRS. There is a need to define more potent non-invasive tools for 
neuroinflammation assessment given the prolonged life expectancy in the HIV+ 
population.

Copyright © 2023 Brkic, Veres, Thurnher, Boban, Radovanovic, Tomic and Kozic.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2023.943183
PMCID: PMC10081682
PMID: 37034085

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


725. Front Cardiovasc Med. 2023 Mar 22;10:1091327. doi:
10.3389/fcvm.2023.1091327.  eCollection 2023.

Dietary supplements could prevent cardiometabolic syndrome: Are they safe and 
reliable enough for disease prevention and health promotion?

Télessy IG(1), Buttar HS(2), Wilson DW(3)(4), Okpala COR(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmaceutics, University of Pécs, Pécs, 
Hungary.
(2)Department of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine, School of Medicine, University 
of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada.
(3)Formerly, School of Medicine Pharmacy and Health, Durham University, Durham, 
UK.
(4)Centre for Ageing and Dementia Research, Swansea University, Swansea, United 
Kingdom.
(5)Faculty of Biotechnology and Food Sciences, Wrocław University of 
Environmental and Life Sciences, Wrocław, Poland.
(6)UGA Cooperative Extension, College of Agricultural and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Georgia Athens, Athens, GA, United States.

Dietary supplements (DS) and their purchase is often based on a consumer's 
personal choice and advertisements. The associated DS regulations, particularly 
in manufacturing and marketing, are far more flexible and permissive than that 
of the well-regulated prescription pharmaceuticals. However, the adverse health 
effects associated with the inadvertent use of mega-doses of DS are not well 
understood. The demand for DS, nutraceuticals, and herbal remedies has 
experienced an upswing during the past two to three decades, and global product 
sales have thrived. More so, the prevention of cardiometabolic syndrome (CMS) 
and related disorders like diabetes mellitus, obesity, hypertension, and serum 
lipid abnormalities, as well as of other noncommunicable diseases (NCDs), is of 
highest health care priority globally, since these disorders impose very high 
economic burdens on health care systems and society. In this review, we argue 
why DS could prevent cardiometabolic syndrome, by providing the potential 
benefits and risks associated with them, especially self-medication considering 
their intake by the public at large. Good manufacturing practices and quality 
control are absolutely necessary for the manufacture of DS products, and proper 
labeling is needed regarding the optimal dose schedules of various DS and 
bioactive ingredients. Specific examples are used to underscore the indications 
and dosage recommendations made for the marketing and promotion of fish oil, 
coenzyme Q10, and Mg-containing products for the prevention of cardiometabolic 
syndrome.

© 2023 Télessy, Buttar, Wilson and Okpala.

DOI: 10.3389/fcvm.2023.1091327
PMCID: PMC10073544
PMID: 37034351

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


726. bioRxiv. 2023 Apr 2:2023.03.31.535154. doi: 10.1101/2023.03.31.535154.
Preprint.

Event-related potential (ERP) evidence of early visual processing differences in 
cystinosis.

Horsthuis DJ(1), Molholm S(1)(2)(3), Foxe JJ(1)(2)(3), Francisco AA(1).

Author information:
(1)The Cognitive Neurophysiology Laboratory, Department of Pediatrics, Albert 
Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New York, USA.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Rose F. Kennedy Center, Albert Einstein College 
of Medicine, Bronx, New York, USA.
(3)The Frederick J. and Marion A. Schindler Cognitive Neurophysiology 
Laboratory, Ernest J. Del Monte Institute for Neuroscience & Department of 
Neuroscience, University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Rochester, New York, USA.

Cystinosis, a rare lysosomal storage disease, is characterized by cystine 
crystallization and accumulation within tissues and organs, including the 
kidneys and brain. Its impact on neural function appears mild relative to its 
effects on other organs, but therapeutic advances have led to substantially 
increased life expectancy, necessitating deeper understanding of its impact on 
neurocognitive function. Behavioral difficulties have been reported in 
cystinosis in the visual and visual-processing domain. Very little is known, 
however, about how the brains of people living with cystinosis process visual 
information, although cysteamine accumulation in the retina is a prominent 
feature of cystinosis. Here, electrophysiology was recorded during a Go/No-Go 
task to investigate early visual processing in cystinosis, compared to an 
age-matched control group. Analyses focused on early stages of cortical visual 
processing. The groups differed in their initial cortical response, with 
individuals with cystinosis exhibiting a significantly larger visual evoked 
potential (VEP) in the 130 to 150 ms time window. The timing and topography of 
this response suggested an enhanced P1 in cystinosis that could be the result of 
cortical hyperexcitability and/or differences in attentional engagement and 
explain, at least partially, the visual and visual-spatial difficulties 
described in this population. The groups also differed in the associations 
between neural responses and verbal abilities: While controls with higher IQ 
scores presented larger neural responses, that relationship was not observed in 
cystinosis.

DOI: 10.1101/2023.03.31.535154
PMCID: PMC10081319
PMID: 37034748

Conflict of interest statement: COMPETING INTERESTS The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


727. bioRxiv. 2023 Apr 2:2023.03.31.535145. doi: 10.1101/2023.03.31.535145.
Preprint.

Response inhibition and error-monitoring in cystinosis (CTNS gene mutations): 
Behavioral and electrophysiological evidence of a diverse set of difficulties.

Francisco AA(1), Foxe JJ(1)(2)(3), Berruti A(1), Horsthuis DJ(1), Molholm 
S(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)The Cognitive Neurophysiology Laboratory, Department of Pediatrics, Albert 
Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New York, USA.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Rose F. Kennedy Center, Albert Einstein College 
of Medicine, Bronx, New York, USA.
(3)The Frederick J. and Marion A. Schindler Cognitive Neurophysiology 
Laboratory, Ernest J. Del Monte Institute for Neuroscience & Department of 
Neuroscience, University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Rochester, New York, USA.

Cystinosis, a rare lysosomal storage disease, is characterized by cystine 
crystallization and accumulation within tissues and organs, including the 
kidneys and brain. Its impact on neural function appears mild relative to its 
effects on other organs, but therapeutic advances have led to substantially 
increased life expectancy, necessitating deeper understanding of its impact on 
neurocognitive function. Behaviorally, some deficits in executive function have 
been noted in this population, but the underlying neural processes are not 
understood. Using standardized cognitive assessments and a Go/No-Go response 
inhibition task in conjunction with high-density electrophysiological recordings 
(EEG), we sought to investigate the behavioral and neural dynamics of inhibition 
of a prepotent response and of error monitoring (critical components of 
executive function) in individuals with cystinosis, when compared to age-matched 
controls. Thirty-seven individuals diagnosed with cystinosis (7-36 years old, 24 
women) and 45 age-matched controls (27 women) participated in this study. 
Analyses focused on N2 and P3 No-Go responses and error-related positivity (Pe). 
Atypical inhibitory processing was shown behaviorally. Electrophysiological 
differences were additionally found between the groups, with individuals with 
cystinosis showing larger No-Go P3s. Error-monitoring was likewise different 
between the groups, with those with cystinosis showing reduced Pe amplitudes.

DOI: 10.1101/2023.03.31.535145
PMCID: PMC10081337
PMID: 37034772

Conflict of interest statement: COMPETING INTERESTS The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


728. Aquac Nutr. 2023 Mar 29;2023:4805919. doi: 10.1155/2023/4805919. eCollection
 2023.

Comparative Study on Growth Index and Nutritional Quality of Female Chinese 
Mitten Crab Eriocheir sinensis Selected at Different Growth Periods in Rice-Crab 
Culture Systems.

Zhang BY(1), Fang WH(1), Zhu R(1), Wang N(1), Yao Q(2), Liu HJ(3), Wan JW(3), 
Chen YK(1), Wang QJ(1), Zhang DM(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Jilin Agricultural University, 
Jilin Changchun 130118, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Jilin Agricultural University, Jilin Changchun 
130118, China.
(3)Aquaculture Technology Extension Station of Jilin Province, Changchun 130012, 
China.

Research was conducted on the growth performance and nutritional quality of 
Chinese mitten crabs (Eriocheir sinensis) during a 62-day growing period in a 
symbiotic coculture comprising rice and crab. Culture experiments were conducted 
in three rice fields of equal size (996 m2). On days 0 (July 15, D0), 15 (July 
30, D15), 31 (August 15, D31), 46 (August 30, D46), and 62 (September 2, D62), 
tissue samples of 50 female E. sinensis were collected randomly from each rice 
field. The results showed that the serum growth hormone (GH) content and muscle 
ecdysone receptor (EcR) mRNA expression levels were higher in the D31 and D46 
groups; the content of serum 20-hydroxyecdysone (20-HE) and the mRNA expression 
levels of retinoid X receptor (RXR), insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2), and 
chitinase (CHI) reached the maximum in the D31 group. Muscle crude protein 
content gradually increased; hepatopancreas crude protein and crude lipid 
content began to decrease after reaching the maximum value in the D0 and D15 
groups, respectively; the contents of crude protein and crude lipid in the ovary 
significantly increased in the D46 and D62 groups (P < 0.05). The content of 
muscle essential amino acids (EAA) reached the maximum in the D46 group; the 
hepatopancreas EAA content began to decrease significantly in the D31 group (P < 
0.05); and the EAA content of the ovary decreased significantly after reaching 
the maximum value in the D46 group (P < 0.05). The muscle contents of 
eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), docosapentaenoic acid (DPA), docosahexaenoic acid 
(DHA), polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), and n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids 
(n-3PUFA) and the ratio of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids/n-6 polyunsaturated 
fatty acids (n3/n6) decreased significantly in the D31 group (P < 0.05); the 
hepatopancreas contents of EPA, PUFA, n-3PUFA, and n-6 polyunsaturated fatty 
acids (n-6PUFA) and the ratio of n3/n6 began to decrease after reaching the 
maximum value in the D31 group, ethyl behenate (21:0), tetracosanoic acid 
(24:0), DPA, and DHA contents were detected for the first time in the D31 group; 
the ovary PUFA, n-3PUFA contents, and n3/n6 ratio of the D46 and D62 groups were 
significantly lower than those of the D31 group (P < 0.05). During the 
experimental conditions described here, female E. sinensis raised in rice fields 
reached rapid growth from August 15 to August 30. Additionally, the nutritional 
quality of the female E. sinensis edible tissues (muscle, hepatopancreas, and 
ovary) began to decline after August 15, when sufficient nutrients such as 
protein, lipid, EAA, and PUFA should be provided to the female E. sinensis.

Copyright © 2023 Bao-Yuan Zhang et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2023/4805919
PMCID: PMC10076119
PMID: 37034828

Conflict of interest statement: No conflict of interest exists in the submission 
of this manuscript.


729. Front Psychol. 2023 Mar 22;14:1135433. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2023.1135433. 
eCollection 2023.

Engagement in a structured physical activity program and its effects upon 
health-related quality of life in elderly women: An observational study.

Cammisuli DM(1), Franzoni F(2), Fusi J(2), Scarfò G(2), Castelnuovo G(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Catholic University, Milan, Italy.
(2)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa, Pisa, 
Italy.
(3)Psychology Research Laboratory, Istituto Auxologico Italiano, Milan, Italy.

Erratum in
    Front Psychol. 2023 Nov 07;14:1298200.

Aging is a complex process associated with an impairment in functional capacity 
and low health-related quality of life (HRQoL) due to a high frequency of 
chronic diseases in the elderly population. Regular physical activity (PA) may 
limit some physiological effects of sedentary lifestyle and increase life 
expectancy. An observational was conducted to measure the HRQoL among older 
adults living in the community, by comparing a convenience sample of elderly 
females practicing a structured program of PA from 2 to 3 times per week in 
60-min sessions (i.e., active females, AFs) to a sample of participants adopting 
lifestyle behaviors expending little energy (i.e., sedentary females, SFs). A 
validated questionnaire (the RAND 36-item) was used as outcome measure. All 
participants were assessed in terms of cognitive status (Montreal Cognitive 
Assessment, MoCA) to exclude mild cognitive impairment, divided 
attention/executive functioning (Trail Making Test, Stroop Test) and 
psychopathological dimensions of anxiety (Geriatric Anxiety Inventory, GAI), and 
depression (Geriatric Depression Scale, GDS). Non-parametric analysis revealed 
that AFs and SFs differed significantly in the RAND Energy/Fatigue (E/F), 
Emotional Wellbeing (EW), and Social Functioning (SoF), that was however 
influenced by education level. Moreover, E/F and EW were negatively associated 
to anxiety and depression, while SoF was influenced by divided attention. PA 
results in a healthful behavior for combating feelings of fatigue and low energy 
as well as emotional distress that can affect health status perception in older 
women.

Copyright © 2023 Cammisuli, Franzoni, Fusi, Scarfò and Castelnuovo.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2023.1135433
PMCID: PMC10075252
PMID: 37034950

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


730. Front Surg. 2023 Mar 22;10:1090680. doi: 10.3389/fsurg.2023.1090680.
eCollection  2023.

Median survival following geriatric hip fracture among 17,868 males from the 
Veterans Health Administration.

Lee A(1), Xi IL(1), Ahn J(2)(3), Bernstein J(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
PA, United States.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 
United States.
(3)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Lieutenant Colonel Charles S. 
Kettles Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI, United States.
(4)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Corporal Michael J. Crescenz 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA, United States.

BACKGROUND: The expected value of treatments for geriatric femoral neck fracture 
is influenced by the predicted duration of survival after injury. Specifically, 
total hip arthroplasty is more suited for patients likely to live long enough to 
reap its longer-term benefits. For predicting short- and medium-term survival, 
there are many tools available, but for longer-term survival prognosis the 
current literature is insufficient. Our hypothesis is that patient age at the 
time of injury correlates with median life expectancy and survival rates, and 
these values can anchor a prediction regarding a given patient's life 
expectancy. We therefore sought to determine median and fractional survival 
rates at 30 days, and 1, 2, 5 and 10 years after surgery for a large cohort of 
elderly patients with hip fracture as a function of age.
METHODS: 17,868 male patients, 65-89 years of age, treated surgically for hip 
fracture within the Veterans Affairs system were assessed. From this set, 10,000 
patients were randomly selected, and their ages at surgery and death (if any) 
were recorded at least 10 years post-operatively. Median and fractional survival 
rates were recorded at 1 month and 1, 2, 5, and 10 years. The mathematical 
relationship between age and median survival was determined. All findings from 
the 10,000-patient cohort were compared to corresponding values of the remaining 
7,868 patients, to assess the predictive power of the initial observations.
RESULTS: The median survival rate for the entire cohort was 2.2 years, with 
90.4% of the group surviving at 30 days. The percentage of the cohort surviving 
at 1, 2, 5 and 10 years after treatment was 64.5%, 52.3%, 27.1% and 8.9% 
respectively. Median survival was approximately 
(13 - (0.13 × age-at-time-of-surgery) years for patients of all ages.
CONCLUSIONS: Median survival after geriatric hip fracture can be accurately 
predicted by the patient's age at the time of injury. Median survival and 
fractional survival at key milestones can help estimate life-expectancy and 
thereby help guide treatment.

© 2023 Lee, Xi, Ahn and Bernstein.

DOI: 10.3389/fsurg.2023.1090680
PMCID: PMC10073485
PMID: 37035567

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


731. Front Surg. 2023 Mar 22;10:1160827. doi: 10.3389/fsurg.2023.1160827.
eCollection  2023.

Surgical management of compensatory sweating: A systematic review.

Loizzi D(1), Mongiello D(1), Bevilacqua MT(1), Raveglia F(2), Fiorelli A(3), 
Congedo MT(4), Ardò NP(1), Sollitto F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Science, University of Foggia, Foggia, 
Italy.
(2)Department of Thoracic Surgery, San Gerardo Hospital, Monza, Italy.
(3)Department of Translation Medicine, Thoracic Surgery Unit, Università della 
Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", Naples, Italy.
(4)Dipartimento di Medicina e Chirurgia Traslazionale, Università Cattolica del 
Sacro Cuore, Roma, Italy.

Endoscopic thoracic sympathectomy (ETS) surgery is a highly effective treatment 
of primary hyperhidrosis (PH) for the palms, face, axillae. Compensatory 
sweating (CS) is the most common and feared side effect of thoracic 
sympathectomy. CS is a phenomenon characterized by increased sweating in sites 
distal to the level of sympathectomy. Compensatory sweating is the main problem 
for which many patients give up surgery, losing the chance to solve their 
problem and accepting a poor quality of life. There are still no treatments that 
offer reliable solutions for compensatory sweating. The treatments proposed in 
the literature are scarce, with low case histories, and with uncertain results. 
Factors associated with CS are extension of manipulation of the sympathetic 
chain, level of sympathetic denervation, and body mass index. Therapeutic 
options include non surgical treatment and surgical treatment. Non surgical 
treatments include topical agents, botulinum toxin, systemic anticholinergics, 
iontophoresis. Surgical treatments include clip removal, extended sympathectomy 
and sympathetic chain reconstruction, although the efficacy is not 
well-established for all the methods. In this review we provide an overview of 
the treatments and outcomes described in the literature for the management of 
compensatory CS, with focus on surgical treatment.

© 2023 Loizzi, Mongiello, Bevilacqua, Raveglia, Fiorelli, Congedo, Ardò and 
Sollitto.

DOI: 10.3389/fsurg.2023.1160827
PMCID: PMC10073509
PMID: 37035574

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


732. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2023 Aug 1;30(10):948-950. doi: 10.1093/eurjpc/zwad108.

The encounter of elevated high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and high blood 
pressure lowers life expectancy.

von Eckardstein A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Chemistry, University Hospital of Zurich and University 
of Zurich, Raemistrasse 100, CH-8091 Zurich, Switzerland.

Comment on
    Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2023 Aug 1;30(10):951-959.

DOI: 10.1093/eurjpc/zwad108
PMID: 37036051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared.


733. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2023 Nov;65(11):1532-1533. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.15616.
Epub  2023 Apr 10.

Severe cerebral palsy survival is similar in California, USA and Victoria, 
Australia.

Walz L(1), Brooks JC(1), Strauss DJ(1), Shavelle RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, 1439 17th Avenue, San Francisco, CA, 94122, USA.

Comment on
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2023 Apr;65(4):580-587.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.15616
PMID: 37036187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2023 Apr 10. doi:
10.1007/s12602-023-10060-y.  Online ahead of print.

Geroprotective Effect of Levilactobacillus brevis and Weizmannia coagulans in 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Thiruppathi G(1), Mohankumar A(2), Kalaiselvi D(3), Velumani M(4), Saravana 
Bhavan P(1), Premasudha P(4), Tawata S(5), Sundararaj P(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Bharathiar University, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, 641046, 
India.
(2)PAK Research Center, University of the Ryukyus, Senbaru 1, Nishihara-Cho, 
Okinawa, 903-0213, Japan. amkkmohan@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Agricultural Chemistry, Institute of Environmentally Friendly 
Agriculture, College of Agriculture and Life Science, Chonnam National 
University, Gwangju, 61186, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Nanoscience and Technology, Bharathiar University, Coimbatore, 
Tamil Nadu, 641046, India.
(5)PAK Research Center, University of the Ryukyus, Senbaru 1, Nishihara-Cho, 
Okinawa, 903-0213, Japan.
(6)Department of Zoology, Bharathiar University, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, 641046, 
India. sunpalan@gmail.com.

The prophylactic use of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) to maintain human health is 
one of the most important research areas in recent times. LAB supplementation 
confers a wide range of health benefits to the host, but few studies have 
focused on their possible role in delaying the aging process. This study 
explored the health and life-promoting properties of two LAB, Levilactobacillus 
brevis and Weizmannia coagulans, using the Caenorhabditis elegans model. We 
found that L. brevis and W. coagulans enhanced the intestinal integrity and 
intestinal barrier functions without affecting the overall physiological 
functions of C. elegans. Wild-type worms preconditioned with LAB strains 
increased their survival under oxidative and thermal stress conditions by 
reducing intracellular reactive oxygen levels. Live L. brevis and W. coagulans 
significantly extended the lifespan of C. elegans under standard laboratory 
conditions independently of dietary restrictions. Genetic and reporter gene 
expression analysis revealed that L. brevis and W. coagulans extend lifespan via 
insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1 signaling and the p38 MAPK signaling axis. 
Furthermore, sirtuin, JNK MAPK, and mitochondrial respiratory complexes were 
found to be partially involved in W. coagulans-mediated lifespan extension and 
stress resilience. Preconditioning with LAB ameliorated age-related functional 
decline in C. elegans and reduced ectopic fat deposition in an NHR-49-dependent 
manner. Together, our findings indicated that L. brevis and W. coagulans are 
worth exploring further as "gerobiotic" candidates to delay aging and improve 
the healthspan of the host.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-023-10060-y
PMID: 37036656


735. JAMA Neurol. 2023 Jun 1;80(6):558-567. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2023.0552.

Efficacy and Safety of Avalglucosidase Alfa in Patients With Late-Onset Pompe 
Disease After 97 Weeks: A Phase 3 Randomized Clinical Trial.

Kishnani PS(1), Diaz-Manera J(2), Toscano A(3), Clemens PR(4)(5), Ladha S(6), 
Berger KI(7)(8), Kushlaf H(9)(10), Straub V(2), Carvalho G(11), Mozaffar T(12), 
Roberts M(13), Attarian S(14), Chien YH(15), Choi YC(16), Day JW(17)(18), 
Erdem-Ozdamar S(19), Illarioshkin S(20), Goker-Alpan O(21), Kostera-Pruszczyk 
A(22), van der Ploeg AT(23), An Haack K(24), Huynh-Ba O(24), Tammireddy S(25), 
Thibault N(25), Zhou T(25), Dimachkie MM(26), Schoser B(27); COMET Investigator 
Group.

Collaborators: Behin A, Boentert M, Carvalho G, Chahin N, Charrow J, Deegan P, 
Durmus Tekce H, Duval F, Genge A, Gutmann L, Henderson RD, Hennermann JB, Hiwot 
T, Hughes D, Karaa A, Karam C, Kautzky-Willer A, Komaki H, Laforet P, Longo N, 
Malinova V, Maré R, Maxit C, Mengel E, Moggio MG, Molnár MJ, Mongini TE, 
Nadaj-Pakleza A, Nascimento Osorio A, Noury JB, Oliveira ASB, Parman Y, Pena L, 
Remiche G, Sciacco M, Shieh PBS, Smith C, Stulnig T, Taithe F, Tard C, 
Tarnopolsky M, Vorgerd M, Whitley C, Young P, Alonso-Pérez J, Altemus P, 
Aubé-Nathier AC, Avelar JB, Bailey C, Bekircan-Kurt CE, Billy J, Boschi S, Brown 
KE, Carrera Garcia L, Chase L, Cirne H, Danjoux L, Davion JB, DeArmey S, 
Fedotova E, Gandolfo E, Grosz Z, Guellec D, Guettsches AK, Guglieri M, Hatcher 
E, Helms S, Hufgard-Leitner M, Klyushnikov SA, Langton J, Linková L, Mavroudakis 
N, Mazurová S, Mori M, Müller-Miny L, Musumeci O, Nance CS, Natera-de Benito D, 
Neel R, Niizawa GA, Noll L, Ortega E, Pasnoor M, Pautot V, Potulska-Chromik A, 
Pugliese A, Questienne C, Ramos Lopes M, Reyes-Leiva D, Riedl M, Rugiero MF, 
Salort-Campana E, Sgobbi Souza PV, Sole G, Solera L, Souto Lopes S, Specht S, 
Statland J, Swenson A, Tan CY, Tizon S, van der Beek NAME, van Kooten HA, Wencel 
M, Wenninger S, Zagnoli F.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Genetics, Department of Pediatrics, Duke University 
Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.
(2)Newcastle University John Walton Muscular Dystrophy Research Centre, 
Newcastle Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Newcastle Upon Tyne, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Reference Center for Rare 
Neuromuscular Disorders, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(4)Department of Neurology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(5)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(6)Gregory W. Fulton ALS and Neuromuscular Center, Barrow Neurological 
Institute, Phoenix, Arizona.
(7)Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, NYU Grossman School 
of Medicine, New York, New York.
(8)André Cournand Pulmonary Physiology Laboratory, Bellevue Hospital, New York, 
New York.
(9)Department of Neurology and Rehabilitation Medicine, University of 
Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio.
(10)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Cincinnati, 
Cincinnati, Ohio.
(11)Instituto Chronos de Apoio à Pesquisa, Brasília, Brazil.
(12)Department of Neurology, University of California, Irvine, Orange.
(13)Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Salford, United Kingdom.
(14)Referral Centre for Neuromuscular Diseases and ALS, European Reference 
Network Neuromuscular Diseases, Hôpital La Timone, Marseille, France.
(15)Department of Medical Genetics and Pediatrics, National Taiwan University 
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(16)Gangnam Severance Hospital, Yonsei University, College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea.
(17)Department of Neurology, Stanford University, Stanford, California.
(18)Department of Pediatrics, Stanford University, Stanford, California.
(19)Department of Neurology, Hacettepe University Faculty of Medicine, Ankara, 
Turkey.
(20)Research Center of Neurology, Moscow, Russia.
(21)Lysosomal and Rare Disorders Research and Treatment Center, Fairfax, 
Virginia.
(22)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(23)Center for Lysosomal and Metabolic Diseases, Erasmus MC, University Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(24)Sanofi, Chilly-Mazarin, France.
(25)Sanofi, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
(26)University of Kansas Medical Center, Department of Neurology, Kansas City.
(27)Friedrich-Baur-Institute, Department of Neurology, LMU Klinikum, München, 
München, Germany.

IMPORTANCE: In the previously reported Comparative Enzyme Replacement Trial With 
neoGAA Versus rhGAA (COMET) trial, avalglucosidase alfa treatment for 49 weeks 
showed clinically meaningful improvements in upright forced vital capacity (FVC) 
percent predicted and 6-minute walk test (6MWT) compared with alglucosidase 
alfa.
OBJECTIVE: To report avalglucosidase alfa treatment outcomes during the COMET 
trial extension.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This phase 3 double-blind randomized clinical 
trial with crossover in the extension period enrolled patients 3 years and older 
with previously untreated late-onset Pompe disease (LOPD) between November 2, 
2016, and February 10, 2021, with primary analysis after 49 weeks. Patients were 
treated at 55 referral centers in 20 countries. Efficacy outcomes were assessed 
at 97 weeks and safety outcomes to last follow-up, with data cutoff at February 
10, 2021. Data were analyzed from May to June 2021.
INTERVENTIONS: Random assignment (1:1) to receive 20 mg/kg of avalglucosidase 
alfa or alglucosidase alfa by intravenous infusion every other week for 49 
weeks; thereafter, all patients received 20 mg/kg of avalglucosidase alfa every 
other week.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcome was the least squares (LS) mean 
change from baseline in FVC percent predicted. Secondary outcomes included the 
LS mean change from baseline in 6MWT, muscle strength, motor function, quality 
of life, and disease biomarkers. Safety and tolerability were also assessed.
RESULTS: Of 100 participants from the double-blind treatment period, 95 entered 
the extension period. Of these, 51 (54%) were men, and the mean (range) age was 
48.3 (10-79) years. At the start of this study, mean upright FVC percent 
predicted was similar between treatment arms, and 6MWT distance was greater in 
the avalglucosidase alfa arm. From baseline to week 97, LS mean (SE) FVC percent 
predicted increased by 2.65 (1.05) for those who continued avalglucosidase alfa 
and 0.36 (1.12) for those who switched to avalglucosidase alfa. The LS mean (SE) 
6MWT distance increased by 18.60 (12.01) m and 4.56 (12.44) m, respectively. For 
participants who switched to avalglucosidase alfa, FVC percent predicted 
remained stable (LS mean [SE] change from week 49 to 97, 0.09 [0.88]) and 6MWT 
distance improved (LS mean [SE] change from week 49 to 97, 5.33 [10.81] m). 
Potentially treatment-related adverse events were reported in 29 patients 
(56.9%) who continued avalglucosidase alfa and in 25 patients (56.8%) who 
switched.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this randomized clinical trial extension, 
maintenance of positive clinical outcomes was demonstrated for patients 
continuing avalglucosidase alfa treatment and, to a lesser extent, patients who 
switched from alglucosidase alfa. No new safety concerns were observed.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02782741.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2023.0552
PMCID: PMC10087094
PMID: 37036722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Kishnani 
has received grants from Sanofi Genzyme, Amicus Therapeutics, and Valerion as 
well as personal fees from Sanofi Genzyme, Amicus Therapeutics, Maze 
Therapeutics, JCR Pharmaceutical, Vertex, and Asklepios Biopharmaceutical 
(AskBio) during the conduct of the study; serves on advisory boards for Sanofi 
Genzyme, Amicus Therapeutics, and Baebies; and holds equity in Asklepios 
Biopharmaceutical (AskBio), Baebies, and Maze Therapeutics. Dr Diaz-Manera has 
received grants from Sanofi, Spark, Boehringer Ingelheim, and Audiences as well 
as personal fees from Sanofi, Amicus, Lupin, Sarepta, and PTC Therapeutics 
during the conduct of the study. Dr Toscano has received personal fees from 
Sanofi. Dr Clemens has received grants from Sanofi during the conduct of the 
study; grants from Amicus, NS Pharma, Spark, ReveraGen Biopharma, National 
Institutes of Health, and US Food and Drug Administration; institutional funding 
from Foundation to Eradicate Duchenne; and personal fees from Roche, Epirium, 
Spark, and NS Pharma outside the submitted work. Dr Ladha has received grants 
and personal fees from Sanofi outside the submitted work. Dr Berger has received 
personal fees from Sanofi during the conduct of the study as well as personal 
fees from Asklepios Biopharmaceutical (AskBio), Spark, Takeda, Amicus, and 
Valerion outside the submitted work. Dr Kushlaf has received grants from 
Muscular Dystrophy Association and Healey ALS Platform as well as personal fees 
from Sanofi, Akcea, Alexion, AstraZeneca, Argenx, Immunovant, UCB, Catalyst 
Pharmaceuticals, and PTC Therapeutics outside the submitted work. Dr Straub has 
received grants from Sanofi during the conduct of the study; grants from 
Astellas Gene Therapy and Ultragenyx; and personal fees from AveXis, Exonics 
Therapeutic, Roche, Sanofi, and Sarepta Therapeutics outside the submitted work. 
Dr Mozaffar has received grants from Sanofi, Amicus, Alexion, Alnylam, Baxter, 
Bio-Blast, Biogen, BioMarin, CSL Behring, Valerion, Spark, Astellas Gene 
Therapy, Grifols, GlaxoSmithKline, Idera, ISIS Pharmaceuticals, National 
Institutes of Health, Novartis, and Ultragenyx as well as personal fees from 
Amicus, BioMarin, Idera, Grifols, Novartis, Sanofi, Ultragenyx, Maze 
Therapeutics, NuFactor, Sarepta Therapeutics, and Walgreens during the conduct 
of the study. Dr Roberts has received grants from Amicus; personal fees from 
Sanofi, BioMarin, NIL, and Amicus; and royalties from NIL. Dr Chien has received 
grants and personal fees from Sanofi outside the submitted work. Dr Day has 
received grants from Biogen, Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Cytokinetics, Roche, AveXis, 
Sanofi, Sarepta Therapeutics, and Scholar Rock as well as personal fees from 
Audentes, Biogen, Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Cytokinetics, Pfizer, AveXis, 
Roche/Genentech Pharmaceuticals, AMO Pharmaceuticals, and Sarepta Therapeutics. 
Dr Erdem-Ozdamar has received personal fees from Sanofi-Genzyme, Pfizer, Biogen, 
GlaxoSmithKline, CSL Behring, and Alexion outside the submitted work. Dr 
Illarioshkin has received personal fees from Actelion, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Ever Pharma, Merz Pharma, Servier, Takeda, and Teva. Dr Goker-Alpan has received 
grants from Sanofi-Genzyme during the conduct of the study; grants from Amicus, 
Freeline, Genentech, Protalix, Sangamo, Sanofi, and Takeda; and personal fees 
from Sanofi-Genzyme, Amicus, BioMarin, Sanofi, Shire HGT, and Takeda outside the 
submitted work. Dr Kostera-Pruszczyk has received grants from Sanofi-Genzyme and 
Biogen; personal fees from Sanofi-Genzyme, Biogen, PTC Therapeutics, Roche, 
Novartis, Argenx, Takeda, CSL Behring, and UCB; and nonfinancial support from 
Sanofi-Genzyme, Biogen, PTC Therapeutics, Roche, and CSL Behring outside the 
submitted work. Dr van der Ploeg has received grants and personal fees from 
Sanofi-Genzyme paid to his institution during the conduct of the study as well 
as grants and personal fees from Amicus Therapeutics, Spark, and Denali paid to 
his institution outside the submitted work. Dr An Haack has a patent for 
US8759501 issued and a patent for PCT/US2021/037111 pending. Dr Dimachkie has 
received grants, personal fees, and nonfinancial support from Sanofi during the 
conduct of the study; grants from Amicus, BioMarin, Spark, Abcuro, Alexion, 
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Bristol Myers Squibb, Catalyst, Corbus, CSL Behring, US 
Food and Drug Administration/Office of Orphan Products Development, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Genentech, Grifols, Kezar, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, MDA, 
National Institutes of Health, Novartis, Octapharma, Orphazyme, Ra Pharma/UCB, 
Sarepta Therapeutics, Shire Takeda, The Myositis Association, 
Viromed/Healixmith, and TMA; and personal fees from MDA, Astellas, Spark, 
Abcuro, Amazentis, ArgenX, Catalyst, Covance/Labcorp, CSL Behring, Cello, 
Eco-R1, Janssen, Kezar, Medlink, Momenta, NuFactor, Octapharma, Priovant, 
RaPharma/UCB, RMS Medical, Roivant Sciences, Shire Takeda, Scholar Rock, 
Abata/Third Rock, UCB Biopharma, and UpToDate outside the submitted work. Dr 
Schoser has received grants from Amicus as well as personal fees from Sanofi, 
Amicus, Taysha, Pepgen, Avrobio, Kedrion, Astellas, and Argenx outside the 
submitted work. No other disclosures were reported.


736. Circulation. 2023 Apr 11;147(15):1137-1146. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.122.062457. Epub 2023 Apr 10.

Cardiovascular Health and Life Expectancy Among Adults in the United States.

Ma H(#)(1), Wang X(#)(1), Xue Q(1), Li X(1), Liang Z(2), Heianza Y(1), Franco 
OH(3), Qi L(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, 
Tulane University, New Orleans, LA (H.M., X.W., Q.X., X.L., Y.H., L.Q.).
(2)Obstetrical Department, Women's Hospital, Zhejiang University School of 
Medicine, Hangzhou, China (Z.L.).
(3)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht University, The Netherlands (O.H.F.).
(4)Department of Nutrition, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA (L.Q.).
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease may be the main reason for stagnant growth in 
life expectancy in the United States since 2010. The American Heart Association 
recently released an updated algorithm for evaluating cardiovascular health 
(CVH)-Life's Essential 8 (LE8) score. We aimed to quantify the associations of 
CVH levels, estimated by the LE8 score, with life expectancy in a nationally 
representative sample of US adults.
METHODS: We included 23 003 nonpregnant, noninstitutionalized participants aged 
20 to 79 years who participated in the National Health and Nutrition Examination 
Survey from 2005 to 2018 and whose mortality was identified through linkage to 
the National Death Index through December 31, 2019. The overall CVH was 
evaluated by the LE8 score (range, 0-100), as well as the score for each 
component of diet, physical activity, tobacco/nicotine exposure, sleep duration, 
body mass index, non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, blood glucose, and 
blood pressure. Life table method was used to estimate life expectancy by levels 
of the CVH.
RESULTS: During a median of 7.8 years of follow-up, 1359 total deaths occurred. 
The estimated life expectancy at age 50 years was 27.3 years (95% CI, 
26.1-28.4), 32.9 years (95% CI, 32.3-33.4), and 36.2 years (95% CI, 34.2-38.2) 
in participants with low (LE8 score <50), moderate (50≤ LE8 score <80), and high 
(LE8 score ≥80) CVH, respectively. Equivalently, participants with high CVH had 
an average 8.9 (95% CI, 6.2-11.5) more years of life expectancy at age 50 years 
compared with those with low CVH. On average, 42.6% of the gained life 
expectancy at age 50 years from adhering to high CVH was attributable to reduced 
cardiovascular disease death. Similarly significant associations of CVH with 
life expectancy were observed in men and women, respectively. Similarly 
significant associations of CVH with life expectancy were observed in White 
participants and Black participants but not in Mexican participants.
CONCLUSIONS: Adhering to a high CVH, defined as the LE8 score, is related to a 
considerably increased life expectancy in US adults, but more research needs to 
be done in other races and ethnicities (eg, Hispanic and Asian).

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.122.062457
PMCID: PMC10165723
PMID: 37036905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2023 Apr 18;120(16):e2300154120. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2300154120. Epub 2023 Apr 10.

Compensatory relationship between low-complexity regions and gene paralogy in 
the evolution of prokaryotes.

Persi E(1), Wolf YI(1), Karamycheva S(1), Makarova KS(1), Koonin EV(1).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Biotechnology Information, National Library of Medicine, 
NIH, Bethesda, MD 20894.

The evolution of genomes in all life forms involves two distinct, dynamic types 
of genomic changes: gene duplication (and loss) that shape families of 
paralogous genes and extension (and contraction) of low-complexity regions 
(LCR), which occurs through dynamics of short repeats in protein-coding genes. 
Although the roles of each of these types of events in genome evolution have 
been studied, their co-evolutionary dynamics is not thoroughly understood. Here, 
by analyzing a wide range of genomes from diverse bacteria and archaea, we show 
that LCR and paralogy represent two distinct routes of evolution that are 
inversely correlated. The emergence of LCR is a prominent evolutionary mechanism 
in fast evolving, young protein families, whereas paralogy dominates the 
comparatively slow evolution of old protein families. The analysis of multiple 
prokaryotic genomes shows that the formation of LCR is likely a widespread, 
transient evolutionary mechanism that temporally and locally affects also 
ancestral functions, but apparently, fades away with time, under mutational and 
selective pressures, yielding to gene paralogy. We propose that compensatory 
relationships between short-term and longer-term evolutionary mechanisms are 
universal in the evolution of life.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2300154120
PMCID: PMC10120016
PMID: 37036997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.


738. J Affect Disord. 2023 Jul 1;332:247-253. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2023.04.006.
Epub  2023 Apr 8.

Ferritin as a potential disease marker in patients with bipolar disorder.

Munkholm K(1), Jacoby AS(2), Vinberg M(3), Kessing LV(4).

Author information:
(1)Copenhagen Affective Disorder Research Centre (CADIC), Psychiatric Centre 
Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Denmark; Mental Health Centre Copenhagen, Copenhagen 
University Hospital - Mental Health Services CPH, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
Electronic address: klaus.munkholm@regionh.dk.
(2)Child and youth Mental Health Centre, Capital Region of Denmark, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(3)Copenhagen Affective Disorder Research Centre (CADIC), Psychiatric Centre 
Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Denmark; Dept of Clinical Medicine, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark; Mental Health Centre Northern Zealand, The 
Early Multimodular Prevention and Intervention Research Institution (EMPIRI) - 
Mental Health Services CPH, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Copenhagen Affective Disorder Research Centre (CADIC), Psychiatric Centre 
Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Denmark; Mental Health Centre Copenhagen, Copenhagen 
University Hospital - Mental Health Services CPH, Copenhagen, Denmark; Dept of 
Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Low-grade inflammation and oxidative stress have been implicated as 
potential pathophysiological processes in bipolar disorder, but the underlying 
mechanism is unknown. Ferritin is a marker of iron stores and involved in redox 
processes and inflammation but its role in bipolar disorder is unclear.
METHODS: We investigated the possible association of increased plasma ferritin 
levels and bipolar disorder. We pooled two studies using similar longitudinal 
repeated measures designs and included 330 blood- and urinary samples from 95 
patients with bipolar disorder across all affective states and 84 samples from 
84 healthy control individuals. Plasma ferritin was measured along with multiple 
blood inflammatory markers and urinary markers of oxidatively generated damage 
to DNA and RNA.
RESULTS: Plasma ferritin levels, adjusting for multiple demographical- and 
lifestyle variables, did not differ between patients with bipolar disorder 
compared with healthy control individuals (b = 1.09, 95 % CI: 0.86 to 1.39, 
p = 0.49). Within patients with bipolar disorder ferritin levels were higher in 
a depressed state compared with euthymia (b = 1.12, 95 % CI: 1.01 to 1.24, 
p < 0.04), and ferritin levels were positively associated with Interleukin-18 
blood levels and urinary levels of 8-oxodG.
LIMITATIONS: Patients with bipolar disorder received medication which could 
potentially influence iron metabolism.
CONCLUSION: Elevated ferritin levels in depressed patients with bipolar disorder 
may point to a role for iron metabolism in bipolar disorder pathophysiology, and 
potentially as a biomarker, linking low-grade inflammation with redox biology 
and the well-known increased risk of medical comorbidity and reduced life 
expectancy.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2023.04.006
PMID: 37037316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest KM and ASJ report no 
conflicts of interest. LVK has within recent three years been a consultant for 
Teva and Lundbeck. MV has within the last three years been a consultant for 
Lundbeck and Jannsen-Cilag.


739. Cold Spring Harb Perspect Med. 2023 Apr 10:a041208. doi: 
10.1101/cshperspect.a041208. Online ahead of print.

Funding Life-Extension Research.

Khan M(1).

Author information:
(1)Hevolution Foundation, KAFD, Riyadh 13519, Saudi Arabia 
m.khan@hevolution.com.

While the worldwide trend in life expectancy continues to increase slightly 
overall, the trend for the last few decades in developed countries is that more 
people are spending more years in poor health with multiple chronic 
comorbidities. These chronic conditions in aging populations consume high 
