Alamowitch S(7), Ederhy S(8), Epaud R(9), Dupuis-Girod S(10), Cadranel J(11).

Author information:
(1)Service de pneumologie, centre de compétence de la maladie de Rendu-Osler, 
hôpital Tenon, AP-HP, 75020 Paris, France. Electronic address: 
antoine.parrot@aphp.fr.
(2)Service de radiologie, hôpital Tenon, AP-HP, 75020 Paris, France; UFR 
médecine, Sorbonne université, 75006 Paris, France.
(3)Service de gastroentérologie, hôpital Tenon, AP-HP, 75020 Paris, France.
(4)Service de médecine interne, hôpital Tenon, AP-HP, 75020 Paris, France.
(5)Service d'ORL, hôpital Tenon, AP-HP, 75020 Paris, France.
(6)Service de génétique, hôpital de la Pitié-Salpetrière, AP-HP, 75020 Paris, 
France.
(7)Service des urgences cérébrovasculaires, hôpital de la Pitié-Salpetrière, 
AP-HP, 75020 Paris, France.
(8)Service de cardiologie et GRC no 27, hôpital Saint-Antoine, AP-HP, 75020 
Paris, France.
(9)Service de pédiatrie, centre intercommunaux de Créteil, Créteil, France.
(10)Service de génétique, centre de référence pour la maladie de Rendu-Osler, 
hospices civils de Lyon, hôpital Mère-Enfant, 69500 Bron, France.
(11)Service de pneumologie, centre de compétence de la maladie de Rendu-Osler, 
hôpital Tenon, AP-HP, 75020 Paris, France; UFR médecine, Sorbonne université, 
75006 Paris, France.

Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia, also known as Rendu-Osler - Weber 
disease, is a rare, autosomal dominant vascular disease, with prevalence of 
1/5,000. The condition is characterized by muco-cutaneous telangiectasias, which 
are responsible for a hemorrhagic syndrome of variable severity, as well as 
arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) appearing in the lungs, the liver, and the 
nervous system. They can be the source of shunts, which may be associated with 
high morbidity (neurological ischemic stroke, brain abscess, high-output heart 
failure, biliary ischemia…). It is therefore crucial to establish a clinical 
diagnosis using the Curaçao criteria or molecular diagnosis based on genetic 
analysis of the ENG, ACVRL1, SMAD4 and GDF2 genes. In most cases, 
multidisciplinary management allows patients to have normal life expectancy. 
Advances in interventional radiology and better understanding of the 
pathophysiology of angiogenesis have resulted in improved therapeutic 
management. Anti-angiogenic treatments, such as bevacizumab (BVZ, an anti-VEGF 
antibody), have proven to be effective in cases involving bleeding complications 
and severe liver damage with cardiac repercussions. Other anti-angiogenic agents 
are currently being investigated, including tyrosine kinase inhibitors.

Copyright © 2023 SPLF. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmr.2023.02.007
PMID: 37062633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Med Res Rev. 2023 Sep;43(5):1701-1747. doi: 10.1002/med.21961. Epub 2023 Apr
16.

Current and emerging approaches to noncompetitive AR inhibition.

Riley CM(1), Elwood JML(1), Henry MC(1), Hunter I(2), Daniel Lopez-Fernandez 
J(1), McEwan IJ(2), Jamieson C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pure and Applied Chemistry, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, 
UK.
(2)Institute of Medical Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.

The androgen receptor (AR) has been shown to be a key determinant in the 
pathogenesis of castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). The current 
standard of care therapies targets the ligand-binding domain of the receptor and 
can afford improvements to life expectancy often only in the order of months 
before resistance occurs. Emerging preclinical and clinical compounds that 
inhibit receptor activity via differentiated mechanisms of action which are 
orthogonal to current antiandrogens show promise for overcoming treatment 
resistance. In this review, we present an authoritative summary of molecules 
that noncompetitively target the AR. Emerging small molecule strategies for 
targeting alternative domains of the AR represent a promising area of research 
that shows significant potential for future therapies. The overall quality of 
lead candidates in the area of noncompetitive AR inhibition is discussed, and it 
identifies the key chemotypes and associated properties which are likely to be, 
or are currently, positioned to be first in human applications.

© 2023 The Authors. Medicinal Research Reviews published by Wiley Periodicals 
LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/med.21961
PMID: 37062876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Health Sci Rep. 2023 Apr 11;6(4):e1208. doi: 10.1002/hsr2.1208. eCollection
2023  Apr.

Applications of yoga in oral oncology: A systematic scoping review.

Kanmodi KK(1)(2)(3), Braimah RO(4), Amzat J(5)(6), Salami AA(3)(7), Nnyanzi 
LA(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Life Sciences Teesside University Middlesbrough UK.
(2)Faculty of Dentistry University of Puthisastra Phnom Penh Cambodia.
(3)Campaign for Head and Neck Cancer Education (CHANCE) Programme Ibadan 
Nigeria.
(4)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Faculty of Dental Sciences 
Usmanu Danfodiyo University Sokoto Nigeria.
(5)Department of Sociology Usmanu Danfodiyo University Sokoto Nigeria.
(6)Department of Sociology University of Johannesburg Johannesburg South Africa.
(7)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery University College Hospital 
Ibadan Nigeria.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Yoga is well-thought-out as an all-inclusive approach 
globally and can be administered in clinical care as an integrative or alternate 
approach to regular treatment. Yoga exercise has been disclosed to influence 
remission from cancer cells over a long period of time and also reverses 
epigenetic alterations. Applications of Yoga in the management of oral oncology 
patients are scarce, hence the need for a scoping review of the literature. 
Hence, this study aimed to conduct a scoping review of the existing empirical 
evidence on the applications of yoga in oral oncology.
METHODS: The review methodology was informed by Joanna Brigg's Institute 
guidelines for systematic scoping reviews, and the review was reported in 
accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and 
Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews. Ten databases were searched. The 
records of all the literature retrieved from the search were imported into the 
Rayyan software for deduplication. After the full-text screening, only two were 
found eligible for inclusion in the scoping review. Data obtained in the 
included literature were extracted and synthesized.
RESULTS: This review found that Yoga was not significantly effective in the 
management of stress among oral cancer patients (p-values > 0.04). However, it 
was found that Yoga significantly reduced anxiety, saliva stickiness, and 
episodes of falling ill (p-values < 0.05) while it improved mental well-being, 
cognitive functioning, emotional functioning, and head and neck pain of those 
oral cancer patients that received it (p-values < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: An integrative care approach that considers nonpharmaceutical 
techniques such as yoga could help to reduce care cost while improving care 
outcomes and quality of life of oral cancer patients. Hence, it is imperative to 
consider yoga along with its potential benefits, and we recommend gradual 
incorporation of yoga into oral cancer care.

© 2023 The Authors. Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/hsr2.1208
PMCID: PMC10090801
PMID: 37064316

Conflict of interest statement: Kehinde Kazeem Kanmodi is an Editorial Board 
member of Health Science Reports. and a coauthor of this article. To minimize 
bias, they were excluded from all editorial decision‐making related to the 
acceptance of this article for publication. Other authors have no conflict of 
interest to declare.


830. Front Public Health. 2023 Mar 30;11:1145564. doi:
10.3389/fpubh.2023.1145564.  eCollection 2023.

Information and communication technology development and health gap nexus in 
Africa.

Megbowon ET(1), David OO(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Economic Science, North-West University, Vanderbijlpark, South 
Africa.

INTRODUCTION: Development of information and communication technology has been 
identified as a tool for fast and effective information gathering and 
dissemination, and as a means through which almost every social and economic 
sector (including the health sector) could achieve economic, operational, and 
service delivery efficiencies that can enable the realization of targeted 
outcomes. ICT can serve as a tool for achieving international agreements 
(including the Alma Ata Declaration of 1978), thereby accelerating the 
achievement of various global development targets.
METHODS: Consequently, based on a sample of 38 countries from 2000 to 2018, this 
study investigates the effect of ICT development on the health gap, and whether 
the effect varies by gender and sub-region in Africa. The dependent variable 
(health gap) was measured as the difference between the achieved life expectancy 
at birth of 60 years and the Alma Ata Declaration of 1978 targeted life 
expectancy at birth of 60 years. The main independent variables are ICT 
indicators (ICT index, mobile cellular subscriptions, and internet access), 
while the gross domestic product (GDP), which is the measure of economic growth, 
healthcare expenditure, urbanization, and labor market outcome, is employed as 
control variables. The effect was examined using Driscoll-Kraay standard errors, 
feasible generalized least squares (FGLS), and panel-corrected standard error 
(PCSE).
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The findings of the Driscoll-Kraay standard errors 
estimation technique supported by those of FGLS and PCSE suggest that ICT does 
act as an indispensable stimulator for Africa to significantly exceed the 
international health target of life expectancy at birth of 60 years. It can be 
concluded that African leaders need to take advantage and maximize the 
health-enhancing potential of the internet component of ICT through relevant 
policies that would improve internet coverage, connectivity, and access for 
individuals and health institutions.

Copyright © 2023 Megbowon and David.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1145564
PMCID: PMC10097944
PMID: 37064667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


831. Front Physiol. 2023 Mar 30;14:1155455. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2023.1155455. 
eCollection 2023.

Effects of chlorantraniliprole on the life history traits of fall armyworm 
Spodoptera frugiperda (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae).

Hasnain A(1)(2)(3), Zhang S(1)(2), Chen Q(4), Xia L(5), Wu Y(2), Gong C(1)(2), 
Liu X(1)(2), Jian P(1)(2), Zhang L(6), Wang X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Crop Gene Exploration and Utilization in Southwest 
China, Sichuan Agricultural University, Chengdu, China.
(2)College of Agriculture, Sichuan Agricultural University, Chengdu, China.
(3)College of Plant Protection, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Integrated Pest Management on Crops in Southwest, Institute 
of Plant Protection, Sichuan Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Ministry of 
Agriculture, Chengdu, China.
(5)Talent Development Service Center, Sichuan Provincial Department of 
Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Chengdu, China.
(6)Department of Entomology, China Agricultural University, Beijing, China.

Erratum in
    Front Physiol. 2023 May 12;14:1211689.

Introduction: Spodoptera frugiperda is an important nomadic agricultural pest 
with a diverse host range and resistance against several insecticides. The 
current study investigated the life history traits of two strains of the 
field-collected population against chlorantraniliprole using an age-stage 
two-sex life table. Method: For this, we established the 
chlorantraniliprole-susceptible (Crp-SUS G12), and chlorantraniliprole-reduced 
susceptible (Crp-RES G12) strains derived from the sixth generation of the QJ-20 
population having a resistance ratio (RR) of 10.39-fold, compared with the 
reported susceptible population. Results: The results showed that the 
chlorantraniliprole-reduced susceptible strain attained a 4.0-fold RR, while the 
chlorantraniliprole-susceptible strain attained an RR of 0.85-fold, having 
overlapped fiducial limits (FLs) with the referred susceptible baseline. 
Meanwhile, the present study revealed that the development time of the 
susceptible strain was significantly longer than that of the reduced susceptible 
strain. Similarly, the mean longevity, adult pre-oviposition period (APOP), and 
total pre-oviposition period (TPOP) of the female 
chlorantraniliprole-susceptible strain were considerably longer than those of 
the female chlorantraniliprole-reduced susceptible strain. Contrarily, the 
population parameters, including the intrinsic rate of increase (r), finite rate 
of increase (λ), and net reproductive rate (R), of the 
chlorantraniliprole-susceptible strain were considerably lower than those of the 
chlorantraniliprole-reduced susceptible strain, while the mean generation time 
(T) of the chlorantraniliprole-susceptible strain was substantially longer than 
the chlorantraniliprole-reduced susceptible strain. The age-stage characteristic 
survival rate (s xj ) and age-stage characteristic life expectancy (e xj ) of 
the chlorantraniliprole-susceptible strain were longer than those of the 
chlorantraniliprole-reduced susceptible strain, but the age-stage-specific 
reproductive value (v xj ) of the chlorantraniliprole-susceptible strain was 
shorter than that of the chlorantraniliprole-reduced susceptible strain. 
Moreover, the contents of vitellogenin (Vg) and VgR in the 
chlorantraniliprole-reduced susceptible strain were higher than those in the 
chlorantraniliprole-susceptible strain. Discussion: These findings showed that 
reducing susceptibility to chlorantraniliprole promoted population growth in S. 
frugiperda. Therefore, this study could provide conceptual support for the 
integrated pest management (IPM) approach to control S. frugiperda in the field.

Copyright © 2023 Hasnain, Zhang, Chen, Xia, Wu, Gong, Liu, Jian, Zhang and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2023.1155455
PMCID: PMC10098106
PMID: 37064906

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The reviewer PL declared a 
shared affiliation with the author LZ to the handling editor at the time of 
review.


832. Cureus. 2023 Mar 14;15(3):e36115. doi: 10.7759/cureus.36115. eCollection
2023  Mar.

Dubin-Johnson Syndrome: A Case Report.

Siddiqui AH(1), Alsabe MR(2), Tehseen Z(3), Hatamleh MI(4), Taslim S(5), 
Abdelrahman A(6), Saleem F(3).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, University Hospital Derby and Burton, Derby, GBR.
(2)Medicine, Ross University School of Medicine, Queens, USA.
(3)Internal Medicine, California Institute of Behavioral Neurosciences and 
Psychology, California, USA.
(4)Internal Medicine, King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz University Hospital, Amman, 
JOR.
(5)Internal Medicine, Ross University School of Medicine, Far Rockaway, USA.
(6)Medicine, Inova Alexandria Hospital, Virginia, USA.

Dubin-Johnson syndrome (DJS) is a rare autosomal recessive genetic disease 
caused by mutations in the bilirubin transporter MRP2. It is characterized by 
recurrent episodes of jaundice and conjugated hyperbilirubinemia. Numerous 
instances of hyperbilirubinemia disorders resembling Dubin-Johnson syndrome have 
been documented, but they differ in the clinical presentation, amount of 
conjugated bilirubin present, and their reaction to therapy. Most people with 
this syndrome do not have any symptoms, so their cases are often misdiagnosed 
and not properly taken care of. Here, we present a case of a teenage male 
patient who complained of recurring jaundice and abdominal pain. Further 
examination and testing revealed that the patient had been jaundiced since birth 
and had a family history of the condition. Conservative management was 
implemented, and follow-up demonstrated a positive prognosis. This case is a 
rare example of Dubin-Johnson syndrome, although patients with the condition 
generally have a normal life expectancy and only require conservative 
management.

Copyright © 2023, Siddiqui et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.36115
PMCID: PMC10099096
PMID: 37065356

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


833. Ment Health Phys Act. 2023 Mar;24:100510. doi: 10.1016/j.mhpa.2023.100510.
Epub  2023 Feb 11.

Aerobic exercise after extinction learning reduces return of fear and enhances 
memory of items encoded during extinction learning.

Crombie KM(1), Azar A(1), Botsford C(2), Heilicher M(2), Moughrabi N(1), 
Gruichich TS(2), Schomaker CM(1), Dunsmoor JE(1), Cisler JM(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)The University of Texas at Austin, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral 
Sciences, 1601 Trinity Street, Building B, Austin, Texas, United States of 
America 78712.
(2)University of Wisconsin - Madison, Department of Psychiatry, 6001 Research 
Park Boulevard, Madison, Wisconsin, United States of America, 53719.
(3)Institute for Early Life Adversity Research, The University of Texas at 
Austin Dell Medical School, 1601 Trinity Street, Building B, Austin, Texas, 
United States of America 78712.

Fear conditioning paradigms are widely used in laboratory settings to discover 
treatments that enhance memory consolidation and various fear processes 
(extinction learning, limit return of fear) that are relevant targets of 
exposure-based therapies. However, traditional lab-based paradigms often use the 
exact same conditioned stimuli for acquisition and extinction (typically 
differentiated with a context manipulation), whereas the opposite is true in 
clinical settings, as exposure therapy rarely (if ever) uses precisely the exact 
same stimuli from an individual's learning history. Accordingly, this study 
utilized a novel three-day category-based fear conditioning protocol (that uses 
categories of non-repeating objects [animals and tools] as conditioned stimuli 
during fear conditioning and extinction) to determine if aerobic exercise 
enhances the consolidation of extinction learning (reduces return of fear) and 
memory (for items encoded during extinction) during subsequent tests of 
extinction recall. Participants (n=40) completed a fear acquisition (day 1), 
fear extinction (day 2), and extinction recall (day 3) protocol. On day 1, 
participants completed a fear acquisition task in which they were trained to 
associate a category of conditioned stimuli (CS+) with the occurrence of an 
unconditioned stimulus (US). On day 2, participants were administered a fear 
extinction procedure during which CS+ and CS- categorical stimuli were presented 
in absence of the occurrence of the US. After completing the task, participants 
were randomly assigned to either receive moderate-intensity aerobic exercise 
(EX) or a light-intensity control (CON) condition. On day 3, participants 
completed fear recall tests (during which day 1, day 2, and novel CS+ and CS- 
stimuli were presented). Fear responding was assessed via threat expectancy 
ratings and skin conductance responses (SCR). During the fear recall tests, the 
EX group reported significantly lower threat expectancy ratings to the CS+ and 
CS- and exhibited greater memory of CS+ and CS- stimuli that were previously 
presented during day 2. There were no significant group differences for SCR. 
These results suggests that administration of moderate-intensity aerobic 
exercise following extinction learning contributes to reduced threat 
expectancies during tests of fear recall and enhanced memory of items encoded 
during extinction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mhpa.2023.100510
PMCID: PMC10104454
PMID: 37065640

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors have nothing 
to disclose.


834. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2023 Mar 30;14:1158099. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2023.1158099. eCollection 2023.

Resolving trabecular metaphyseal bone profiles downstream of the growth plate 
adds value to bone histomorphometry in mouse models.

Salmon PL(1), Monzem S(2), Javaheri B(2), Oste L(3), Kerckhofs G(4), Pitsillides 
AA(2).

Author information:
(1)Bruker Belgium (microCT), Preclinical Imaging, Kontich, Belgium.
(2)Skeletal Biology Group, Comparative Biomedical Sciences, Royal Veterinary 
College, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Galapagos NV, Discovery DMPK, Mechelen, Belgium.
(4)Biomechanics Lab, Institute of Mechanics, Materials and Civil Engineering, 
Katholiek Universiteit van Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

INTRODUCTION: Histomorphometry of rodent metaphyseal trabecular bone, by 
histology or microCT, is generally restricted to the mature secondary spongiosa, 
excluding the primary spongiosa nearest the growth plate by imposing an 
'offset'. This analyses the bulk static properties of a defined segment of 
secondary spongiosa, usually regardless of proximity to the growth plate. Here 
we assess the value of trabecular morphometry that is spatially resolved 
according to the distance 'downstream' of-and thus time since formation at-the 
growth plate. Pursuant to this, we also investigate the validity of including 
mixed primary-secondary spongiosal trabecular bone, extending the analysed 
volume 'upstream' by reducing the offset. Both the addition of spatiotemporal 
resolution and the extension of the analysed volume have potential to enhance 
the sensitivity of detection of trabecular changes and to resolve changes 
occurring at different times and locations.
METHOD: Two experimental mouse studies of trabecular bone are used as examples 
of different factors influencing metaphyseal trabecular bone: (1) ovariectomy 
(OVX) and pharmacological prevention of osteopenia and (2) limb disuse induced 
by sciatic neurectomy (SN). In a third study into offset rescaling, we also 
examine the relationship between age, tibia length, and primary spongiosal 
thickness.
RESULTS: Bone changes induced by either OVX or SN that were early or weak and 
marginal were more pronounced in the mixed primary-secondary upstream spongiosal 
region than in the downstream secondary spongiosa. A spatially resolved 
evaluation of the entire trabecular region found that significant differences 
between experimental and control bones remained undiminished either right up to 
or to within 100 μm from the growth plate. Intriguingly, our data revealed a 
remarkably linear downstream profile for fractal dimension in trabecular bone, 
arguing for an underlying homogeneity of the (re)modelling process throughout 
the entire metaphysis and against strict anatomical categorization into primary 
and secondary spongiosal regions. Finally, we find that a correlation between 
tibia length and primary spongiosal depth is well conserved except in very early 
and late life.
CONCLUSIONS: These data indicate that the spatially resolved analysis of 
metaphyseal trabecular bone at different distances from the growth plate and/or 
times since formation adds a valuable dimension to histomorphometric analysis. 
They also question any rationale for rejecting primary spongiosal bone, in 
principle, from metaphyseal trabecular morphometry.

Copyright © 2023 Salmon, Monzem, Javaheri, Oste, Kerckhofs and Pitsillides.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2023.1158099
PMCID: PMC10102859
PMID: 37065740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author PS is employed by Bruker; author LO is 
employed by Galapagos NV. The remaining authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


835. Trop Life Sci Res. 2023 Mar;34(1):139-150. doi: 10.21315/tlsr2023.34.1.9.
Epub  2023 Mar 31.

Comparative Morpho-Anatomical Studies of Two Philippine Endemic Species of 
Amyema Tiegh. (Loranthaceae).

Tubongbanua RM Jr(1), Mendez NP(2), Amoroso VB(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, College of Arts and Sciences, College of Arts and 
Sciences, Central Mindanao University, University Town, Musuan, 8710 Bukidnon, 
Philippines.
(2)Center for Biodiversity Research and Extension in Mindanao (CEBREM), Central 
Mindanao University, University Town, Musuan, 8710 Bukidnon, Philippines.

Amyema are epiphytic hemiparasitic plants on different types of woody host 
plants and are abundant in temperate, subtropical, and tropical regions. In 
Marilog Forest Reserve, Southern Philippines, two Philippine endemic species of 
Amyema were recorded, viz., Amyema curranii (Merr.) Danser and A. seriata 
(Merr.) Barlow. In this study, these two species were compared and examined for 
their morphology and anatomy. Data revealed that the two Amyema species are 
morphologically distinct, with A. curranii having lanceolate leaves, pink 
flowers, and red fruits, whereas A. seriata has obovate leaves, red flowers, and 
yellow fruits. For the morpho-anatomy, A. curranii has a single-layered 
epidermis, paracytic stomata, collateral open vascular bundles, the Eustele type 
of stele with pith at the center, and the inferior free central type with a 
hairy ovary wall. Meanwhile, A. seriata has a pinkish, single-layered epidermis, 
paracytic stomata, collateral open vascular bundles, a eustele type of stele 
with the presence of pith at the center, and an inferior free central ovary 
type. As a result, employing these species' gross morphology and anatomy could 
scrutinise future evaluations and taxonomic placements.

© Penerbit Universiti Sains Malaysia, 2023.

DOI: 10.21315/tlsr2023.34.1.9
PMCID: PMC10093764
PMID: 37065796


836. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2023 Apr;50(4):421-427.

[Life and Money? Life or Money? -Health Economic Assessment and Value Assessment 
for Oncology Medications].

[Article in Japanese]

Igarashi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Public Health, Yokohama City University School of Medicine.

Health economics seek to provide the information which can contribute to the 
rational decision making, towards the appropriate allocation of scarce 
healthcare resources. Through the COVID-19 pandemic, everyone has recognized 
that healthcare resource would not be infinite and general public would no 
longer permit too excessive resource allocation for healthcare area, which might 
cause the conflict against other social activities. Even under the Universal 
Health Coverage, some restriction for coverage should be implemented, to 
maintain the public health care system. The health economic evaluation, or 
cost-effectiveness evaluation could be used for coverage decision of healthcare 
intervention for public health system, as it aimed to assess both costs and 
health outcome of candidate intervention against the conventional ones. The 
ICER, additional costs divided by additional outcomes could be used 
as"benchmark"of cost-effectiveness. The QALYs, quality-adjusted life years, was 
widely used as a"common"outcome measure, which enables us to evaluate 
interventions regardless of type of the diseases. However, cost-effectiveness 
data, or cost data with QALY data should not be the"only"benchmark value for 
decision making. Various aspects, outside of costs and QALYs, such as 
productivity losses and family spillovers, would constitute the"value"of 
interventions. How to evaluate the value of healthcare interventions must be 
differed from how to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of them.

PMID: 37066448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Scand Cardiovasc J. 2023 Dec;57(1):2197184. doi:
10.1080/14017431.2023.2197184.

Survival after PCI or CABG for left main stem coronary stenosis. A single 
institution registry from the NOBLE study period.

Myrmel T(1), Lamøy Bjøru A(2), Cappelen Endresen P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery, University Hospital North 
Norway, Tromsø, Norway.
(2)Department of Medicine, Finnmarkssykehuset HF, Hammerfest, Norway.

Objective. To analyze 10 years mortality in an all-comers registry of patients 
with left main coronary artery stenoses treated with either PCI or CABG. Design. 
Patients with left main coronary stenoses treated with either PCI or CABG in the 
period of the NOBLE trial (2010-2015) were all included in an institutional 
database and registry (University Hospital North Norway). Fifty-six of totally 
429 patients were included in the randomized, multicenter and international 
NOBLE trail; 426 eligible patients from the trial and registry were analyzed for 
mortality on 20 October 2020. The longest observation time on this date was 
3611 days (9.9 years); 205 patients were treated with PCI and 221 with CABG. The 
patients treated with PCI were 74 ± 10 years vs 68 ± 10 years (CABG). Also, on 
average the PCI patients had more comorbidities (lower ejection fraction, more 
peripheral artery disease, more often acute presentation). Results. Survival at 
the last observation date was 80% for CABG patients vs 48% for PCI. A Cox 
proportional hazards analysis found PCI to be the strongest independent 
predictor for mortality (HR = 2.5, 95% CI 1.7-3.7). Also, COPD, chronic kidney 
disease, age, peripheral vascular disease, cerebrovascular incidents and acute 
presentation were factor predicting increased 10 years mortality. Conclusion. 
These data indicate that life expectancy in the overall patient population is 
shorter for patient treated for left main disease with PCI than with CABG.

DOI: 10.1080/14017431.2023.2197184
PMID: 37066675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Int J Artif Organs. 2023 Jun;46(6):378-380. doi: 10.1177/03913988231168427.
Epub  2023 Apr 17.

Intraoperative mydriasis in left ventricular assist device patients. Do eyes 
never lie?

Samara E(1), Falara A(2), Leontiadis E(3), Antoniou T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesiology and Postoperative Intensive Care, Faculty of 
Medicine, School of Health Sciences, University of Ioannina, Greece.
(2)Department of Anaesthesiology, Onassis Cardiac Surgery Centre, Greece.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Onassis Cardiac Surgery Centre, Greece.

We report two cases of transient intraoperative mydriasis in left ventricular 
assist device (LVAD) patients with no profound underlining neurological 
pathology. Both cases concern females on LVAD for more than 30 months, due to 
dilated cardiomyopathy, as a bridge to transplant. A possible pathophysiology 
mechanism is suggested. As LVAD patients' life expectancy increases, more and 
more physiological alterations due to laminar flow will be revealed and must be 
taken into consideration for the better care of this patient group.

DOI: 10.1177/03913988231168427
PMID: 37066782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. J Robot Surg. 2023 Aug;17(4):1867-1869. doi: 10.1007/s11701-023-01600-3.
Epub  2023 Apr 17.

Assessing the safety of minimally invasive partial nephrectomy in octogenarians.

Jivanji D(1), Shpeen B(2), Kaplan-Marans E(2), Neckonoff E(3), Silver M(4), 
Schulman A(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Maimonides Medical Center, 745 64th St. 4th Floor, 
Brooklyn, NY, 11220, USA. dhaval.jivanji@gmail.com.
(2)Division of Urology, Maimonides Medical Center, 745 64th St. 4th Floor, 
Brooklyn, NY, 11220, USA.
(3)New York Institute of Technology, College of Osteopathic Medicine, New York, 
NY, USA.
(4)Department of Research Administration, Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklyn, 
NY, USA.

As life expectancy continues to rise, there is a growing cohort of octogenarians 
that can have oncologic benefit from a partial nephrectomy. This study aims to 
analyze a large national dataset to compare the safety and outcomes in 
octogenarians receiving a nephrectomy. The American College of Surgeons National 
Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS-NSQIP) database was utilized. All 
subjects 80-89 years old who received a minimally invasive partial nephrectomy 
(CPT: 50543) or radical nephrectomy (CPT: 50545, 50546) from 2016 to 2020 were 
included. Baseline characteristics, comorbidities, and postoperative 
complications were compared. Chi-square analysis and student t-tests were used 
to analyze categorical and continuous variables, respectively. 1765 procedures 
were performed on octogenarians, of which 1299 (73.6%) received a radical 
nephrectomy and 466 (26.4%) received a partial nephrectomy. When comparing 
preoperative comorbidities, octogenarians undergoing partial nephrectomy had 
lower rates of dyspnea at exertion (7.3 vs. 10.6%, p = 0.04), COPD (2.8 vs. 
5.9%, p = 0.01), and chronic steroid use (1.5 vs. 3.3%, p = 0.04). No 
statistically significant differences were seen in any minor (Clavien 1/2) or 
major post-operative complications (Clavien 3/4). Readmissions were higher in 
those who received a partial nephrectomy (10.5 vs. 6.5%, p = 0.01); however, 
there were no significant differences in reoperation (2.4 vs. 1.7%, p = 0.36) or 
mortality (1.3 vs. 1.8%, p = 0.48). Partial nephrectomy is a safe and feasible 
operation in octogenarians. Preoperative counseling and appropriate patient 
selection remain imperative.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag London Ltd., 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11701-023-01600-3
PMID: 37067699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Endocrine. 2023 Jul;81(1):16-29. doi: 10.1007/s12020-023-03362-2. Epub 2023
Apr  17.

Metabolic adverse events of multitarget kinase inhibitors: a systematic review.

Acitelli E(#)(1), Maiorca C(#)(1), Grani G(2), Maranghi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational and Precision Medicine, Sapienza University of 
Rome, Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Translational and Precision Medicine, Sapienza University of 
Rome, Rome, Italy. giorgio.grani@uniroma1.it.
(#)Contributed equally

PURPOSE: Multitargeted kinase inhibitors (MKIs) are used for the treatment of 
several cancers. By targeting multiple signaling pathways, MKIs have become 
cornerstones of the oncologic treatment. Although their use leads to important 
results in terms of survival, treatment with MKIs can determine important side 
effects the clinician must be aware of. Among those, arterial hypertension, 
mucositis and skin lesions are universally reported, while data about metabolic 
alterations are scarce. In our review, we focused on glucose and lipid 
alterations in MKI-treated patients.
METHODS: We searched for articles, published between January 2012 and December 
2022, evaluating the effects on lipid and glucose metabolism of four MKIs 
(Cabozantinib, Lenvatinib, Sorafenib, and Vandetanib) in adult patients with 
cancer. We focused on drugs approved for thyroid malignancies, since a worse 
metabolic control may potentially impact life expectancy, due to their better 
overall survival rate.
RESULTS: As for glucose metabolism, the majority of the studies reported 
elevation of glucose levels (prevalence: 1-17%) with different grades of 
severity, including death. As for cholesterol, 12 studies reported worsening or 
new-onset hypercholesterolemia (prevalence: 4-40%). Finally, 19 studies reported 
different grades of hypertriglyceridemia (prevalence: 1-86%), sometimes leading 
to life-threatening events.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite some inherent limitations, our analysis may cast light upon 
some of the MKIs metabolic disorders that can impact on patients' health, 
especially when long-term survival is expected. Future clinical trials should 
consider routine assessment of glucose and lipid levels, because underdetection 
and underreporting of alterations can lead to the overlooking of important 
adverse events.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12020-023-03362-2
PMCID: PMC10239378
PMID: 37067769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.841. J Mol Biol. 2023 Jul 1;435(13):168095. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2023.168095. Epub
2023  Apr 15.

Designed Loop Extension Followed by Combinatorial Screening Confers High 
Specificity to a Broad Matrix MetalloproteinaseInhibitor.

Bonadio A(1), Wenig BL(2), Hockla A(3), Radisky ES(4), Shifman JM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, The Alexander Silberman Institute of Life 
Sciences, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel.
(2)Department of Cancer Biology, Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
Jacksonville, Florida, USA; Paracelsus Medical University, Salzburg, Austria.
(3)Department of Cancer Biology, Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
Jacksonville, Florida, USA.
(4)Department of Cancer Biology, Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
Jacksonville, Florida, USA. Electronic address: Radisky.Evette@mayo.edu.
(5)Department of Biological Chemistry, The Alexander Silberman Institute of Life 
Sciences, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel. Electronic address: 
jshifman@mail.huji.ac.il.

Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are key drivers of various diseases, including 
cancer. Development of probes and drugs capable of selectively inhibiting the 
individual members of the large MMP family remains a persistent challenge. The 
inhibitory N-terminal domain of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-2 
(N-TIMP2), a natural broad MMP inhibitor, can provide a scaffold for protein 
engineering to create more selective MMP inhibitors. Here, we pursued a unique 
approach harnessing both computational design and combinatorial screening to 
confer high binding specificity toward a target MMP in preference to an 
anti-target MMP. We designed a loop extension of N-TIMP2 to allow new 
interactions with the non-conserved MMP surface and generated an efficient 
focused library for yeast surface display, which was then screened for high 
binding to the target MMP-14 and low binding to anti-target MMP-3. Deep 
sequencing analysis identified the most promising variants, which were 
expressed, purified, and tested for selectivity of inhibition. Our best N-TIMP2 
variant exhibited 29 pM binding affinity to MMP-14 and 2.4 µM affinity to MMP-3, 
revealing 7500-fold greater specificity than WT N-TIMP2. High-confidence 
structural models were obtained by including NGS data in the AlphaFold multiple 
sequence alignment. The modeling together with experimental mutagenesis 
validated our design predictions, demonstrating that the loop extension packs 
tightly against non-conserved residues on MMP-14 and clashes with MMP-3. This 
study demonstrates how introduction of loop extensions in a manner guided by 
target protein conservation data and loop design can offer an attractive 
strategy to achieve specificity in design of protein ligands.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2023.168095
PMCID: PMC10312305
PMID: 37068580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


842. BMJ Open. 2023 Apr 17;13(4):e071127. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-071127.

Physical activity interventions implemented for older people in sub-Saharan 
Africa: protocol for a scoping review.

Naidoo S(1), Otoo S(2), Naidoo N(3).

Author information:
(1)Health and Rehabilitation, University of Cape Town, Rondebosch, South Africa 
ndxsha092@myuct.ac.za.
(2)Health and Rehabilitation, University of Cape Town, Rondebosch, South Africa.
(3)Division of Physiotherapy Department of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences, 
University of Cape Town, Rondebosch, South Africa.

INTRODUCTION: The global population of older people (OP) is on an upward 
trajectory, with predictions that the number of OP would surpass the population 
of younger people by 2050. In sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), death from infectious 
diseases in the younger population and lower fertility rates are influencing a 
double burden contributing to an exponential growth in the ageing population. 
Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are the leading cause of mortality and 
disability in the population of OP in SSA. Physical activity (PA) has been 
proven to have positive benefits in reducing the prevalence of NCDs in OP. The 
objective of this scoping review is to summarise the evidence on the feasibility 
and effectiveness of PA interventions that have been implemented among OP to 
address PA levels, blood pressure, blood glucose levels, cognitive function, 
quality of life and body mass index in SSA.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The Joanna Briggs Insitute (JBI) methodology will be 
followed for this scoping review. An electronic search of PubMed, EBSCOhost 
(Academic Search Premier AfricaWide Information, CINAHL, Health Sources Premier 
Academic/Nursing), Scopus and ProQuest (grey literature) will be done from 2010 
onwards to identify reports of randomised controlled studies published in 
English using relevant keywords. 2010 was selected as the cut-off point for 
inclusion in order to focus only on relatively recent evidence, as it is more 
likely to remain relevant and applicable to present-day settings. The searches 
will be performed by the primary reviewer in conjunction with a senior 
librarian. Full independent review of the uploaded articles will be done by two 
reviewers, by title and abstract, and thereafter by full text, based on 
specified inclusion and exclusion criteria. The reference list of included 
articles will be scanned for additional relevant articles. Disagreements will be 
arbitrated by a third reviewer. Results will be presented in a descriptive form 
as well as in tabular, graphical and diagrammatic formats, following the 
Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses Extension for 
Scoping Reviews.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The review will be extracting and reporting on data 
from published literature so there is no requirement for ethics approval. The 
findings of the review will be submitted for publication in a peer-reviewed 
journal.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-071127
PMCID: PMC10111889
PMID: 37068909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


843. Injury. 2023 Apr 13:S0020-1383(23)00357-1. doi:
10.1016/j.injury.2023.04.013.  Online ahead of print.

An analysis of cost and complications for patients sustaining a second, 
contralateral hip fracture within 1 year.

Makar GS(1), Rocha DB(2), Nester J(3), Torino D(4), Udoeyo IF(5), Maniar HH(6), 
Horwitz DS(7).

Author information:
(1)Geisinger Medical Center, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, 100 N. Academy 
Ave., Danville, PA 17822. Electronic address: gmakar1@geisinger.edu.
(2)Geisinger Medical Center, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, 100 N. Academy 
Ave., Danville, PA 17822. Electronic address: dani.barreto@me.com.
(3)Geisinger Medical Center, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, 100 N. Academy 
Ave., Danville, PA 17822. Electronic address: jrnester@geisinger.edu.
(4)Geisinger Medical Center, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, 100 N. Academy 
Ave., Danville, PA 17822. Electronic address: djtorino@geisinger.edu.
(5)Geisinger Medical Center, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, 100 N. Academy 
Ave., Danville, PA 17822. Electronic address: ifudoeyo@geisinger.edu.
(6)Geisinger Medical Center, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, 100 N. Academy 
Ave., Danville, PA 17822. Electronic address: hmaniar@geisinger.edu.
(7)Geisinger Medical Center, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, 100 N. Academy 
Ave., Danville, PA 17822. Electronic address: dshorwitz@geisinger.edu.

INTRODUCTION: Hip fractures are an increasingly common occurrence among the 
aging population. With increased life expectancy and advancements in medicine, 
patients sustaining a hip fracture are at an increasing risk of sustaining a 
contralateral hip fracture. Efforts are being made to better understand the 
environment of these hip fractures so that secondary prevention clinics and 
guidelines can be made to help prevent recurrent osteoporotic hip fractures. The 
estimated incidence of a contralateral hip fracture varies from 2 to 10% and is 
reportedly associated with a higher incidence of complications. Previous studies 
evaluating contralateral hip fractures compared a single cohort of patients 
sustaining a second hip fracture with patients who sustained only one hip 
fracture. We aimed to investigate the overall complications and associated costs 
as it relates to a patients first hip fracture and contrast this to the same 
patient's contralateral, second hip fractures.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective review of all patients in our health 
systems electronic database who were found to have surgically treated hip 
fractures between January 2004 and July 2019. Patients with surgically treated 
hip fractures (CPT Codes: 27235, 27236, 27245, 27244), who sustained a second 
contralateral hip fracture were included. Medical complications within 30 days 
of either procedure (such as pneumonia, UTI, altered mental status and others), 
length of stay, orthopedic complications (such as wound complications, 
infection, hardware failure, nonunion), type of implants, costs, comorbidities, 
and ASA Class as well as Mortality were reviewed.
RESULTS: A total of 4,870 hip fractures were identified during the study period 
where 137 (2.8%) patients sustained a second hip fracture, and 47 (0.9%) of 
which were sustained within the first year after their index hip fracture. There 
was no statistical difference in length of stay (p = 0.68), medical (p>0.99) or 
orthopedic complications (p>0.99) between patients first and second hip 
fractures. There was an increased incidence of cognitive impairment with the 
second hip fracture (P = 0.0002). For patients that underwent operative 
treatment of a second hip fracture, the total cost of care was higher for the 
second surgery (mean difference 757. 38 USD) however the difference wasn't 
statistically significant (p = 0.31). The overall 1-year mortality rate was 14.9 
percent.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates there is no statistical difference between 
the first and second surgery regarding length of stay, medical or orthopedic 
complications and cost.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.injury.2023.04.013
PMID: 37068971

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors of 
this study state that there is no conflict of interest directly related to this 
study.


844. Leukemia. 2023 May;37(5):1060-1067. doi: 10.1038/s41375-023-01888-y. Epub
2023  Apr 14.

Health-related quality of life of patients with resistant/intolerant chronic 
phase chronic myeloid leukemia treated with asciminib or bosutinib in the phase 
3 ASCEMBL trial.

Réa D(1), Boquimpani C(2)(3), Mauro MJ(4), Minami Y(5), Allepuz A(6), Maheshwari 
VK(7), D'Alessio D(8), Wu Y(8), Lawrance R(9), Narbutas S(10), Sharf G(11), 
Hochhaus A(12).

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Saint-Louis, CIC 1427, Paris, France. delphine.rea@aphp.fr.
(2)HEMORIO, State Institute of Hematology Arthur de Siquiera Cavalcanti, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Oncoclínica Centro de Tratamento Oncológico, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(4)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.
(5)National Cancer Center Hospital East, Kashiwa, Japan.
(6)Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland.
(7)Novartis Healthcare Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad, India.
(8)Novartis Services Inc, East Hanover, NJ, USA.
(9)Adelphi Values, Bollington, Cheshire, UK.
(10)Youth Cancer Europe and CML Advocates Network, Vilnius, Lithuania.
(11)Leukemia Patient Advocates Foundation, Netanya, Israel.
(12)Universitätsklinikum Jena, Jena, Germany.

In ASCEMBL, an open-label, randomized Phase 3 study, asciminib demonstrated 
superior efficacy and better safety profile compared with bosutinib in patients 
with chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase (CML-CP) previously treated with 
≥2 tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) reported 
by patients is key to understanding the benefit and impact of treatment on 
patients' lives, and is becoming increasingly important as the life expectancy 
of CML-CP patients increases and patients require long-term treatment. In 
ASCEMBL, patients completed questionnaires to assess CML symptoms and 
interference with daily life (M.D. Anderson Symptom Inventory - CML 
[MDASI-CML]), general HRQOL (five-level EQ-5D [EQ-5D-5L], Patient Global 
Impression of Change - CML [PGIC-CML]), and impact of CML on working life and 
activity (Work Productivity and Activity Impairment questionnaire - CML 
[WPAI-CML]). Patients' CML symptoms and HRQOL remained stable during 48 weeks of 
treatment with asciminib, with a general trend for decreased CML symptom 
severity, particularly for fatigue, and improvement in HRQOL. A clinically 
meaningful increase in diarrhea severity was observed in patients treated with 
bosutinib compared to asciminib. These data provide better understanding of the 
patient perspective and treatment impact on HRQOL in a later-line setting, where 
little information has been published to date.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41375-023-01888-y
PMCID: PMC10169655
PMID: 37069326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This study was funded by Novartis Services Inc. 
DR: honoraria from Novartis (including medical writing support for this current 
publication), Incyte, and Pfizer. CB: Speakers Bureau for Novartis, Janssen, and 
Pint Pharma; Board of Directors or advisory committees for Novartis and Janssen. 
MJM: personal fees from Bristol Myers Squibb, Takeda, and Pfizer. YM: honoraria 
from Novartis, BMS, Pfizer, and Astellas. AA, DD’A, and YW: employees of 
Novartis and holders of Novartis stock/shares. VKM: employee of Novartis at the 
time of conduct of this study. RL: employee of Adelphi Values, a consulting firm 
that received funding from Novartis to produce this work. SN and GS: Novartis 
advisory board and steering committee members. AH: research funding from 
Novartis, Bristol Myers Squibb, Pfizer, and Incyte.


845. BMC Cancer. 2023 Apr 17;23(1):349. doi: 10.1186/s12885-023-10777-7.

The epidemiology of multiple primary cancers in Belgium (2004-2017): Incidence, 
proportion, risk, stage and impact on relative survival estimates.

Macq G(1), Silversmit G(1), Verdoodt F(1), Van Eycken L(2).

Author information:
(1)Belgian Cancer Registry, Rue Royale 215, box 7 1210, Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Belgian Cancer Registry, Rue Royale 215, box 7 1210, Brussels, Belgium. 
elizabeth.vaneycken@kankerregister.org.

BACKGROUND: As both life expectancy and cancer survival improve, the incidence 
of multiple primary cancer has augmented and is expected to further increase. 
This study describes for the first time the epidemiology of multiple invasive 
tumours in Belgium.
METHODS: This nationwide study, based on all cancers diagnosed between 2004 and 
2017 in Belgium, describes the proportion of multiple primary cancer, its 
evolution over time, the impact of inclusion or exclusion of multiple primary 
cancer on relative survival estimates, the risk of developing a second primary 
cancer, and the difference in stage between first and second primary cancer for 
the same patient.
RESULTS: The proportion of multiple primary cancer increases with age, varies 
across cancer sites (from 4% for testis cancer to 22.8% for oesophageal cancer), 
is higher in men than in women, and has linearly increased over time. The 
inclusion of multiple primary cancer resulted in smaller 5-year relative 
survival and this impact is more pronounced in cancer sites with high relative 
survival. Patients with a first primary cancer have an increased risk to develop 
a new primary cancer compared to the population without a previous cancer 
history (1.27 and 1.59 times higher in men and women, respectively) and this 
risk depends on cancer site. Second primary cancers are associated with more 
advanced stages and more unknown stages than the corresponding first cancer 
diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: This study describes multiple primary cancer according to several 
measures (proportion, standardised incidence ratio for an second primary cancer, 
impact of multiple primary cancer on relative survival and differences according 
to stage) for the first time in Belgium. The results are based on data of a 
population-based cancer registry with a relatively recent onset (2004).

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-023-10777-7
PMCID: PMC10108509
PMID: 37069565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


846. Lancet Reg Health Eur. 2023 Jan 19;27:100580. doi:
10.1016/j.lanepe.2022.100580.  eCollection 2023 Apr.

Changes in life expectancy and house prices in London from 2002 to 2019: 
hyper-resolution spatiotemporal analysis of death registration and real estate 
data.

Bennett JE(1)(2), Rashid T(1)(2), Zolfaghari A(1)(2), Doyle Y(3), Suel E(1)(2), 
Pearson-Stuttard J(1)(2), Davies B(1)(2)(4), Fecht D(1)(2)(4), Muller ES(1)(2), 
Nathvani RS(1)(2), Sportiche N(5), Daby HI(1)(2)(4), Johnson E(1)(2)(4), Li 
G(6), Flaxman S(7), Toledano MB(1)(2)(8), Asaria M(9)(10), Ezzati 
M(1)(2)(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, London, UK.
(2)MRC Centre for Environment and Health, School of Public Health, Imperial 
College London, London, UK.
(3)Visiting Professor of European Public Health, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(4)UK Small Area Health Statistics Unit, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(5)Health Policy PhD program, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(6)Department of Mathematics, Physics and Electrical Engineering, Northumbria 
University, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, UK.
(7)Department of Computer Science, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(8)Mohn Centre for Children's Health and Wellbeing, School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, London, UK.
(9)Department of Health Policy, London School of Economics and Political 
