

954. J Fungi (Basel). 2023 Apr 4;9(4):442. doi: 10.3390/jof9040442.

Insight into the Antifungal Effects of Propolis and Carnosic Acid-Extension to 
the Pathogenic Yeast Candida glabrata: New Propolis Fractionation and Potential 
Synergistic Applications.

Argüelles A(1), Sánchez-Fresneda R(1)(2), Guirao-Abad JP(1)(2), Lozano JA(3), 
Solano F(3), Argüelles JC(2).

Author information:
(1)Vitalgaia España S.L., 30005 Murcia, Spain.
(2)Área de Microbiología, Facultad de Biología, Universidad de Murcia, 30071 
Murcia, Spain.
(3)Departamento de Bioquímica y Biología Molecular B e Inmunología, Facultad de 
Medicina, Universidad de Murcia, 30120 Murcia, Spain.

Fungi have traditionally been considered opportunistic pathogens in primary 
infections caused by virulent bacteria, protozoan, or viruses. Consequently, 
antimycotic chemotherapy is clearly less developed in comparison to its 
bacterial counterpart. Currently, the three main families of antifungals 
(polyenes, echinocandins, and azoles) are not sufficient to control the enormous 
increase in life-threatening fungal infections recorded in recent decades. 
Natural substances harvested from plants have traditionally been utilized as a 
successful alternative. After a wide screening of natural agents, we have 
recently obtained promising results with distinct formulations of carnosic acid 
and propolis on the prevalent fungal pathogens Candida albicans and Cryptococcus 
neoformans. Here, we extended their use to the treatment against the emerging 
pathogenic yeast Candida glabrata, which displayed lower susceptibility in 
comparison to the fungi mentioned above. Taking into account the moderate 
antifungal activity of both natural agents, the antifungal value of these 
combinations has been improved through the obtention of the hydroethanolic 
fractions of propolis. In addition, we have demonstrated the potential clinical 
application of new therapeutical designs based on sequential pre-treatments with 
carnosic/propolis mixtures, followed by exposure to amphotericin B. This 
approach increased the toxic effect induced by this polyene.

DOI: 10.3390/jof9040442
PMCID: PMC10143237
PMID: 37108897

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


955. J Clin Med. 2023 Apr 17;12(8):2913. doi: 10.3390/jcm12082913.

Changes in the Level of Premature Mortality in the Polish Population Due to 
Selected Groups of Cardiovascular Diseases before and during the Pandemic of 
COVID-19.

Moryson W(1), Kalinowski P(2), Kotecki P(1), Stawińska-Witoszyńska B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Hygiene, Chair of Social Medicine, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, 60-806 Poznan, Poland.
(2)Department of Hygiene and Epidemiology, Medical University of Lublin, 20-093 
Lublin, Poland.

BACKGROUND: In the years 2020 and 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic disrupted Poland's 
health care system and caused a high number of excess deaths. After nearly 30 
years of continuous dynamic increase in the life expectancy of the Polish 
population and a decrease in premature mortality that led to a reduction in the 
health gap between Poland and Western European countries, regrettably, a decline 
in life expectancy was recorded. For males, the decline amounted to 2.3 years 
and, for females, to 2.1 years.
AIM: The aim of this study was to assess changes in the level of premature 
mortality due to selected cardiovascular diseases in Poland before and during 
the COVID-19 pandemic.
METHOD: Time trends of deaths of patients under the age of 65 due to ischemic 
heart disease, cerebrovascular disease and aortic aneurysm were analyzed by 
gender and age groups. The joinpoint model was used in determining time trends.
RESULTS: Premature mortality due to all of the cardiovascular diseases analyzed 
had been declining steadily by about 5% per year since 2008. However, at the end 
of the second decade of the 21st century, a significant change in the dynamics 
of the trend was observed, particularly with regard to deaths from ischemic 
heart disease, which since 2018 caused premature mortality increases of 10% per 
year in the female population. In the male population, an increase of nearly 20% 
per year has been observed since 2019. The changes also affected premature 
mortality due to cerebrovascular disease.
CONCLUSIONS: After nearly three decades of significant decline in premature 
mortality from cardiovascular diseases in Poland, there was a reversal in the 
trend, in particular as regards ischemic heart disease. The unfavorable changes 
intensified in the subsequent two years. The simultaneous increase in the number 
of cardiovascular incidents ending in death and the decline in access to prompt 
diagnosis and effective treatment may explain the unfavorable changes in the 
deaths caused by cardiovascular disease and the increase in premature mortality 
due to cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm12082913
PMCID: PMC10144974
PMID: 37109249

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


956. J Clin Med. 2023 Apr 18;12(8):2938. doi: 10.3390/jcm12082938.

Paradigm Shifts in Cardiac Pacing: Where Have We Been and What Lies Ahead?

Ballantyne BA(1), Chew DS(1), Vandenberk B(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Sciences, Cumming School of Medicine, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Sciences, KU Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium.
(3)Department of Cardiology, University Hospitals Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium.

The history of cardiac pacing dates back to the 1930s with externalized pacing 
and has evolved to incorporate transvenous, multi-lead, or even leadless 
devices. Annual implantation rates of cardiac implantable electronic devices 
have increased since the introduction of the implantable system, likely related 
to expanding indications, and increasing global life expectancy and aging 
demographics. Here, we summarize the relevant literature on cardiac pacing to 
demonstrate the enormous impact it has had within the field of cardiology. 
Further, we look forward to the future of cardiac pacing, including conduction 
system pacing and leadless pacing strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm12082938
PMCID: PMC10146747
PMID: 37109274

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


957. Life (Basel). 2023 Apr 7;13(4):964. doi: 10.3390/life13040964.

Recent Advancements on the Use of Exosomes as Drug Carriers for the Treatment of 
Glioblastoma.

Galardi A(1), De Bethlen A(1), Di Paolo V(1), Lampis S(1), Mastronuzzi A(1), Di 
Giannatale A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hemato-Oncology and Cell and Gene Therapy, IRCCS, 
Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, 00165 Rome, Italy.

Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and aggressive cancer of the brain. 
Presently, GBM patients have a poor prognosis, and therapy primarily aims to 
extend the life expectancy of affected patients. The current treatment of GBM in 
adult cases and high-grade gliomas in the pediatric population involves a 
multimodal approach that includes surgical resection followed by simultaneous 
chemo/radiotherapy. Exosomes are nanoparticles that transport proteins and 
nucleic acids and play a crucial role in mediating intercellular communication. 
Recent evidence suggests that these microvesicles may be used as biological 
carriers and offer significant advantages in targeted therapy. Due to their 
inherent cell-targeting properties, circulation stability, and biocompatibility, 
exosomes are emerging as promising new carriers for drugs and biotherapeutics. 
Furthermore, these nanovesicles are a repository of potential diagnostic and 
prognostic markers. In this review, we focus on the therapeutic potentials of 
exosomes in nano-delivery and describe the latest evidence of their use as a 
therapeutic tool in GBM.

DOI: 10.3390/life13040964
PMCID: PMC10142357
PMID: 37109493

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


958. Life (Basel). 2023 Apr 11;13(4):986. doi: 10.3390/life13040986.

An Exploratory Investigation Evaluating the Impact of Fatigue-Induced Stride 
Length Compensations on Ankle Biomechanics among Skilled Baseball Pitchers.

Crotin RL(1)(2)(3), Ramsey DK(4).

Author information:
(1)Human Performance Laboratories, Department of Kinesiology, Louisiana Tech 
University, Ruston, LA 71270, USA.
(2)Sports Performance Research Institute New Zealand, Auckland University of 
Technology, Auckland 1010, New Zealand.
(3)Department of Exercise Science, School of Public Health and Health 
Professions, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY 14260, USA.
(4)Center for Doctoral Studies and Research, D'Youville University, Buffalo, NY 
14260, USA.

Altered propulsive and bracing ground reaction forces from lower-body fatigue 
significantly impact stride length to increase weakness in dynamic elbow 
stabilizers and risk of medial elbow injury in baseball pitchers. This work 
investigated altered stride length on three-dimensional ankle joint dynamics to 
illustrate fatigue-induced changes in ankle motion that can also be impacted by 
coaching errors. Nineteen pitchers (15 collegiate and 4 high school) were 
randomized in a crossover design study that encouraged fatigue by throwing two 
simulated 80-pitch games at ±25% of their desired stride length. An integrated 
motion-capture system with two force plates and radar gun tracked each throw. 
Retrospective analysis using pairwise comparisons, including effect size 
calculations, were undertaken to identify differences in ankle dynamics between 
stride length conditions for both the drive and stride leg. Longer strides were 
found to be more effective in drive ankle propulsion and stride-bracing 
mechanics. Conversely, shorter strides delayed bracing dynamics by demonstrating 
continued drive ankle plantar flexion moments after stride-foot contact to 
extend pitchers' time in propulsion (p < 0.001, d > 0.8). Additionally, 
heightened braking effects were seen during the acceleration phase of throwing 
with greater stride knee extension power when pitching with shorter strides (p < 
0.001, d > 0.8). The knowledge gained from this work offers new insight into 
compensatory stride length adaptation that impacts systemic and throwing 
arm-specific fatigue to maintain ball velocity, as bilateral ankle joint 
dynamics can be significantly affected in response to cumulative workload.

DOI: 10.3390/life13040986
PMCID: PMC10142827
PMID: 37109515

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


959. Life (Basel). 2023 Apr 11;13(4):987. doi: 10.3390/life13040987.

Snow Metrics as Proxy to Assess Sarcoptic Mange in Wild Boar: Preliminary 
Results in Aosta Valley (Italy).

Viani A(1), Orusa T(2), Borgogno-Mondino E(2), Orusa R(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Piedmont, Liguria, Aosta Valley (IZS PLV) S.C Valle 
d'Aosta-CeRMAS (National Reference Center for Wildlife Diseases), Località 
Amerique 7/G, 11020 Quart, Italy.
(2)GEO4Agri DISAFA Laboratory, Department of Agricultural, Forest and Food 
Sciences (DISAFA), University of Turin, Largo Paolo Braccini 2, 10095 
Grugliasco, Italy.

The widespread diffusion of the wild boar on the Italian territory and its 
consistent use for hunting have created the possibility to conduct multiple 
studies on the pathologies afflicting this ungulate. Nevertheless, in the last 
two decades, only some pathologies such as classical and African Swine Fever, 
Tuberculosis, Brucellosis from Brucella suis have benefited from substantial 
public funding and the consequent great interest from the scientific world, 
while less attention was addressed to parasitic diseases including sarcoptic 
mange. Therefore, to fill this gap, the purpose of this study was to contribute 
to the knowledge of sarcoptic mange in the wild boar population in Aosta Valley 
in the Northwest of Italy, including sympatric species as foxes. Due to past 
field surveys, it has been possible to find a possible role of snow metrics in 
the spread of this pathogen. Even if there are only empirical evidence and the 
mechanism remain unknown remote sensing analysis considering snow metrics were 
performed to provide to veterinarians, foresters, biologists, and ecologists new 
tools to better understand wield board dynamics and join to ordinary tool an 
instrument to enhance management and planning strategies. The snow metrics (SM) 
were derived from USGS NASA Landsat 8 L2A retrieved from Theia CNES platform and 
processed in Orfeo Toolbox LIS extension package. The relationship between SM 
and the disease spread was tested per each Aosta Valley municipality obtaining 
LISA maps for each hunting season. The results have showed that this parasite is 
present in an endemic form even if with rather low prevalence values, equal to 
1.2% in the season hunting season 2013/2014, and equal to 7.5% in the hunting 
season 2014/2015. Moreover, within simultaneous given values of SM, sarcoptic 
mange seem to find good conditions for spreading.

DOI: 10.3390/life13040987
PMCID: PMC10143256
PMID: 37109516

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


960. Microorganisms. 2023 Apr 19;11(4):1067. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms11041067.

Endophytic Colonization by Beauveria bassiana and Metarhizium anisopliae in 
Maize Plants Affects the Fitness of Spodoptera frugiperda (Lepidoptera: 
Noctuidae).

Altaf N(1), Ullah MI(1), Afzal M(1)(2), Arshad M(1), Ali S(3), Rizwan M(4), 
Al-Shuraym LA(5), Alhelaify SS(6), Sayed S(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of Sargodha, Sargodha 40100, Pakistan.
(2)Baba Guru Nanak University, Nankana Sahib 39100, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Entomology, The Islamia University of Bahawalpur, Bahawalpur 
63100, Pakistan.
(4)Beekeeping and Hill Fruit Pests Research Station, Rawalpindi 46300, Pakistan.
(5)Department of Biology, College of Science, Princess Nourah Bint Abdulrahman 
University, P.O. Box 84428, Riyadh 11671, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Science, Taif University, P.O. Box 
11099, Taif 21944, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Department of Economic Entomology and Pesticides, Faculty of Agriculture, 
Cairo University, Giza 12613, Egypt.
(8)Department of Science and Technology, University College-Ranyah, Taif 
University, P.O. Box 11099, Taif 21944, Saudi Arabia.

The fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda (Noctuidae; Lepidoptera), is a serious 
threat to food security as it has the potential to feed on over 353 plant 
species. To control this insect pest, endophytic colonization of 
entomopathogenic fungi (EPF) in plants is being considered as a safer and more 
effective alternative. This study evaluated the efficacy of two EPFs, Beauveria 
bassiana and Metarhizium anisopliae, for endophytic colonization using foliar 
spray and seed treatment methods on maize plants, and their impact on the 
survival, development, and fecundity of S. frugiperda. Both EPF effectively 
colonized the maize plants with foliar spray and seed treatment methods, 
resulting in 72-80% and 50-60% colonization rates, respectively, 14 days after 
inoculation. The EPF negatively impacted the development and fecundity of S. 
frugiperda. Larvae feeding on EPF-inoculated leaves had slower development 
(21.21 d for M. anisopliae and 20.64 d for B. bassiana) than the control 
treatment (20.27 d). The fecundity rate was also significantly reduced to 
260.0-290.1 eggs/female with both EPF applications compared with the control 
treatment (435.6 eggs/female). Age-stage-specific parameters showed lower 
fecundity, life expectancy, and survival of S. frugiperda when they fed on both 
EPF-inoculated leaves compared with untreated leaves. Furthermore, both EPFs had 
a significant effect on population parameters such as intrinsic (r = 0.127 d-1 
for B. bassiana, and r = 0.125 d-1 for M. anisopliae) and finite rate (λ = 1.135 
d-1 for B. bassiana, and λ = 1.1333 d-1 for M. anisopliae) of S. frugiperda 
compared with the control (r = 0.133 d-1 and λ = 1.146 d-1). These findings 
suggest that EPF can be effectively used for the endophytic colonization of 
maize plants to control S. frugiperda. Therefore, these EPFs should be 
integrated into pest management programs for this pest.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms11041067
PMCID: PMC10141184
PMID: 37110490

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.961. Molecules. 2023 Apr 7;28(8):3305. doi: 10.3390/molecules28083305.

Effect of Microencapsulated Basil Extract on Cream Cheese Quality and Stability.

Popescu L(1), Cojocari D(2), Lung I(3), Kacso I(3), Ciorîţă A(3)(4), 
Ghendov-Mosanu A(1), Balan G(2), Pintea A(5), Sturza R(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Food Technology, Technical University of Moldova, 9/9 Studentilor 
Street, MD-2045 Chisinau, Moldova.
(2)Department of Preventive Medicine, "Nicolae Testemitanu" State University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, 165 Stefan cel Mare Boulevard., MD-2004 Chisinau, 
Moldova.
(3)Department of Physics of Nanostructured Systems, National Institute for 
Research and Development of Isotopic and Molecular Technologies, 400293 
Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(4)Faculty of Biology and Geology, Babes-Bolyai University, 5-7 Clinicilor 
Street, 400006 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(5)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Agricultural Sciences and 
Veterinary Medicine, 3-5 Calea Manastus Street, 400374 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.

The antimicrobial and antioxidant effects of plant extracts are well known, but 
their use is limited because they affect the physicochemical and sensory 
characteristics of products. Encapsulation presents an option to limit or 
prevent these changes. The paper presents the composition of individual 
polyphenols (HPLC-DAD-ESI-MS) from basil (Ocimum basilicum L.) extracts (BE), 
and their antioxidant activity and inhibitory effects against strains of 
Staphylococcus aureus, Geobacillus stearothermophilus, Bacillus cereus, Candida 
albicans, Enterococcus faecalis, Escherichia coli, and Salmonella Abony. The BE 
was encapsulated in sodium alginate (Alg) using the drop technique. The 
encapsulation efficiency of microencapsulated basil extract (MBE) was 78.59 ± 
0.01%. SEM and FTIR analyses demonstrated the morphological aspect of the 
microcapsules and the existence of weak physical interactions between the 
components. Sensory, physicochemical and textural properties of MBE-fortified 
cream cheese were evaluated over a 28-day storage time at 4 °C. In the optimal 
concentration range of 0.6-0.9% (w/w) MBE, we determined the inhibition of the 
post-fermentation process and the improvement in the degree of water retention. 
This led to the improvement of the textural parameters of the cream cheese, 
contributing to the extension of the shelf life of the product by 7 days.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules28083305
PMCID: PMC10143816
PMID: 37110539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


962. Molecules. 2023 Apr 15;28(8):3488. doi: 10.3390/molecules28083488.

Volatile Markers for Cancer in Exhaled Breath-Could They Be the Signature of the 
Gut Microbiota?

Bhandari MP(1), Polaka I(1), Vangravs R(1), Mezmale L(1)(2)(3), Veliks V(1), 
Kirshners A(1), Mochalski P(4)(5), Dias-Neto E(6), Leja M(1)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical and Preventive Medicine, University of Latvia, LV-1586 
Riga, Latvia.
(2)Riga East University Hospital, LV-1038 Riga, Latvia.
(3)Faculty of Residency, Riga Stradins University, LV-1007 Riga, Latvia.
(4)Institute of Chemistry, Jan Kochanowski University of Kielce, PL-25406 
Kielce, Poland.
(5)Institute for Breath Research, University of Innsbruck, A-6850 Dornbirn, 
Austria.
(6)Laboratory of Medical Genomics, A.C.Camargo Cancer Center, Sao Paulo 
01508-010, Brazil.
(7)Digestive Diseases Center GASTRO, LV-1079 Riga, Latvia.
(8)Faculty of Medicine, University of Latvia, LV-1586 Riga, Latvia.

It has been shown that the gut microbiota plays a central role in human health 
and disease. A wide range of volatile metabolites present in exhaled breath have 
been linked with gut microbiota and proposed as a non-invasive marker for 
monitoring pathological conditions. The aim of this study was to examine the 
possible correlation between volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in exhaled breath 
and the fecal microbiome by multivariate statistical analysis in gastric cancer 
patients (n = 16) and healthy controls (n = 33). Shotgun metagenomic sequencing 
was used to characterize the fecal microbiota. Breath-VOC profiles in the same 
participants were identified by an untargeted gas chromatography-mass 
spectrometry (GC-MS) technique. A multivariate statistical approach involving a 
canonical correlation analysis (CCA) and sparse principal component analysis 
identified the significant relationship between the breath VOCs and fecal 
microbiota. This relation was found to differ between gastric cancer patients 
and healthy controls. In 16 cancer cases, 14 distinct metabolites identified 
from the breath belonging to hydrocarbons, alcohols, aromatics, ketones, ethers, 
and organosulfur compounds were highly correlated with 33 fecal bacterial taxa 
(correlation of 0.891, p-value 0.045), whereas in 33 healthy controls, 7 
volatile metabolites belonging to alcohols, aldehydes, esters, phenols, and 
benzamide derivatives correlated with 17 bacterial taxa (correlation of 0.871, 
p-value 0.0007). This study suggested that the correlation between fecal 
microbiota and breath VOCs was effective in identifying exhaled volatile 
metabolites and the functional effects of microbiome, thus helping to understand 
cancer-related changes and improving the survival and life expectancy in gastric 
cancer patients.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules28083488
PMCID: PMC10141340
PMID: 37110724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


963. Nutrients. 2023 Apr 15;15(8):1913. doi: 10.3390/nu15081913.

Antioxidant Compounds from Edible Mushrooms as Potential Candidates for Treating 
Age-Related Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Liuzzi GM(1), Petraglia T(2), Latronico T(1), Crescenzi A(3), Rossano R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences, Biotechnologies and Environment, University of 
Bari "Aldo Moro", 70126 Bari, Italy.
(2)Department of Sciences, University of Basilicata, 85100 Potenza, Italy.
(3)School of Agricultural, Forestry, Food and Environmental Sciences, University 
of Basilicata, 85100 Potenza, Italy.

The last century has seen an increase in our life expectancy. As a result, 
various age-related diseases, such as neurodegenerative diseases (NDs), have 
emerged, representing new challenges to society. Oxidative stress (OS), a 
condition of redox imbalance resulting from excessive production of reactive 
oxygen species, represents a common feature that characterizes the brains of 
elderly people, thus contributing to NDs. Consequently, antioxidant 
supplementation or dietary intake of antioxidant-containing foods could 
represent an effective preventive and therapeutic intervention to maintain the 
integrity and survival of neurons and to counteract the neurodegenerative 
pathologies associated with aging. Food contains numerous bioactive molecules 
with beneficial actions for human health. To this purpose, a wide range of 
edible mushrooms have been reported to produce different antioxidant compounds 
such as phenolics, flavonoids, polysaccharides, vitamins, carotenoids, 
ergothioneine, and others, which might be used for dietary supplementation to 
enhance antioxidant defenses and, consequently, the prevention of age-related 
neurological diseases. In this review, we summarized the role of oxidative 
stress in age-related NDs, focusing on the current knowledge of the antioxidant 
compounds present in edible mushrooms, and highlighting their potential to 
preserve healthy aging by counteracting age-associated NDs.

DOI: 10.3390/nu15081913
PMCID: PMC10145943
PMID: 37111131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


964. Pharmaceutics. 2023 Apr 13;15(4):1238. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics15041238.

Pulmonary Application of Novel Antigen-Loaded Chitosan Nano-Particles 
Co-Administered with the Mucosal Adjuvant C-Di-AMP Resulted in Enhanced Immune 
Stimulation and Dose Sparing Capacity.

Ebensen T(1), Arntz A(2), Schulze K(1), Hanefeld A(3), Guzmán CA(1), Scherließ 
R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vaccinology and Applied Microbiology, Helmholtz Centre for 
Infection Research (HZI), Inhoffenstr. 7, 38124 Braunschweig, Germany.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics and Biopharmaceutics, Kiel University, Grasweg 
9a, 24118 Kiel, Germany.
(3)Merck KGaA, Frankfurter Straße 250, 64293 Darmstadt, Germany.

The most successful medical intervention for preventing infectious diseases is 
still vaccination. This effective strategy has resulted in decreased mortality 
and extended life expectancy. However, there is still a critical need for novel 
vaccination strategies and vaccines. Antigen cargo delivery by 
nanoparticle-based carriers could promote superior protection against constantly 
emerging viruses and subsequent diseases. This should be sustained by the 
induction of vigorous cellular and humoral immunity, capable of acting both at 
the systemic and mucosal levels. Induction of antigen-specific responses at the 
portal of entry of pathogens is considered an important scientific challenge. 
Chitosan, which is widely regarded as a biodegradable, biocompatible and 
non-toxic material for functionalized nanocarriers, as well as having adjuvant 
activity, enables antigen administration via less-invasive mucosal routes such 
as sublingual or pulmonic application route. In this proof of principle study, 
we evaluate the efficacy of chitosan nanocarriers loaded with the model antigen 
Ovalbumin (OVA) co-administrated with the STING agonist bis-(3',5')-cyclic 
dimeric adenosine monophosphate (c-di-AMP) given by pulmonary route. Here, 
BALB/c mice were immunized with four doses of the formulation that stimulates 
enhanced antigen-specific IgG titers in sera. In addition, this vaccine 
formulation also promotes a strong Th1/Th17 response characterized by high 
secretion of IFN-γ, IL-2 and IL-17, as well as induction of CD8+ T cells. 
Furthermore, the novel formulation exhibited strong dose-sparing capacity, 
enabling a 90% reduction of the antigen concentration. Altogether, our results 
suggest that chitosan nanocarriers, in combination with the mucosal adjuvant 
c-di-AMP, are a promising technology platform for the development of innovative 
mucosal vaccines against respiratory pathogens (e.g., Influenza or RSV) or for 
therapeutic vaccines.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics15041238
PMCID: PMC10145907
PMID: 37111723

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no other conflict of 
interest than the above-mentioned patents. The company Merck KGaA had no role in 
the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; 
in the writing of the manuscript, and in the decision to publish the results. 
C.A.G. and T.E. are named as inventors in a patent application covering the use 
of c-di-AMP as adjuvant (PCT/EP 2006010693). R.S., A.A., A.H. and M.W. are named 
as inventors in a patent covering antigen-loaded chitosan nanoparticles for 
immunotherapy (WO2015/185180A1).


965. Plants (Basel). 2023 Apr 13;12(8):1641. doi: 10.3390/plants12081641.

Identification of Novel QTLs Associated with Frost Tolerance in Winter Wheat 
(Triticum aestivum L.).

Bolouri P(1), Haliloğlu K(1), Mohammadi SA(2), Türkoğlu A(3), İlhan E(4), 
Niedbała G(5), Szulc P(6), Niazian M(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Field Crops, Faculty of Agriculture, Ataturk University, 25240 
Erzurum, Turkey.
(2)Department of Plant Breeding and Biotechnology, Faculty of Agriculture, 
University of Tabriz, Tabriz 5166616471, Iran.
(3)Department of Field Crops, Faculty of Agriculture, Necmettin Erbakan 
University, 42310 Konya, Turkey.
(4)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Erzurum Technical University, 
25240 Erzurum, Turkey.
(5)Department of Biosystems Engineering, Faculty of Environmental and Mechanical 
Engineering, Poznań University of Life Sciences, Wojska Polskiego 50, 60-627 
Poznań, Poland.
(6)Department of Agronomy, Poznań University of Life Sciences, Dojazd 11, 60-632 
Poznań, Poland.
(7)Field and Horticultural Crops Research Department, Kurdistan Agricultural and 
Natural Resources Research and Education Center, Agricultural Research, 
Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Sanandaj 6616936311, Iran.

Low temperature (cold) and freezing stress is a major problem during winter 
wheat growth. Low temperature tolerance (LT) is an important agronomic trait in 
winter wheat and determines the plants' ability to cope with below-freezing 
temperatures; thus, the development of cold-tolerant cultivars has become a 
major goal of breeding in various regions of the world. In this study, we sought 
to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) using molecular markers related to 
freezing tolerance in winter. Thirty-four polymorphic markers among 425 SSR 
markers were obtained for the population, including 180 inbred lines of F12 
generation wheat, derived from crosses (Norstar × Zagros) after testing with 
parents. LT50 is used as an effective selection criterion for identifying 
frost-tolerance genotypes. The progeny of individual F12 plants were used to 
evaluate LT50. Several QTLs related to wheat yield, including heading time 
period, 1000-seed weight, and number of surviving plants after overwintering, 
were identified. Single-marker analysis illustrated that four SSR markers with a 
total of 25% phenotypic variance determination were linked to LT50. Related QTLs 
were located on chromosomes 4A, 2B, and 3B. Common QTLs identified in two 
cropping seasons based on agronomical traits were two QTLs for heading time 
period, one QTL for 1000-seed weight, and six QTLs for number of surviving 
plants after overwintering. The four markers identified linked to LT50 
significantly affected both LT50 and yield-related traits simultaneously. This 
is the first report to identify a major-effect QTL related to frost tolerance on 
chromosome 4A by the marker XGWM160. It is possible that some QTLs are closely 
related to pleiotropic effects that control two or more traits simultaneously, 
and this feature can be used as a factor to select frost-resistant lines in 
plant breeding programs.

DOI: 10.3390/plants12081641
PMCID: PMC10146367
PMID: 37111864

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest to 
declare.


966. Sensors (Basel). 2023 Apr 17;23(8):4037. doi: 10.3390/s23084037.

Longitudinal Gait Analysis of a Transfemoral Amputee Patient: Single-Case Report 
from Socket-Type to Osseointegrated Prosthesis.

Di Paolo S(1), Barone G(1), Alesi D(2), Mirulla AI(1)(3), Gruppioni E(4), 
Zaffagnini S(2), Bragonzoni L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department for Life Quality Studies, University of Bologna, 47921 Rimini, 
Italy.
(2)II Orthopaedic and Traumatologic Clinic, IRCCS Istituto Ortopedico Rizzoli, 
40136 Bologna, Italy.
(3)Department of Engineering, University of Palermo, 40126 Palermo, Italy.
(4)Istituto Nazionale Assicurazione Infortuni sul Lavoro (INAIL), Centro Protesi 
Inail, 40054 Vigorso di Budrio, Italy.

The aim of the present case report was to provide a longitudinal functional 
assessment of a patient with transfemoral amputation from the preoperative 
status with socket-type prosthesis to one year after the osseointegration 
surgery. A 44 years-old male patient was scheduled for osseointegration surgery 
17 years after transfemoral amputation. Gait analysis was performed through 15 
wearable inertial sensors (MTw Awinda, Xsens) before surgery (patient wearing 
his standard socket-type prosthesis) and at 3-, 6-, and 12-month follow-ups 
after osseointegration. ANOVA in Statistical Parametric Mapping was used to 
assess the changes in amputee and sound limb hip and pelvis kinematics. The gait 
symmetry index progressively improved from the pre-op with socket-type (1.14) to 
the last follow-up (1.04). Step width after osseointegration surgery was half of 
the pre-op. Hip flexion-extension range significantly improved at follow-ups 
while frontal and transverse plane rotations decreased (p < 0.001). Pelvis 
anteversion, obliquity, and rotation also decreased over time (p < 0.001). 
Spatiotemporal and gait kinematics improved after osseointegration surgery. One 
year after surgery, symmetry indices were close to non-pathological gait and 
gait compensation was sensibly decreased. From a functional point of view, 
osseointegration surgery could be a valid solution in patients with transfemoral 
amputation facing issues with traditional socket-type prosthesis.

DOI: 10.3390/s23084037
PMCID: PMC10143735
PMID: 37112378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


967. Orthop J Sports Med. 2023 Apr 21;11(4):23259671231162389. doi: 
10.1177/23259671231162389. eCollection 2023 Apr.

Effects of Preserving Anatomically Positioned and Adequate Remnant ACL Tissue in 
Double-Bundle ACL Reconstruction.

Sato D(1), Inoue M(1), Kasahara Y(1), Hamano H(1), Suzuki R(1), Kondo E(2), 
Iwasaki N(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, NTT East Japan Sapporo Hospital, Sapporo, 
Japan.
(2)Centre for Sports Medicine, Hokkaido University Hospital, Sapporo, Japan.
(3)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Faculty of Medicine and Graduate School of 
Medicine, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The advantages of remnant tissue preservation in anterior cruciate 
ligament (ACL) reconstruction (ACLR) remain controversial.
HYPOTHESIS: It was hypothesized that a large amount of remnant tissue, 
especially if anatomically positioned, would improve patient-reported outcomes 
and second-look graft appearance after preserved double-bundle ACLR (DB-ACLR).
STUDY DESIGN: Cohort study; Level of evidence, 3.
METHODS: This retrospective study included 89 consecutive patients who underwent 
unilateral remnant-preserving DB-ACLR using 2 hamstring tendon autografts. The 
authors categorized the arthroscopic findings into 3 groups according to the 
location and volume of the ACL remnant tissue in the femoral notch: (1) 
anatomical attachment (group AA; n = 34); (2) nonanatomical attachment (group 
NA; n = 33); and (3) no remnant (group NR; n = 22). Based on second-look 
arthroscopy, the reconstructed graft was graded as excellent, fair, or poor. 
Patient-reported outcomes were evaluated at 2 years after surgery using the Knee 
injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) and the Japanese Anterior 
Cruciate Ligament Questionnaire-25 (JACL-25).
RESULTS: The AA and NA groups had a significantly shorter time from injury to 
surgery compared with the NR group (P = .0165). Considering the second-look 
arthroscopic findings, the authors found a significant difference in synovial 
coverage of the grafts between the 3 groups (P = .0018). There were no 
significant differences in the overall KOOS and JACL-25 score among the 3 
groups; however, the KOOS-Sport and Recreation and KOOS-Quality of Life subscale 
scores were significantly higher in the AA group compared with the NA and NR 
groups (P = .0014 and .0039, respectively). The JACL-25 score for middle- to 
high-speed flexion and extension was significantly better in the AA group versus 
the NR group (P = .0261).
CONCLUSION: This study showed that preserving anatomically positioned and 
adequate remnant tissue during DB-ACLR improved second-look graft appearance and 
KOOS-Sport and Recreation and KOOS-Quality of Life scores.

© The Author(s) 2023.

DOI: 10.1177/23259671231162389
PMCID: PMC10126626
PMID: 37113140

Conflict of interest statement: One or more of the authors has declared the 
following potential conflict of interest or source of funding: This work was 
supported by JSPS KAKENHI (grant JP 21K16698). AOSSM checks author disclosures 
against the Open Payments Database (OPD). AOSSM has not conducted an independent 
investigation on the OPD and disclaims any liability or responsibility relating 
thereto.


968. Cureus. 2023 Mar 26;15(3):e36701. doi: 10.7759/cureus.36701. eCollection
2023  Mar.

The Association of Diabetic Cheiroarthropathy With Microvascular Complications 
of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: A Cross-Sectional Study.

Paul A(1), Gnanamoorthy K(1).

Author information:
(1)General Medicine, Sri Ramasamy Memorial (SRM) Medical College Hospital and 
Research Centre, Potheri, IND.

Introduction Diabetic cheiroarthropathy (DCA), also known as the syndrome of 
limited joint mobility (LJM), is among the most underdiagnosed complications of 
diabetes mellitus (DM). Although not severe, it can hamper the day-to-day 
activities of the patient and significantly reduce the quality of life. It is 
hypothesized to be due to increased glycation of collagen around joints. The 
objective of our study was to examine the association of diabetic 
cheiroarthropathy with microvascular complications of type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
Methods The study was conducted on 251 previously diagnosed cases of type 2 DM. 
Patients with previous contractures due to any other cause, who are diagnosed 
cases of rheumatoid arthritis and scleroderma, and other risk factors such as 
cardiac or renal disease were excluded from the study. All subjects were 
subjected to a detailed clinical history including a past history, thorough 
physical examination, prayer test, tabletop sign, and passive extension of 
fingers. Patients who are diagnosed with diabetic cheiroarthropathy were then 
screened for microalbuminuria, fundus examination, and monofilament 
test and clinical examination to look for the presence of microvascular 
complications. Results Out of the 251 patients, 46 (18.3%) were found to have 
diabetic cheiroarthropathy. Fifteen (34.9%) cheiroarthropathy patients had 
neuropathy compared to 14.9% without diabetic cheiroarthropathy, which was 
statistically significant. We found that there was an increased incidence of 
diabetic neuropathy in subjects with cheiroarthropathy. Thirty (35.7%) patients 
with diabetic cheiroarthropathy had diabetic retinopathy compared to 9.6% 
without diabetic cheiroarthropathy. Twenty-six (26.8%) patients with diabetic 
cheiroarthropathy had diabetic nephropathy compared to 13% without diabetic 
cheiroarthropathy. We identified from our study that patients with diabetic 
cheiroarthropathy had an increased risk of developing microvascular 
complications. Conclusion There is an increased prevalence of diabetic 
nephropathy, diabetic neuropathy, and diabetic retinopathy in patients with 
diabetic cheiroarthropathy. The presence of diabetic cheiroarthropathy hence 
warrants better control of the patient's glycemic status to prevent further 
deterioration of diabetes-related complications.

Copyright © 2023, Paul et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.36701
PMCID: PMC10129041
PMID: 37113343

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


969. Cureus. 2023 Mar 26;15(3):e36703. doi: 10.7759/cureus.36703. eCollection
2023  Mar.

HIV-Positive Patient With Non-Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI)-Amenable 
Left Coronary Artery Aneurysms Presenting With ST-Elevation Myocardial 
Infarction (STEMI).

Khan RM(1), Najam US(1), Cheikh Debs DA(2), Myers J(2), Graham S(2).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, USA.
(2)Cardiology, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, USA.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) was first reported in the early 1980s and a 
once untreatable and fatal disease has since allowed individuals to live healthy 
lives with the advent of novel antiviral medications. While the life expectancy 
of an HIV-positive individual has dramatically increased, a myriad of 
HIV-related complications such as pneumocystis pneumonia, candidiasis, renal 
disease, anxiety/depression, and cardiovascular disease have dramatically 
decreased. However, these patients are still prone to complex medical problems. 
In this case report, we aim to highlight a rare, complicated case of an 
HIV-positive patient with coronary artery aneurysms complicated by an 
ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI).

Copyright © 2023, Khan et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.36703
PMCID: PMC10128888
PMID: 37113349

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


970. Cureus. 2023 Apr 20;15(4):e37889. doi: 10.7759/cureus.37889. eCollection
2023  Apr.

An Overview of the Use of Precision Population Medicine in Cancer Care: First of 
a Series.

Yang J(1), Nittala MR(1), Velazquez AE(2), Buddala V(1), Vijayakumar S(1).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, USA.
(2)Medicine, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, USA.

Advances in science and technology in the past century and a half have helped 
improve disease management, prevention, and early diagnosis and better health 
maintenance. These have led to a longer life expectancy in most developed and 
middle-income countries. However, resource- and infrastructure-scarce countries 
and populations have not enjoyed these benefits. Furthermore, in every society, 
including in developed nations, the lag time from new advances, either in the 
laboratory or from clinical trials, to using those findings in day-to-day 
medical practice often takes many years and sometimes close to or longer than a 
decade. A similar trend is seen in the application of "precision medicine" (PM) 
in terms of improving population health (PH). One of the reasons for such lack 
of application of precision medicine in population health is the 
misunderstanding of equating precision medicine with genomic medicine (GM) as if 
they are the same. Precision medicine needs to be recognized as encompassing 
genomic medicine in addition to other new developments such as big data 
analytics, electronic health records (EHR), telemedicine, and information 
communication technology. By leveraging these new developments together and 
applying well-tested epidemiological concepts, it can be posited that 
population/public health can be improved. In this paper, we take cancer as an 
example of the benefits of recognizing the potential of precision medicine in 
applying it to population/public health. Breast cancer and cervical cancer are 
taken as examples to demonstrate these hypotheses. There exists significant 
evidence already to show the importance of recognizing "precision population 
medicine" (PPM) in improving cancer outcomes not only in individual patients but 
also for its applications in early detection and cancer screening (especially in 
high-risk populations) and achieving those goals in a more cost-efficient manner 
that can reach resource- and infrastructure-scarce societies and populations. 
This is the first report of a series that will focus on individual cancer sites 
in the future.

Copyright © 2023, Yang et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.37889
PMCID: PMC10129036
PMID: 37113463

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


971. Ther Adv Hematol. 2023 Apr 22;14:20406207231166779. doi: 
10.1177/20406207231166779. eCollection 2023.

Efficacy and safety of damoctocog alfa pegol prophylaxis in patients ⩾40 years 
with severe haemophilia A and comorbidities: post hoc analysis from the PROTECT 
VIII study.

Reding MT(1), Pabinger I(2), Holme PA(3), Maas Enriquez M(4), Mancuso ME(5), 
Lalezari S(6), Miesbach W(7), Di Minno G(8), Klamroth R(9), Hermans C(10).

Author information:
(1)Center for Bleeding and Clotting Disorders, University of Minnesota Medical 
Center, 420 Delaware Street SE, MMC 480, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA.
(2)University Clinic for Internal Medicine I, Medical University of Vienna, 
Vienna, Austria.
(3)Department of Haematology, Oslo University Hospital and Institute of Clinical 
Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(4)Bayer AG, Wuppertal, Germany.
(5)Center for Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic Diseases, IRCCS Humanitas Research 
Hospital, Milan, Italy; Humanitas University, Milan, Italy.
(6)National Haemophilia Centre, Chaim Sheba Medical Centre, Tel Aviv University, 
Tel Aviv, Israel.
(7)University Hospital Frankfurt, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(8)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Naples 
Federico II, Naples, Italy.
(9)Vivantes Hospital Friedrichshain, Berlin, Germany.
(10)Division of Haematology, Cliniques Universitaires Saint-Luc, Université 
Catholique de Louvain (UCLouvain), Louvain, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Advances in treatment have enabled patients with haemophilia A to 
live longer and therefore may be subjected to comorbidities associated with 
ageing, in addition to disease-associated morbidities. There have been few 
reports to date on efficacy and safety of treatment specifically in patients 
with severe haemophilia A and comorbidities.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the efficacy and safety of damoctocog alfa pegol 
prophylaxis in patients with severe haemophilia A aged ⩾40 years with 
comorbidities of interest.
DESIGN: A post hoc analysis of data from the phase 2/3 PROTECT VIII study and 
its extension.
METHODS: Bleeding and safety outcomes were analysed in a subgroup of patients 
aged ⩾40 years with ⩾1 comorbidity receiving damoctocog alfa pegol (BAY 94-9027; 
Jivi®) prophylaxis.
RESULTS: Thirty-four patients with severe haemophilia A were included in this 
analysis, with a mean age of 49.4 years at time of enrolment. The most prevalent 
comorbidities were hepatitis C (n = 33; chronic, n = 23), hepatitis B (n = 8) 
and hypertension (n = 11). Four patients had human immunodeficiency virus. All 
received damoctocog alfa pegol prophylaxis for the entire study [median (range) 
time in study = 3.9 (1.0-6.9) years]. During the main study and extension, 
median total annualised bleeding rates (ABRs) (Q1; Q3) were 2.1 (0.0; 5.8) and 
2.2 (0.6; 6.0), respectively; median joint ABRs were 1.9 (0.0; 4.4) and 1.6 
(0.0; 4.0), respectively. Mean adherence with prophylaxis schedule was greater 
than 95% throughout the study. No deaths or thrombotic events were reported.
CONCLUSION: Efficacy, safety and adherence of damoctocog alfa pegol were 
confirmed in patients aged ⩾40 years with haemophilia A and one or more 
comorbidities, with data for up to 7 years supporting its use as a long-term 
treatment option in this group.
PLAIN LANGUAGE SUMMARY: Advances in treatment mean that people with haemophilia 
A are now living longer and, as a result, may have additional medical conditions 
that occur with ageing. We aimed to investigate the efficacy and safety of the 
long-acting replacement factor VIII damoctocog alfa pegol in people with severe 
haemophilia A who had additional medical conditions. To do this, we investigated 
the recorded information about patients aged 40 years of age or older who had 
been treated with damoctocog alfa pegol in a previously completed clinical 
trial. We found that the treatment was well-tolerated; no deaths or thrombotic 
events (undesirable clotting events) were reported. Treatment was efficacious in 
reducing bleeding in this group of patients. The findings support the use of 
damoctocog alfa pegol as a long-term treatment for older patients with 
haemophilia A and coexisting conditions.

© The Author(s), 2023.

DOI: 10.1177/20406207231166779
PMCID: PMC10126693
PMID: 37113811

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared the following potential 
conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship and/or 
publication of this article: M.T.R. has received grants and research support 
from Bayer and BioMarin; honoraria and consultation fees from Bayer, CSL 
Behring, Novo Nordisk, Sanofi Genzyme and Takeda and participates in a company 
sponsored speakers bureau for Bayer, CSL Behring, Sanofi Genzyme and Takeda. 
I.P. has received honoraria for lectures and advisory board meetings from Bayer, 
Biotest, CSL Behring, Octapharma, Pfizer, Shire, Novo Nordisk, Sobi, Roche, and 
has received unrestricted research grants from CSL Behring and Novo Nordisk. 
P.A.H. has received grants and research support from Bayer, Octapharma, Pfizer, 
and Shire; and consultation fees from Bayer, Novo Nordisk, Octapharma, Pfizer, 
Shire and Sobi. M.M.E. is an employee at Bayer. M.E.M. has received honoraria 
and consultation fees from Bayer, Bioverativ, Catalyst, CSL Behring, Grifols, 
Kedrion, Novo Nordisk, Octapharma, Pfizer, Roche, BioMarin, Shire/Takeda and 
Sobi; participates in a company sponsored speakers bureau for Bayer, CSL 
Behring, Grifols, Kedrion, Novo Nordisk, Octapharma, Pfizer, Roche, BioMarin, 
Shire/Takeda and Sobi. S.L. has participated in advisory boards for Bayer; and 
received honoraria or consultation fees from Bayer, Teva Pharmaceuticals, 
Takeda, PI Healthcare, Roche and Pfizer. W.M. has received grant and research 
support from Bayer, Biotest, CSL, LFB, Novo Nordisk, Octapharma, Pfizer, Sobi, 
Takeda and UniQure; received consultation fees from BioMarin, Freeline, LFB, 
Octapharma, Sobi, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Octapharma, Pfizer and Roche; and 
participated in speaker bureaux for Shire, Pfizer, Bayer, Sobi, Amgen, Novartis, 
Alexion, Leo Pharma, Grifols, Roche and Novo Nordisk. G.D.M. has participated in 
speaker bureaux for Bayer, CSL Behring, Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, Sobi and Takeda; 
and has received consultancy or speaker fees from Bayer, Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, 
Sanofi Aventis and Sobi. R.K. has received grants and research support from 
Bayer, Novo Nordisk and Sobi; honoraria and consultation fees from Bayer, 
BioMarin, CSL Behring, Novo Nordisk, Octapharma, Pfizer, Roche, Sobi and Takeda; 
participates in a company sponsored speakers bureau for Bayer, BioMarin, CSL 
Behring, Novo Nordisk, Octapharma, Pfizer, Roche, Sobi and Takeda. C.H. provides 
paid consultancies and has received invitations to give lectures for Shire, 
Pfizer, Bayer, Octapharma, LFB, CAF-DCF, Roche, Novo Nordisk, CSL Behring, Sobi 
Bioverativ and Kedrion.


972. J Oncol. 2023 Apr 18;2023:6318548. doi: 10.1155/2023/6318548. eCollection
2023.

Expression of Th1/2/17 Cytokines in CML with or without Pulmonary Bacterial and 
Fungal Coinfection.

Guan X(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Zhang C(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Hu P(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Yang 
Z(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Zhang J(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Zou Y(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Wen 
Y(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Li H(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Yang T(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Zhao 
R(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Li Z(1)(2)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, The First People's Hospital of Yunnan Province, 
Affiliated Hospital of Kunming University of Science and Technology, Kunming, 
China.
(2)Yunnan Blood Disease Clinical Medical Center, The First People's Hospital of 
Yunnan Province, Kunming, China.
(3)Yunnan Blood Disease Hospital, The First People's Hospital of Yunnan 
Province, Kunming, China.
(4)National Key Clinical Specialty of Hematology, The First People's Hospital of 
Yunnan Province, Kunming, China.
(5)Yunnan Clinical Medical Research Center for Hematological Diseases, Kunming, 
China.

BACKGROUND: Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are the standard therapy for 
patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). While their use greatly increases 
patient survival rates and can lead to normal life expectancy, bacterial 
infections in the lungs continue to play a significant role in determining 
patient outcomes.
METHODS: In this study, the medical records of 272 CML and 53 healthy adults 
were analyzed. Information on age, sex, body temperature, procalcitonin (PCT), 
C-reactive protein (CRP), and cytokine levels were collected from patients. 
Since the data belonged to a nonstate distribution, we used the Mann-Whitney U 
test to examine differences between groups. Cut-off values were analyzed by 
receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves.
RESULTS: No significant differences in the Th1/2/17 levels were observed in 
relation to TKI treatment. Further analysis showed that the levels of the 
interleukins IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-22, IL-12p70, IL-17A, 
IL-17F, and IL-1β, interferon (IFN-γ), and tumor necrosis factors (TNF α and β) 
were higher in patients with pulmonary bacterial infections compared with 
uninfected patients. IL-6, IL-8, and IL-10 levels in CML patients with bacterial 
and fungal coinfection were higher than those in patients without infection. The 
areas under the ROC curves (AUCs) were found to be 0.73 for IL-5, 0.84 for IL-6, 
0.82 for IL-8, 0,71 for IL-10, and 0.84 for TNF-α. AUC values were higher for 
patients with pulmonary bacterial infection, especially IL-6 (AUC = 0.84, 
cut-off = 13.78 pg/ml) and IL-8 (AUC = 0.82, cut-off = 14.35 pg/ml), which were 
significantly better than those for CRP (AUC = 0.80, cut-off = 6.18 mg/l), PCT 
(AUC = 0.71, cut-off = 0.25 ng/ml), and body temperature (AUC = 0.68, 
cut-off = 36.8°C). In addition, according to the cut-off values, we found that 
83.33% of patients with pulmonary bacterial infections had IL-6 ≥ 13.78 pg/ml, 
while when IL-6, IL-8, and IL-10 levels simultaneously exceeded the cut-off 
values, the probability of pulmonary bacterial infection was 93.55%.
CONCLUSIONS: TKI treatment did not appear to affect cytokine expression in CML 
patients. However, CML patients with pulmonary bacterial infection had 
significantly higher levels of Th1/2/17 cytokines. In particular, abnormally 
elevated IL-6, IL-8, and IL-10 levels were associated with a pulmonary bacterial 
infection in patients with CML.

Copyright © 2023 Xin Guan et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2023/6318548
PMCID: PMC10129429
PMID: 37114211

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


973. Front Neurol. 2023 Apr 11;14:1099376. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2023.1099376. 
eCollection 2023.

A single relapse induces worsening of disability and health-related quality of 
life in patients with neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder.

Berthele A(1), Levy M(2), Wingerchuk DM(3), Pittock SJ(4), Shang S(5), Kielhorn 
A(5), Royston M(5), Sabatella G(5), Palace J(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, Technical University Munich, 
