fluorodeoxyglucose-PET and MRI). We used within-group locally estimated 
scatterplot smoothing models to compare the trajectory of biomarker changes with 
age in females versus males, as well as by apolipoprotein ɛ4 carriership. Our 
work revealed similar prevalence, age at diagnosis and Cambridge Cognitive 
Examination for Older Adults with Down Syndrome scores by sex, but males showed 
lower modified cued recall test scores from age 45 compared with females. AT(N) 
biomarkers were comparable in males and females. When considering apolipoprotein 
ɛ4, female ɛ4 carriers showed a 3-year earlier age at diagnosis compared with 
female non-carriers (50.5 versus 53.2 years, P = 0.01). This difference was not 
seen in males (52.2 versus 52.5 years, P = 0.76). Our exploratory analyses 
considering sex, apolipoprotein ɛ4 and biomarkers showed that female ɛ4 carriers 
tended to exhibit lower CSF amyloid-β 42/amyloid-β 40 ratios and lower 
hippocampal volume compared with females without this allele, in line with the 
clinical difference. This work showed that biological sex did not influence 
clinical and biomarker profiles of Alzheimer's disease in adults with Down 
syndrome. Consideration of apolipoprotein ɛ4 haplotype, particularly in females, 
may be important for clinical research and clinical trials that consider this 
population. Accounting for, reporting and publishing sex-stratified data, even 
when no sex differences are found, is central to helping advance precision 
medicine.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/braincomms/fcad074
PMCID: PMC10088472
PMID: 37056479

Conflict of interest statement: O.B. reported receiving personal fees from ADx 
NeuroSciences outside the submitted work. H.Z. declares that he has served on 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Alector, Annexon, 
Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, Nervgen, Pinteon 
Therapeutics, Red Abbey Labs, Passage Bio, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, 
Triplet Therapeutics and Wave, has given lectures in symposia sponsored by 
Cellectricon, Fujirebio, Alzecure, Biogen and Roche and is a co-founder of Brain 
Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB, which is a part of the GU Ventures 
Incubator Program, outside the submitted work. K.B. declares that he has served 
as a consultant, on advisory boards, or data monitoring committees for Abcam, 
Axon, BioArctic, Biogen, JOMDD/Shimadzu, Julius Clinical, Lilly, MagQu, 
Novartis, Pharmatrophix, Prothena, Roche Diagnostics and Siemens Healthineers 
and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg AB, which is a 
part of the GU Ventures Incubator Program, outside the submitted work. D.A. 
reported receiving personal fees for advisory board services and/or speaker 
honoraria from Fujirebio-Europe, Roche, Nutricia, Krka Farmacéutica and Esteve, 
outside the submitted work. A.L. has served as a consultant or on advisory 
boards for Fujirebio-Europe, Roche, Biogen and Nutricia, outside the submitted 
work. J.F. reported receiving personal fees for service on the advisory boards, 
adjudication committees or speaker honoraria from AC Immune, Novartis, Lundbeck, 
Roche, Fujirebio and Biogen, outside the submitted work. O.B., D.A., A.L. and 
J.F. report holding a patent for markers of synaptopathy in neurodegenerative 
disease (licensed to ADx, EPI8382175.0). No other competing interests were 
reported. References1HentzenNB, FerrettiMT, SantuccioneA, et alMapping of 
European activities on the integration of sex and gender factors in neurology 
and neuroscience. Eur J Neurol. 2022;29(9):2572–2579.2Spires-JonesTL. Let's talk 
about sex (in translational neuroscience). Brain Commun. 
2022;4(2):fcac028.3GauthierS, Rosa-NetoP, MoraisJA, WebsterC. World Alzheimer 
Report 2021: Journey through the diagnosis of dementia. 2021.4FerrettiMT, 
IulitaMF, CavedoE, et alSex differences in Alzheimer disease—The gateway to 
precision medicine. Nat Rev Neurol. 2018;14(8):457–469.299854745NebelRA, 
AggarwalNT, BarnesLL, et alUnderstanding the impact of sex and gender in 
Alzheimer's disease: A call to action. Alzheimers Dement. 
2018;14(9):1171–1183.299074236McCarreyAC, AnY, Kitner-TrioloMH, FerrucciL, 
ResnickSM. Sex differences in cognitive trajectories in clinically normal older 
adults. Psychol Aging. 2016;31(2):166–175.267967927SundermannEE, MakiP, BiegonA, 
et alSex-specific norms for verbal memory tests may improve diagnostic accuracy 
of amnestic MCI. Neurology. 2019;93(20):e1881–e1889.315977088DigmaLA, MadsenJR, 
RissmanRA, et alWomen can bear a bigger burden: Ante- and post-mortem evidence 
for reserve in the face of tau. Brain Commun. 2020;2(1):fcaa025.9LawsKR, 
IrvineK, GaleTM. Sex differences in cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease. 
World J Psychiatry. 2016;6(1):54–65.2701459810SohnD, ShpanskayaK, LucasJE, et 
alSex differences in cognitive decline in subjects with high likelihood of mild 
cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer's disease. Sci Rep. 
2018;8(1):7490.2974859811LinKA, ChoudhuryKR, RathakrishnanBG, et alMarked gender 
differences in progression of mild cognitive impairment over 8 years. Alzheimers 
Dement (N Y). 2015;1(2):103–110.2645138612MielkeMM. Consideration of sex 
differences in the measurement and interpretation of Alzheimer disease-related 
biofluid-based biomarkers. J Appl Lab Med. 
2020;5(1):158–169.3181107313BuckleyRF, MorminoEC, RabinJS, et alSex differences 
in the association of global amyloid and regional tau deposition measured by 
positron emission tomography in clinically normal older adults. JAMA Neurol. 
2019;76(5):542–551.3071507814BuckleyRF, ScottMR, JacobsHIL, et alSex mediates 
relationships between regional tau pathology and cognitive decline. Ann Neurol. 
2020;88(5):921–932.3279936715EdwardsL, La JoieR, IaccarinoL, et alMultimodal 
neuroimaging of sex differences in cognitively impaired patients on the 
Alzheimer's continuum: Greater tau-PET retention in females. Neurobiol Aging. 
2021;105:86–98.3404906216LiesingerAM, Graff-RadfordNR, DuaraR, et alSex and age 
interact to determine clinicopathologic differences in Alzheimer's disease. Acta 
Neuropathol. 2018;136(6):873–885.3021993917OveisgharanS, ArvanitakisZ, YuL, 
FarfelJ, SchneiderJA, BennettDA. Sex differences in Alzheimer's disease and 
common neuropathologies of aging. Acta Neuropathol. 
2018;136(6):887–900.3033407418BridelC, van WieringenWN, ZetterbergH, et 
alDiagnostic value of cerebrospinal fluid neurofilament light protein in 
neurology: A systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA Neurol. 
2019;76(9):1035–1048.3120616019NeuSC, PaJ, KukullW, et alApolipoprotein E 
genotype and sex risk factors for Alzheimer disease: A meta-analysis. JAMA 
Neurol. 2017;74(10):1178–1189.2884675720SampedroF, VilaplanaE, de LeonMJ, et 
alAPOE-by-sex interactions on brain structure and metabolism in healthy elderly 
controls. Oncotarget. 2015;6(29):26663–26674.2639722621HohmanTJ, DumitrescuL, 
BarnesLL, et alSex-specific association of apolipoprotein E with cerebrospinal 
fluid levels of tau. JAMA Neurol. 2018;75(8):989–998.2980102422WangYT, 
PascoalTA, TherriaultJ, et alInteractive rather than independent effect of APOE 
and sex potentiates tau deposition in women. Brain Commun. 
2021;3(2):fcab126.23YanS, ZhengC, ParanjpeMD, et alSex modifies APOE epsilon4 
dose effect on brain tau deposition in cognitively impaired individuals. Brain. 
2021;144(10):3201–3211.3387681524McCarronM, McCallionP, ReillyE, DunneP, 
CarrollR, MulryanN. A prospective 20-year longitudinal follow-up of dementia in 
persons with Down syndrome. J Intellect Disabil Res. 
2017;61(9):843–852.2866456125ForteaJ, VilaplanaE, Carmona-IraguiM, et alClinical 
and biomarker changes of Alzheimer's disease in adults with Down syndrome: A 
cross-sectional study. Lancet. 2020;395(10242):1988–1997.3259333626SnyderHM, 
BainLJ, BrickmanAM, et alFurther understanding the connection between 
Alzheimer's disease and Down syndrome. Alzheimers Dement. 
2020;16(7):1065–1077.3254431027LemereCA, BlusztajnJK, YamaguchiH, WisniewskiT, 
SaidoTC, SelkoeDJ. Sequence of deposition of heterogeneous amyloid beta-peptides 
and APO E in Down syndrome: Implications for initial events in amyloid plaque 
formation. Neurobiol Dis. 1996;3(1):16–32.917391028WisniewskiKE, WisniewskiHM, 
WenGY. Occurrence of neuropathological changes and dementia of Alzheimer's 
disease in Down's syndrome. Ann Neurol. 1985;17(3):278–282.315826629ForteaJ, 
ZamanSH, HartleyS, RafiiMS, HeadE, Carmona-IraguiM. Alzheimer's disease 
associated with Down syndrome: A genetic form of dementia. Lancet Neurol. 
2021;20(11):930–942.3468763730BatemanRJ, XiongC, BenzingerTL, et alClinical and 
biomarker changes in dominantly inherited Alzheimer's disease. N Engl J Med. 
2012;367(9):795–804.2278403631RafiiMS, AncesBM, SchupfN, et alThe AT(N) 
framework for Alzheimer's disease in adults with Down syndrome. Alzheimers 
Dement (Amst). 2020;12(1):e12062.32SchupfN, KapellD, NightingaleB, RodriguezA, 
TyckoB, MayeuxR. Earlier onset of Alzheimer's disease in men with Down syndrome. 
Neurology. 1998;50(4):991–995.956638433LaiF, KammannE, RebeckGW, AndersonA, 
ChenY, NixonRA. APOE genotype and gender effects on Alzheimer disease in 100 
adults with Down syndrome. Neurology. 1999;53(2):331–336.1043042234SinaiA, 
MokryszC, BernalJ, et alPredictors of age of diagnosis and survival of 
Alzheimer's disease in Down syndrome. J Alzheimers Dis. 
2018;61(2):717–728.2922686835LaiF, MhatrePG, YangY, WangMC, SchupfN, RosasHD. 
Sex differences in risk of Alzheimer's disease in adults with Down syndrome. 
Alzheimers Dement (Amst). 2020;12(1):e12084.36MhatrePG, LeeJH, PangD, et alThe 
association between sex and risk of Alzheimer's disease in adults with Down 
syndrome. J Clin Med. 2021;10(13):2966.3427945037RafiiMS, ZamanS, HandenBL. 
Integrating biomarker outcomes into clinical trials for Alzheimer's disease in 
Down syndrome. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2021;8(1):48–51.3333622438AnnusT, 
WilsonLR, HongYT, et alThe pattern of amyloid accumulation in the brains of 
adults with Down syndrome. Alzheimers Dementia. 2016;12(5):538–545.39AlcoleaD, 
ClarimonJ, Carmona-IraguiM, et alThe Sant Pau initiative on neurodegeneration 
(SPIN) cohort: A data set for biomarker discovery and validation in 
neurodegenerative disorders. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 
2019;5:597–609.3165001640AylwardEH, BurtDB, ThorpeLU, LaiF, DaltonA. Diagnosis 
of dementia in individuals with intellectual disability. J Intellect Disabil 
Res. 1997;41(Pt 2):152–164.916192741Esteba-CastilloS, Dalmau-BuenoA, 
Ribas-VidalN, Vila-AlsinaM, Novell-AlsinaR, Garcia-AlbaJ. [Adaptation and 
validation of CAMDEX-DS (Cambridge examination for mental disorders of older 
people with Down's syndrome and others with intellectual disabilities) in 
Spanish population with intellectual disabilities]. Rev Neurol. 
2013;57(8):337–346. Adaptacion y validacion del Cambridge Examination for Mental 
Disorders of Older People with Down's Syndrome and Others with Intellectual 
Disabilities (CAMDEX-DS) en poblacion espanola con discapacidad 
intelectual.2408188842BenejamB, VidelaL, VilaplanaE, et alDiagnosis of prodromal 
and Alzheimer's disease dementia in adults with Down syndrome using 
neuropsychological tests. Alzheimers Dement (Amst). 2020;12(1):e12047.43ForteaJ, 
Carmona-IraguiM, BenejamB, et alPlasma and CSF biomarkers for the diagnosis of 
Alzheimer's disease in adults with Down syndrome: A cross-sectional study. 
Lancet Neurol. 2018;17(10):860–869.3017262444AlcoleaD, PeguerolesJ, MunozL, et 
alAgreement of amyloid PET and CSF biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease on 
Lumipulse. Ann Clin Transl Neurol. 2019;6(9):1815–1824.3146408845DelabyC, 
EstellesT, ZhuN, et alThe Abeta1–42/Abeta1–40 ratio in CSF is more strongly 
associated to tau markers and clinical progression than Abeta1–42 alone. 
Alzheimers Res Ther. 2022;14(1):20.3510535146LleoA, ZetterbergH, PeguerolesJ, et 
alPhosphorylated tau181 in plasma as a potential biomarker for Alzheimer's 
disease in adults with Down syndrome. Nat Commun. 
2021;12(1):4304.3426203047LandauSM, HarveyD, MadisonCM, et alAssociations 
between cognitive, functional, and FDG-PET measures of decline in AD and MCI. 
Neurobiol Aging. 2011;32(7):1207–1218.1966083448AvantsBB, TustisonNJ, SongG, 
CookPA, KleinA, GeeJC. A reproducible evaluation of ANTs similarity metric 
performance in brain image registration. Neuroimage. 
2011;54(3):2033–2044.2085119149ZammitMD, LaymonCM, BetthauserTJ, et alAmyloid 
accumulation in Down syndrome measured with amyloid load. Alzheimers Dement 
(Amst). 2020;12(1):e12020.50KlunkWE, KoeppeRA, PriceJC, et alThe Centiloid 
project: Standardizing quantitative amyloid plaque estimation by PET. Alzheimers 
Dement. 2015;11(1):1–15e1–4.2544385751HastieTJ. Generalized additive models. In: 
Chambers JM, Hastie TJ, eds. Statistical models in S. Wadsworth & Brooks; 
1992:309–376.52FerrettiMT, MartinkovaJ, BiskupE, et alSex and gender differences 
in Alzheimer's disease: Current challenges and implications for clinical 
practice: Position paper of the Dementia and Cognitive Disorders Panel of the 
European Academy of Neurology. Eur J Neurol. 
2020;27(6):928–943.3205634753RaghavanR, Khin-NuC, BrownAG, et alGender 
differences in the phenotypic expression of Alzheimer's disease in Down's 
syndrome (trisomy 21). Neuroreport. 1994;5(11):1393–1396.791920754SchupfN, 
PangD, PatelBN, et alOnset of dementia is associated with age at menopause in 
women with Down's syndrome. Ann Neurol. 2003;54(4):433–438.1452065355JansenWJ, 
OssenkoppeleR, KnolDL, et alPrevalence of cerebral amyloid pathology in persons 
without dementia: A meta-analysis. JAMA. 
2015;313(19):1924–1938.2598846256BuckleyRF, MorminoEC, AmariglioRE, et alSex, 
amyloid, and APOE epsilon4 and risk of cognitive decline in preclinical 
Alzheimer's disease: Findings from three well-characterized cohorts. Alzheimers 
Dement. 2018;14(9):1193–1203.2980354157GurRC, TuretskyBI, MatsuiM, et alSex 
differences in brain gray and white matter in healthy young adults: Correlations 
with cognitive performance. J Neurosci. 
1999;19(10):4065–4072.1023403458WisniewskiKE, DaltonAJ, McLachlanC, WenGY, 
WisniewskiHM. Alzheimer's disease in Down's syndrome: Clinicopathologic studies. 
Neurology. 1985;35(7):957–961.315997459MannDM. The pathological association 
between Down syndrome and Alzheimer disease. Mech Ageing Dev. 
1988;43(2):99–136.296944160BallMJ, NuttallK. Topography of neurofibrillary 
tangles and granulovacuoles in hippocampi of patients with Down's syndrome: 
Quantitative comparison with normal ageing and Alzheimer's disease. Neuropathol 
Appl Neurobiol. 1981;7(1):13–20.645330161MotteJ, WilliamsRS. Age-related changes 
in the density and morphology of plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in Down 
syndrome brain. Acta Neuropathol. 1989;77(5):535–546.252415062Vila-CastelarC, 
Guzman-VelezE, Pardilla-DelgadoE, et alExamining sex differences in markers of 
cognition and neurodegeneration in autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease: 
Preliminary findings from the Colombian Alzheimer's prevention initiative 
biomarker study. J Alzheimers Dis. 2020;77(4):1743–1753.3292506763OssenkoppeleR, 
LyooCH, Jester-BromsJ, et alAssessment of demographic, genetic, and imaging 
variables associated with brain resilience and cognitive resilience to 
pathological tau in patients with Alzheimer disease. JAMA Neurol. 
2020;77(5):632–642.3209154964BejaninA, IulitaMF, VilaplanaE, et alAssociation of 
apolipoprotein E varepsilon4 allele with clinical and multimodal biomarker 
changes of Alzheimer disease in adults with Down syndrome. JAMA Neurol. 
2021;78(8):937–947.3422804265CacciagliaR, SalvadoG, MolinuevoJL, et alAge, sex 
and APOE-epsilon4 modify the balance between soluble and fibrillar beta-amyloid 
in non-demented individuals: Topographical patterns across two independent 
cohorts. Mol Psychiatry. 2022;27(4):2010–2018.3523695866ChoSH, WooS, KimC, et 
alDisease progression modelling from preclinical Alzheimer's disease (AD) to AD 
dementia. Sci Rep. 2021;11(1):4168.3360301567MathysH, Davila-VelderrainJ, PengZ, 
et alSingle-cell transcriptomic analysis of Alzheimer's disease. Nature. 
2019;570(7761):332–337.3104269768AndrewsEJ, MartiniAC, HeadE. Exploring the role 
of sex differences in Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis in Down syndrome. Front 
Neurosci. 2022;16:954999.69SchupfN, ZigmanW, KapellD, LeeJH, KlineJ, LevinB. 
Early menopause in women with Down's syndrome. J Intellect Disabil Res. 
1997;41(Pt 3):264–267.921907670CoppusA, EvenhuisH, VerberneGJ, et alEarly age at 
menopause is associated with increased risk of dementia and mortality in Down 
syndrome. J Appl Res Intellect Disabil. 2010;23(5):408–408.71AlmeyA, MilnerTA, 
BrakeWG. Estrogen receptors in the central nervous system and their implication 
for dopamine-dependent cognition in females. Horm Behav. 
2015;74:125–138.2612229472SpampinatoSF, MolinaroG, MerloS, et alEstrogen 
receptors and type 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors are interdependent in 
protecting cortical neurons against beta-amyloid toxicity. Mol Pharmacol. 
2012;81(1):12–20.2198425373LiangK, YangL, YinC, et alEstrogen stimulates 
degradation of beta-amyloid peptide by up-regulating neprilysin. J Biol Chem. 
2010;285(2):935–942.1989748574AmtulZ, WangL, WestawayD, RozmahelRF. 
Neuroprotective mechanism conferred by 17beta-estradiol on the biochemical basis 
of Alzheimer's disease. Neuroscience. 2010;169(2):781–786.2049392875Batallan 
BurrowesAA, OlajideOJ, IasenzaIA, ShamsWM, CarterF, ChapmanCA. Ovariectomy 
reduces cholinergic modulation of excitatory synaptic transmission in the rat 
entorhinal cortex. PLoS One. 2022;17(8):e0271131.76TaxierLR, PhilippiSM, 
FleischerAW, YorkJM, LaDuMJ, FrickKM. APOE4 homozygote females are resistant to 
the beneficial effects of 17beta-estradiol on memory and CA1 dendritic spine 
density in the EFAD mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Neurobiol Aging. 
2022;118:13–24.3584310977BrintonRD. Cellular and molecular mechanisms of 
estrogen regulation of memory function and neuroprotection against Alzheimer's 
disease: Recent insights and remaining challenges. Learn Mem. 
2001;8(3):121–133.1139063278Garcia-SeguraLM, AzcoitiaI, DonCarlosLL. 
Neuroprotection by estradiol. Prog Neurobiol. 
2001;63(1):29–60.1104041779CosgraveMP, TyrrellJ, McCarronM, GillM, LawlorBA. Age 
at onset of dementia and age of menopause in women with Down's syndrome. J 
Intellect Disabil Res. 1999;43(Pt 6):461–465.1062236180SchupfN, WinstenS, 
PatelB, et alBioavailable estradiol and age at onset of Alzheimer's disease in 
postmenopausal women with Down syndrome. Neurosci Lett. 
2006;406(3):298–302.1692606781SchupfN, LeeJH, WeiM, et alEstrogen receptor-alpha 
variants increase risk of Alzheimer's disease in women with Down syndrome. 
Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2008;25(5):476–482.1840836682de Gonzalo-CalvoD, 
BarroetaI, NanMN, et alEvaluation of biochemical and hematological parameters in 
adults with Down syndrome. Sci Rep. 2020;10(1):13755.3279261983StartinCM, 
D'SouzaH, BallG, et alHealth comorbidities and cognitive abilities across the 
lifespan in Down syndrome. J Neurodev Disord. 2020;12(1):4.3197369784IulitaMF, 
GarzonD, ChristensenMK, et alAssociation of Alzheimer disease with life 
expectancy in people with Down syndrome. JAMA Network Open. 
2022;5(5):e2212910.85PatelBN, SeltzerGB, WuHS, SchupfN. Effect of menopause on 
cognitive performance in women with Down syndrome. Neuroreport. 
2001;12(12):2659–2662.1152294386CoppusAMW, EvenhuisHM, VerberneGJ, et alEarly 
age at menopause is associated with increased risk of dementia and mortality in 
women with Down syndrome. J Alzheimers Dis. 2010;19(2):545–550.20110600


798. Cureus. 2023 Mar 12;15(3):e36048. doi: 10.7759/cureus.36048. eCollection
2023  Mar.

Prevalence and Associated Risk Factors of Age-Related Macular Degeneration in 
the Retina Clinic at a Tertiary Center in Makkah Province, Saudi Arabia: A 
Retrospective Record Review.

Abusharkh FH(1), Kurdi L(1), Shigdar RW(1), Mandura RA(2), Alattas K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, King Abdulaziz University Faculty of Medicine, 
Jeddah, SAU.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, King Abdulaziz University Hospital, Jeddah, SAU.

Background Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a progressive disease 
involving the macular region of the retina and is considered a significant cause 
of vision loss worldwide. With the increase in life expectancy in various 
countries, this problem has become more apparent. We retrospectively evaluated 
the prevalence of AMD among patients visiting the retina clinic at King 
Abdulaziz University Hospital (Jeddah, Makkah Province, Saudi Arabia) to 
identify the commonly associated risk factors of AMD. Methods The records of 
3,067 individuals from 2017 to 2021 were reviewed. Of these, 1,935 were enrolled 
in the study. Results The prevalence of AMD among the patients was 4%. Regarding 
non-modifiable risk factors, age and having a family history of AMD showed a 
significant association (p = 0.001 and 0.043, respectively). However, sex and 
nationality were not significantly associated. As for modifiable risk factors, 
smoking and hypertension demonstrated a significant relationship (p < 0.001 and 
p = 0.002, respectively). However, the association with diabetes mellitus and 
dyslipidemia was not significant. Conclusion Our study shows that AMD is widely 
prevalent in Saudi Arabia and is associated with age, family history, smoking, 
and hypertension. Therefore, patients at risk of AMD must be screened and 
managed promptly before disease progression.

Copyright © 2023, Abusharkh et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.36048
PMCID: PMC10089638
PMID: 37056542

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


799. Theranostics. 2023 Mar 5;13(5):1545-1570. doi: 10.7150/thno.82790.
eCollection  2023.

Nanoparticle formulations for therapeutic delivery, pathogen imaging and 
theranostic applications in bacterial infections.

Jiang L(1), Ding L(1), Liu G(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Vaccinology and Molecular Diagnostics & 
Center for Molecular Imaging and Translational Medicine, School of Public 
Health, Xiamen University, 361102, China.

Pathogenic bacterial infections represent an ever-growing crisis, now 
significantly threatening life expectancy across the worldwide population and 
thus novel approaches to tackle this issue are urgently needed. The application 
of nanotechnology in recent years has opened up new horizons in the selective or 
specific delivery of drugs or imaging agents to infectious sites. In particular, 
the development of nanoparticles for both delivery of active substances and 
imaging of infection sites is now gathering much interest. Although still in its 
infancy, the field of antibacterial nanomedicines provides exciting new 
possibilities to combat multi-resistant bacterial infections and shows great 
promise for personalized medicine in antibacterial stewardship. This review 
examines nanoparticle-based formulations used for therapeutic delivery, pathogen 
tracking in diagnosis, and combined "theranostic" approaches to more effectively 
treating bacterial infections.

© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/thno.82790
PMCID: PMC10086212
PMID: 37056563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


800. J Orthop Case Rep. 2022 Dec;12(12):54-57. doi:
10.13107/jocr.2022.v12.i12.3462.

Emergently Managed Rare Case of Extraosseous Hemorrhagic Spinal Epidural 
Cavernous Hemangioma: A Case Report.

Kothari A(1), Katkade S(1), Bhilare P(1), Sancheti P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Spine, Sancheti Institute of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, 
Pune, Maharashtra, India.

INTRODUCTION: Commonly spinal cavernous hemangioma (CH) is found in vertebral 
body at thoracic level. Purely extraosseous epidural CH contributes only 4% of 
all CH. In addition, these patients usually present in their 3rd-6th decade of 
life. Here, we report emergently treated rare case of hemorrhagic extraosseous 
epidural thoracic CH in a 26-year-old male.
CASE REPORT: A 26-year-old male presented with inability to walk without support 
with acute onset paraparesis and hypoesthesia below D7 with positive myelopathy 
signs. Magnetic resonance imaging showed posterior epidural well-defined 
homogenous mass from D6-8 region. PET scan ruled out other primary lesions in 
body. Intraoperative after D6-8 laminectomy extradural vascular mass was found 
which was bleeding on touch. With adequate hemostasis complete mass was excised 
and sent for sampling which revealed CH. The patient showed gradual clinical 
recovery with complete neurological recovery after 3 months with no signs of 
clinical and radiological recurrence on 2 years of follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Extraosseous epidural CH is very rare presentation; hence, the 
differentials of schwannoma, lymphoma, tubercular/pyogenic epidural abscess, 
metastasis, and others must always be ruled out. They can present a decade 
earlier in a case of hemorrhagic CH with rapid progressive neurological deficit 
which warrants early surgical decompression like in our case and the foraminal 
or paravertebral extension needs foraminotomy or thoracotomy for complete 
excision.

Copyright: © Indian Orthopaedic Research Group.

DOI: 10.13107/jocr.2022.v12.i12.3462
PMCID: PMC10088375
PMID: 37056588

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: Nil


801. Front Public Health. 2023 Mar 28;11:1112789. doi:
10.3389/fpubh.2023.1112789.  eCollection 2023.

Acceptability and perception of COVID-19 vaccines among foreign medical students 
in China: A cross-sectional study.

Arthur C(1)(2)(3)(4), Dong Z(1)(2)(3), Abudu H(5), Li M(1)(2)(3), Munthali 
GNC(6), Zhang C(1)(2)(3), Zhang S(1)(2)(3), Han R(1)(2)(3), Ogbordjor S(7), 
Dormocara A(8), Ja L(1)(2)(3), Zhang D(9), Zhang H(1)(2)(3), Huangfu H(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, First Hospital of Shanxi 
Medical University, Taiyuan, Shanxi, China.
(2)Shanxi Key Laboratory of Otorhinolaryngology Head and Neck Cancer, First 
Hospital of Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, Shanxi, China.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, 
China.
(4)Department of Otolaryngology, Regional Hospital Sunyani, Sunyani, Ghana.
(5)College of Overseas Education Chengdu University, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.
(6)Department of Finance and Accounting, Mzuzu University, Mzuzu, Malawi.
(7)First Klass Klassic Hospital, Konongo, Ghana.
(8)Soochow University Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences Pharmaceutics, 
Suzhou, Jiangsu, China.
(9)Department of Basic Medical, Shanxi Medical University, Jinzhong, Shanxi, 
China.

BACKGROUND: Acceptability and perception of the COVID-19 vaccine among different 
social groups have been the subject of several studies. However, little is known 
about foreign medical students in Chinese universities.
AIM: This study, therefore, fills the literature gap using a focus group 
technique to assess the acceptance and perception of the COVID-19 vaccine among 
foreign medical students in China.
METHODS: The study adopted an online cross-sectional survey method following the 
Chinese universities' lockdowns to collect the data between March and April 
2022. A data collection questionnaire was developed, and then the link was 
shared with the respondents through key informants in different universities in 
China to obtain the data. The data collection process only included foreign 
medical students who were in China from May 2021 to April 2022. The authors 
received a total of 403 responses from the respondents. During data processing, 
we excluded 17 respondents since they were not in China while administering the 
questionnaire to enhance the data validity. The authors then coded the remaining 
386 respondents for the estimation process. We finally applied the multilinear 
logistics regression technique to model the COVID-19 vaccine acceptance with the 
response or influencing factors, including the mediating factors among the 
foreign medical students in China.
RESULTS: The data statistics show that 4.9% of the respondents were younger than 
20 years, 91.5% were 20-40 years old, and 3.6% were older than 40 years; 36.3% 
of respondents were female subjects and 63.7% were male subjects. The results 
also show that the respondents are from six continents, including the African 
continent, 72.4%, Asia 17.4%, 3.1% from Europe, 2.8% from North America, 1.6% 
from Australia, and 2.3% from South America. The mediation analysis for the 
gender variable (β = 0.235, p = 0.002) suggests that gender is a significant 
channel in COVID-19 vaccine acceptance and perception among foreign medical 
students in China. Also, the main analysis shows that opinion on the safety of 
the vaccine (β = 0.081, p = 0.043), doses of the vaccine to receive (β = 0.175, 
p = 0.001), vaccine safety with some side effects (β = 0.15, p = 0.000), and the 
possibility of acquiring COVID-19 after vaccination (β = 0.062, p = 0.040) are 
all positive factors influencing vaccine acceptability and perception. Also, the 
home continent (β = -0.062, p = 0.071) is a negative factor influencing COVID-19 
vaccine acceptance and perception. Furthermore, the finding shows that fear 
perceptions has affected 200 (51.81%) respondents. The medical students feared 
that the vaccines might result in future implications such as infertility, 
impotence, and systemic health conditions such as cardiovascular, respiratory, 
or deep vein thrombosis. In addition, 186 (48.19%) students feared that the 
vaccines were intended to shorten life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: COVID-19 vaccination acceptability and perception among medical 
students in China is high, most predominantly due to their knowledge of medicine 
composition formulation. Despite widespread acceptance by the general public and 
private stakeholders, we concluded that vaccination resistance remains a 
significant factor among medical students and trainees. The study further adds 
that in considering the COVID-19 vaccine, the factor of the home continent plays 
a significant role in vaccine hesitancy among foreign medical students. Also, 
knowledge, information, and education are important pillars confronting new 
medicine administered among medical trainees. Finally, there is a low rate of 
COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy among foreign medical students in China. The study, 
therefore, recommends targeted policy strategies, including sensitization, 
detailed public information, and education, especially for medical colleges and 
institutions on the COVID-19 vaccination, to achieve 100%. Furthermore, the 
study recommends that future researchers explore other factors influencing 
accurate information and education for successful COVID-19 vaccination 
implementation.

Copyright © 2023 Arthur, Dong, Abudu, Li, Munthali, Zhang, Zhang, Han, 
Ogbordjor, Dormocara, Ja, Zhang, Zhang and Huangfu.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1112789
PMCID: PMC10086183
PMID: 37056651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


802. Front Public Health. 2023 Mar 28;11:1086863. doi:
10.3389/fpubh.2023.1086863.  eCollection 2023.

Factors associated with medication interruption among outpatients with severe 
mental illness exposed to COVID-19.

Jiao J(1), Ji Y(2), Ren H(3), Hao Y(4), Shen X(4), Dong Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Sleep Medicine Center, Mental Health Center, Translational Neuroscience 
Center, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(2)West China School of Public Health, West China Fourth Hospital of Sichuan 
University, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.
(3)The Fourth People's Hospital of Chengdu, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.
(4)Mental Health Center, West China Hospital of Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
Sichuan, China.

Many patients with severe mental illness (SMI) relapsed and deteriorated during 
the COVID-19 pandemic, as they experienced medication interruption. This study 
aimed to investigate factors affecting medication interruption in patients with 
SMI during the COVID-19 pandemic. A total of 2,077 patients with SMI 
participated in an online survey on medication interruption during the COVID-19 
outbreak. The questionnaire comprised six parts: basic demographic information, 
COVID-19 exposure, state of disease, medication compliance before COVID-19, 
medication interruption during COVID-19, and the specific impact and needs. A 
total of 2,017 valid questionnaires were collected. Nearly 50% of patients with 
SMI have been affected to varying degrees of life expectancy and treatment. 
Among them, 74 patients stopped taking medicines for more than 14 days without a 
prescription. Logistic regression analysis showed that cohabitant exposure 
[OR = 26.629; 95% CI (3.293-215.323), p = 0.002], medication partial compliance 
and non-compliance pre-COVID-19 [OR = 11.109; 95% CI (6.093-20.251), p < 0.001; 
OR = 20.115; 95% CI (10.490-38.571), p < 0.001], and disease status [OR = 0.326; 
95% CI (0.188-0.564), p < 0.001] were related to medication interruption. More 
than 50% of the patients wanted help in taking medications, follow-up, and 
receiving more financial support and protective materials. We found that the 
daily lives of patients with SMI were much more susceptible to impact during the 
pandemic. Patients with a history of partial or non-medication compliance before 
COVID-19 and an unstable disease state are more easily affected by pandemics and 
epidemics and need extra attention should similar large-scale outbreaks occur in 
the future.

Copyright © 2023 Jiao, Ji, Ren, Hao, Shen and Dong.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1086863
PMCID: PMC10086339
PMID: 37056653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as potential conflicts of interest.


803. Front Public Health. 2023 Mar 28;11:1061453. doi:
10.3389/fpubh.2023.1061453.  eCollection 2023.

Global, regional, and national burden of 10 digestive diseases in 204 countries 
and territories from 1990 to 2019.

Wang R(1)(2), Li Z(1)(2), Liu S(1)(2), Zhang D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The Third Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)Hunan Key Laboratory of Non-resolving Inflammation and Cancer, Changsha, 
Hunan, China.

BACKGROUND: Digestive diseases are very common worldwide and account for 
considerable health care use and expenditures. However, there are no global 
population-based estimates of the disease burden and temporal trend of digestive 
diseases.
METHODS: Annual case numbers, age-standardized rates of prevalence, incidence, 
death, and disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), and their estimated annual 
percentage changes (EAPCs) for digestive diseases between 1990 and 2019 were 
derived from the Global Burden of Disease, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study 
(GBD) 2019. The association between digestive disease burden and the 
sociodemographic index (SDI) was investigated. We also calculated DALYs 
attributable to risk factors that had evidence of causation with digestive 
diseases.
RESULTS: Globally, in 2019, there were 88.99 million DALYs due to digestive 
diseases (3.51% of global DALYs). Digestive diseases were the 13th leading cause 
of DALYs globally in 2019. Global digestive disease DALYs were highest in the 
middle SDI quintile and in South Asia and were higher in males than females in 
2019. Cirrhosis and other chronic liver diseases constituted the highest 
proportion of categorized digestive disease DALY burdens globally. From 1990 to 
2019, the global age-standardized DALY rate of digestive diseases decreased from 
1570.35 in 1990 to 1096.99 in 2019 per 1,00,000 population, with the EAPC being 
-1.32 (95% confidence interval [CI] -1.36 to -1.27). In 2019, the largest 
contributor to digestive disease DALYs at the global level, for both sexes, was 
alcohol use.
CONCLUSION: The results of this systematic analysis suggest that the global 
burden of digestive diseases is substantial and varies markedly according to 
age, sex, SDI, and geographical region. These results provide comprehensive and 
comparable estimates that can potentially inform efforts toward digestive 
disease control worldwide.

Copyright © 2023 Wang, Li, Liu and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1061453
PMCID: PMC10088561
PMID: 37056655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


804. Front Public Health. 2023 Mar 28;11:1118501. doi:
10.3389/fpubh.2023.1118501.  eCollection 2023.

Impacts of health expenditures and environmental degradation on health 
status-Disability-adjusted life years and infant mortality.

Omri A(1), Kahouli B(2), Kahia M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Business Administration, College of Business and Economics, 
Qassim University, Buraidah, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Community College, University of Ha'il, Ha'il, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Finance and Economics, College of Business and Economics, 
Qassim University, Buraidah, Saudi Arabia.

INTRODUCTION: Human health and well-being are intimately related to 
environmental quality. In this respect, the present study contributes to the 
existing health economic literature by examining whether public and private 
health expenditures (PPHE) moderate the incidences of environmental degradation 
on the health status in Saudi Arabia, particularly disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs) and infant mortality.
METHODS: Using the fully modified ordinary least squares (FMOLS) method.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The empirical results revealed that (i) unconditional 
positive impacts of CO2 emissions on increasing DALYs and infant mortality; (ii) 
conditional negative impacts of public health expenditures on DALYs and infant 
mortality in all the estimated models, whereas global and private expenditure 
contribute only on reducing infant mortality; (iii) public health expenditure is 
more effective than private health expenditure in reducing infant mortality; 
(iv) the effects of the interactions between the indicators of both health 
expenditures and CO2 emissions on DALYs and infant mortality are negative and 
significant only for the specifications relating to public health expenditures, 
indicating that this later could be employed as a policy or conditional variable 
that moderates the adverse impacts of carbon emissions on the population's 
health status. Generally, the study presents an overview of environmental health 
change's effects and examine how these effects may be reduced through increasing 
health spending. The study provides recommendations for addressing health 
status, health expenditures, and carbon emissions, all of which are directly or 
indirectly linked to the study.

Copyright © 2023 Omri, Kahouli and Kahia.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1118501
PMCID: PMC10086125
PMID: 37056662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


805. Front Med (Lausanne). 2023 Mar 28;10:1071537. doi:
10.3389/fmed.2023.1071537.  eCollection 2023.

Evaluating the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on the physicians' psychological 
health: A systematic scoping review.

Guraya SS(1), Menezes P(1), Lawrence IN(2), Guraya SY(3), Rashid-Doubell F(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Royal College of Surgeons Ireland - Medical University 
Bahrain, Muharraq, Bahrain.
(2)NHS Grampian, Aberdeen, United Kingdom.
(3)Clinical Sciences Department, College of Medicine, University of Sharjah, 
Sharjah, United Arab Emirates.

BACKGROUND: COVID-19 has endangered healthcare systems at multiple levels 
worldwide. Published data suggests that moral dilemmas faced during these 
unprecedented times have placed physicians at the intersections of ethical and 
unethical considerations. This phenomenon has questioned the physicians' 
morality and how that has affected their conduct. The purpose of our review is 
to tap into the spectrum of the transforming optics of patient care during the 
pandemic and its impact on psychological wellbeing of physicians.
METHODS: We adopted the Arksey and O'Malley's framework, defining research 
questions, identifying relevant studies, selecting the studies using agreed 
inclusion and exclusion criteria, charting the data, and summarizing and 
reporting results. Databases of PubMed/Medline, Web of Science, Scopus, Science 
Direct, CINAHL, and PsycInfo were searched using a predefined search string. The 
retrieved titles and abstracts were reviewed. Later, a detailed full-text 
analysis of the studies which matched our inclusion criteria was performed.
RESULTS: Our first search identified 875 titles and abstracts. After excluding 
duplicates, irrelevant, and incomplete titles, we selected 28 studies for 
further analysis. The sample size in 28 studies was 15,509 with an average size 
of 637 per study. Both quantitative and qualitative approaches were used, with 
cross-sectional surveys being utilized in all 16 quantitative studies. Using the 
data from semi-structured interviews, several discrete codes were generated, 
which led to the identification of five main themes; mental health, individual 
challenges, decision-making, change in patient care, and support services.
CONCLUSION: This scoping review reports an alarming rise in psychological 
distress, moral injury, cynicism, uncertainty, burnout, and grief among 
physicians during the pandemic. Decision-making and patient care were mostly 
regulated by rationing, triaging, age, gender, and life expectancy. Poor 
professional controls and institutional services potentially led to physicians' 
crumbling wellbeing. This research calls for the remediation of the 
deteriorating mental health and a restoration of medical profession's advocacy 
and equity.

Copyright © 2023 Guraya, Menezes, Lawrence, Guraya and Rashid-Doubell.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2023.1071537
PMCID: PMC10086257
PMID: 37056734

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


806. Asian J Neurosurg. 2023 Mar 27;18(1):70-74. doi: 10.1055/s-0043-1761232. 
eCollection 2023 Mar.

Validating the Efficacy of Two Burr-Hole Craniostomy over Mini-Craniotomy for 
Chronic Subdural Hematoma Drainage.

Hegde P(1), Nayak B(1), Madishetty A(1), Perikal PJ(1), Furtado SV(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, MS Ramaiah Medical College and Hospital, 
Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.

Background  There is an increasing incidence of chronic subdural hematoma due to 
extended life expectancy and associated trauma and fall risk. This retrospective 
study evaluates the efficacy of two burr-hole craniotomy over mini-craniotomy. 
Methods  Sixty-five patients were recruited over 2 years, of which 56 were male 
and 9 were females. A patient with a chronic subdural hematoma either underwent 
burr-hole craniostomy or mini-craniotomy for hematoma evacuation. Glasgow coma 
scale (GCS) and modified Rankin score were used to assess the neurological 
status and interventional outcome at discharge and follow-up, respectively. A 
head CT scan was performed at 3 week and 3 month follow-up. Statistical Analysis 
 Categorical data are presented as frequency and percentage, while 
non-categorical data are represented as mean ± SD. Statistical significance for 
difference in outcome between the two groups was analyzed using the chi-square 
test and p -value less than 0.05 was considered statistically significant. 
Results  The mean age of patients was 55.6 years. Headache (35 cases), 
hemiparesis, and altered sensorium were seen in 20 patients, each with the main 
presenting symptoms. Trauma history was noted in 69.2% of patients. One (3.7%) 
hematoma recurrence in the burr-hole group and four (8.3%) in the 
mini-craniotomy group was recorded. The mean operative time was longer in the 
minicraniotomy group (124.2 min vs. 75.4 min; p  < 0.001). A higher incidence of 
recurrence was noted in the craniotomy group (8.3%) than the burr-hole group 
(3.7%). No statistical difference in the recurrence rate, duration of hospital 
stay, GCS at discharge, modified Rankin score between the two study groups at 
discharge was noted. Conclusion  Two burr-hole craniostomy is a safe and 
effective surgical option to treat chronic subdural hematoma. It is also 
validated in patients on anticoagulants and antiplatelet medications with 
adequate pre-surgical correction of coagulation parameters.

Asian Congress of Neurological Surgeons. This is an open access article 
published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons 
Attribution-NonDerivative-NonCommercial License, permitting copying and 
reproduction so long as the original work is given appropriate credit. Contents 
may not be used for commercial purposes, or adapted, remixed, transformed or 
built upon. ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ ).

DOI: 10.1055/s-0043-1761232
PMCID: PMC10089736
PMID: 37056871

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest None declared.


807. Front Pediatr. 2023 Mar 28;11:1120256. doi: 10.3389/fped.2023.1120256. 
eCollection 2023.

The diagnosis and treatment of a special rare type of Monteggia equivalent 
fractures in children.

Su F(1)(2)(3), Li M(1)(2)(3), Ma Y(1)(2)(3), Yang Y(1)(2)(3), Hao X(1)(2)(3), 
Jia H(1)(2)(3), Dang Y(1)(2)(3), Lu Q(1)(2)(3), Liu C(1)(2)(3), Yang S(1)(2)(3), 
Wang H(1)(2)(3), Wang B(1)(2)(3), Jie Q(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Orthopedics, Honghui Hospital, Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an, China.
(2)Research Center for Skeletal Developmental Deformity and Injury Repair, 
School of Life Science and Medicine, Northwest University, Xi'an, China.
(3)Clinical Research Center for Pediatric Skeletal Deformity and Injury of 
Shaanxi Province, Xi'an, China.

PURPOSE: To explore the characteristics, mechanism, treatment, and prognosis of 
head-neck separation type of Monteggia equivalent fractures in children.
METHODS: Patients with this injury were reviewed retrospectively. The lesion was 
characterized by a fracture of the ulnar with radial neck fracture but without 
dislocation of the radial head. Our classification was based on the direction of 
displacement and angulation of fractures on radiographs, divided into the 
extension-valgus type and flexion-varus type. The fractures were treated with 
reduction and internal fixation, depending on the fracture type. The clinical 
results were evaluated by using radiology and the Mayo Elbow Performance Score 
(MEPS).
RESULTS: A total of 12 patients were followed up for an average of 40.5 months. 
The ulnar fractures were treated with closed reduction (CR) and K-wire fixation 
in one patient, elastic stable intramedullary nail (ESIN) fixation in four 
patients, open reduction (OR) and plate fixation in five, with no fixation in 
two. CR with ESIN fixation was successful in 11 patients with radial neck 
fractures, but one underwent OR and K-wire fixation. All fractures healed on 
time, with fewer complications (avascular necrosis in one patient, and bulk 
formation of metaphysis in another). The therapeutic efficacy was evaluated by 
using MEPS and was found to be excellent in 10 patients, good in one, and fair 
in another.
CONCLUSIONS: The head-neck separation type of Monteggia equivalent fractures in 
children is rare. Its characteristics are different from that of Monteggia 
fracture. The length and anatomic structure of the ulna should be restored and 
stabilized first, while the radial neck fracture should be treated with CR and 
ESIN fixation. Satisfactory clinical results can be achieved with fewer 
complications.

© 2023 Su, Li, Ma, Yang, Hao, Jia, Dang, Lu, Liu, Yang, Wang, Wang and Jie.

DOI: 10.3389/fped.2023.1120256
PMCID: PMC10086178
PMID: 37056941

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


808. Health Promot Int. 2023 Apr 1;38(2):daad021. doi: 10.1093/heapro/daad021.

Supporting reorientation of health services in Indigenous Australian 
communities: the health promotion systems assessment tool.

Percival N(1), Feeney L(2), Laycock A(2), Bailie R(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Faculty of Health, University of Technology Sydney, 
PO Box 123, Broadway, NSW 2007Australia.
(2)The Centre for Rural Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

Few tools and mechanisms exist to assist the reorientation of health services, 
especially in the Indigenous Australian health context; where improving health 
status and life expectancy is a priority. We developed a health promotion 
systems assessment tool (HPSAT) to provide health services with the information 
and support they need to drive health system change. Tool development occurred 
using a participatory, iterative approach that included a literature review, 
expert input by Indigenous and non-Indigenous stakeholders and annual group 
workshops in four Indigenous Australian primary health care (PHC) services. Four 
health system components: (i) organizational environment; (ii) service delivery 
systems; (iii) information systems and decision support; and (iv) adaptability 
and integration, form the framework of the tool. A scoring system monitors 
system change over time. The HPSAT provides a constructive framework to support 
health services to collectively assess and support reorientation in Indigenous 
Australian PHC services. Participation of key stakeholders with an intimate 
knowledge about the local context was pivotal in developing a user-friendly and 
fit-for-purpose tool. Maximum benefits of the tool are likely to be gained when 
used as part of a continuous quality improvement intervention.

Plain Language Summary: Primary health care services are important providers of 
health promotion approaches. In Australia, the health status and life expectancy 
of Indigenous peoples is much lower than that of the general population. Meeting 
Indigenous peoples’ acute and chronic care needs can influence PHC service 
delivery models. Few tools and mechanism are available to support the 
reorientation of Indigenous Australian PHC services from an acute and chronic 
care model to a more comprehensive model, with greater emphasis on health 
promotion and prevention. This article describes the development and trialling 
of a tool providing Indigenous Australian PHC services with the information and 
support they need to reorient their health systems towards health promotion. The 
health promotion systems assessment tool provides a useful framework to 
facilitate collective appraisal of service delivery models and to identify 
opportunities for health system reorientation in Indigenous Australian PHC 
context. The tool has the potential to benefit many other health services 
seeking to reorient their systems towards health promotion.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/heapro/daad021
PMID: 37057391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. J Am Chem Soc. 2023 Apr 26;145(16):8822-8832. doi: 10.1021/jacs.2c11027.
Epub  2023 Apr 14.

Expanding Extender Substrate Selection for Unnatural Polyketide Biosynthesis by 
Acyltransferase Domain Exchange within a Modular Polyketide Synthase.

Englund E(1)(2), Schmidt M(1)(3)(4), Nava AA(3)(5), Lechner A(5)(6), Deng 
K(1)(7), Jocic R(1)(3), Lin Y(8), Roberts J(3)(6), Benites VT(1)(3), Kakumanu 
R(1)(3), Gin JW(1)(3), Chen Y(1)(3), Liu Y(5)(6), Petzold CJ(1)(3), Baidoo 
EEK(1)(3), Northen TR(1)(9), Adams PD(1)(10)(6), Katz L(1)(11), Yuzawa 
S(1)(3)(12)(13), Keasling JD(1)(3)(5)(6)(11)(7)(14)(15).

Author information:
(1)Joint BioEnergy Institute, Emeryville, California 94608, United States.
(2)Science for Life Laboratory, KTH - Royal Institute of Technology, 17165 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Biological Systems and Engineering Division, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, United States.
(4)Institute of Applied Microbiology, Aachen Biology and Biotechnology, RWTH 
Aachen University, 52074 Aachen, Germany.
(5)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, University of 
California, Berkeley, California 94720, United States.
(6)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, Berkeley, California 
94720, United States.
(7)Department of Biomaterials and Biomanufacturing, Sandia National Laboratory, 
Livermore, California 94550, United States.
(8)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley, 
California 94720, United States.
(9)Environmental Genomics and Systems Biology Division, Lawrence Berkeley 
National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, United States.
(10)Molecular Biophysics and Integrated Bioimaging Division, Lawrence Berkeley 
National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, United States.
(11)QB3 Institute, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, United 
States.
(12)Systems Biology Program, Graduate School of Media and Governance, Keio 
University, Fujisawa, Kanagawa 252-0882, Japan.
(13)Institute of Advanced Biosciences, Keio University, Tsuruoka, Yamagata 
997-0017, Japan.
(14)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Biosustainability, Technical University 
of Denmark, Kongens Lyngby 2800, Denmark.
(15)Center for Synthetic Biochemistry, Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced 
Technologies, Shenzhen, Guangdong 518055, China.

Modular polyketide synthases (PKSs) are polymerases that employ 
α-carboxyacyl-CoAs as extender substrates. This enzyme family contains several 
catalytic modules, where each module is responsible for a single round of 
polyketide chain extension. Although PKS modules typically use malonyl-CoA or 
methylmalonyl-CoA for chain elongation, many other malonyl-CoA analogues are 
used to diversify polyketide structures in nature. Previously, we developed a 
method to alter an extension substrate of a given module by exchanging an 
acyltransferase (AT) domain while maintaining protein folding. Here, we report 
in vitro polyketide biosynthesis by 13 PKSs (the wild-type PKS and 12 
AT-exchanged PKSs with unusual ATs) and 14 extender substrates. Our ∼200 in 
vitro reactions resulted in 13 structurally different polyketides, including 
several polyketides that have not been reported. In some cases, AT-exchanged 
PKSs produced target polyketides by >100-fold compared to the wild-type PKS. 
These data also indicate that most unusual AT domains do not incorporate 
malonyl-CoA and methylmalonyl-CoA but incorporate various rare extender 
substrates that are equal to in size or slightly larger than natural substrates. 
We developed a computational workflow to predict the approximate AT substrate 
range based on active site volumes to support the selection of ATs. These 
results greatly enhance our understanding of rare AT domains and demonstrate the 
benefit of using the proposed PKS engineering strategy to produce novel 
chemicals in vitro.

DOI: 10.1021/jacs.2c11027
PMCID: PMC10141241
PMID: 37057992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following competing 
financial interest(s): The authors declare the following competing financial 
inter-est(s): J.D.K has a financial interest in Amyris, Ansa Biotechnol-ogies, 
Apertor Pharma, Berkeley Yeast, Cyklos Materials, Deme-trix, Lygos, Napigen, 
ResVita Bio, and Zero Acre Farms.


810. Adv Healthc Mater. 2023 Jul;12(19):e2203120. doi: 10.1002/adhm.202203120.
Epub  2023 May 2.

A Novel Patient-Personalized Nanovector Based on Homotypic Recognition and 
Magnetic Hyperthermia for an Efficient Treatment of Glioblastoma Multiforme.

De Pasquale D(1), Pucci C(1), Desii A(1), Marino A(1), Debellis D(2), Leoncino 
L(2), Prato M(3), Moscato S(4), Amadio S(1), Fiaschi P(5)(6), Prior A(5), 
Ciofani G(1).

Author information:
(1)Smart Bio-Interfaces, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Viale Rinaldo Piaggio 
34, 56025, Pontedera, Italy.
(2)Electron Microscopy Facility, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Via Morego 30, 
16163, Genova, Italy.
(3)Materials Characterization Facility, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Via 
Morego 30, 16163, Genova, Italy.
(4)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa, Via 
Roma 55, 56126, Pisa, Italy.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo 
Rossana Benzi 10, 16132, Genova, Italy.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, Rehabilitation, Ophthalmology, Genetics, Maternal 
and Child Health (DiNOGMI), University of Genova, Largo Paolo Daneo 3, 16132, 
Genova, Italy.

Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the deadliest brain tumor, characterized by an 
extreme genotypic and phenotypic variability, besides a high infiltrative nature 
in healthy tissues. Apart from very invasive surgical procedures, to date, there 
are no effective treatments, and life expectancy is very limited. In this work, 
an innovative therapeutic approach based on lipid-based magnetic nanovectors is 
proposed, owning a dual therapeutic function: chemotherapy, thanks to an 
antineoplastic drug (regorafenib) loaded in the core, and localized magnetic 
hyperthermia, thanks to the presence of iron oxide nanoparticles, remotely 
activated by an alternating magnetic field. The drug is selected based on ad hoc 
patient-specific screenings; moreover, the nanovector is decorated with cell 
membranes derived from patients' cells, aiming at increasing homotypic and 
personalized targeting. It is demonstrated that this functionalization not only 
enhances the selectivity of the nanovectors toward patient-derived GBM cells, 
but also their blood-brain barrier in vitro crossing ability. The localized 
magnetic hyperthermia induces both thermal and oxidative intracellular stress 
that lead to lysosomal membrane permeabilization and to the release of 
proteolytic enzymes into the cytosol. Collected results show that hyperthermia 
and chemotherapy work in synergy to reduce GBM cell invasion properties, to 
induce intracellular damage and, eventually, to prompt cellular death.

© 2023 The Authors. Advanced Healthcare Materials published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/adhm.202203120
PMID: 37058273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. JAMA Netw Open. 2023 Apr 3;6(4):e238343. doi:
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2023.8343.

Management of Rheumatoid Arthritis With a Digital Health Application: A 
Multicenter, Pragmatic Randomized Clinical Trial.

Li C(1), Huang J(2), Wu H(3), Li F(4), Zhao Y(5), Zhang Z(6), Li S(7), Wei H(8), 
Zhang M(9), Sun H(10), Yang J(11), Li Q(12), Li X(13), Qi W(14), Wei W(15), Li 
Y(16), Li Z(17), Wang Y(18), Zhang F(19), Wu H(20), Shuai Z(21), Wu Z(22), Li 
Y(23), Jia S(24), Jia Y(24), Xiao F(24), Mu R(25), Li Z(1)(26)(27).

