to favor the management of the disease, and could become an auxiliary tool in 
the definition of public policies related to CF.

A fibrose cística (FC) é uma doença genética que resulta em disfunção da 
proteína reguladora de condutância transmembrana da FC (CFTR), que é um canal de 
cloro e bicarbonato expresso na porção apical de células epiteliais de diversos 
órgãos. A disfunção dessa proteína resulta em manifestações clínicas diversas, 
envolvendo primariamente os sistemas respiratório e gastrointestinal com redução 
da qualidade e expectativa de vida. A FC ainda é uma patologia incurável, porém 
o horizonte terapêutico e prognóstico é hoje totalmente distinto e muito mais 
favorável. O objetivo destas diretrizes foi definir recomendações brasileiras 
baseadas em evidências em relação ao emprego de agentes farmacológicos no 
tratamento pulmonar da FC. As perguntas PICO (acrônimo baseado em perguntas 
referentes aos Pacientes de interesse, Intervenção a ser estudada, Comparação da 
intervenção e Outcome [desfecho] de interesse) abordaram aspectos relativos ao 
uso de moduladores de CFTR (ivacaftor, lumacaftor + ivacaftor e tezacaftor + 
ivacaftor), uso de dornase alfa, terapia de erradicação e supressão crônica de 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, e erradicação de Staphylococcus aureus resistente a 
meticilina e do complexo Burkholderia cepacia. Para a formulação das perguntas, 
um grupo de especialistas brasileiros foi reunido e realizou-se uma revisão 
sistemática sobre os temas, com meta-análise quando aplicável. Os resultados 
encontrados foram analisados quanto à força das evidências compiladas, sendo 
concebidas recomendações seguindo a metodologia GRADE. Os autores acreditam que 
o presente documento represente um importante avanço a ser incorporado na 
abordagem de pacientes com FC, objetivando principalmente favorecer seu manejo, 
podendo se tornar uma ferramenta auxiliar na definição de políticas públicas 
relacionadas à FC.

DOI: 10.36416/1806-3756/e20230040
PMCID: PMC10171269
PMID: 37194817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: None declared.


245. Braz Dent J. 2023 Mar-Apr;34(2):97-104. doi: 10.1590/0103-6440202304987.

Low concentrations of grape seed extract maintain osteoblast morphology, cell 
adhesion, and mineralization.

Coelho MC(1), Vetucci VR(1), Fernandes RR(2), Sanchez PKV(3), Siessere S(1), 
Bombonato-Prado KF(1).

Author information:
(1)Bone Research Lab, Department of Basic and Oral Biology, School of Dentistry 
of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(2)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery and Periodontology, School of 
Dentistry of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, SP, 
Brazil.
(3)Unit of Basic Oral Investigation-UIBO, School of Dentistry, Universidad El 
Bosque, Bogotá, Colombia.

The increase in life expectancy has led to a higher incidence of osteoporosis, 
characterized by an imbalance in bone remodeling. Several drugs are used for its 
treatment, but most promote undesirable side effects. The present investigation 
evaluated the effects of two low concentrations of grape seed extract (GSE) rich 
in proanthocyanidins on MC3T3-E1 osteoblastic cells. The cells were cultured in 
an osteogenic medium and divided into control (C), 0.1 µg/mL GSE (GSE0.1), and 
1.0 µg/mL GSE (GSE1.0) groups to evaluate cell morphology, adhesion, and 
proliferation, in situ alkaline phosphatase (ALP) detection, mineralization and 
immunolocalization of osteopontin (OPN). The data obtained were analyzed by 
statistical tests for a significance of 5%. Cell morphology was maintained with 
both GSE concentrations, whereas cell adhesion significantly increased within 
three days in all groups. Cell proliferation increased significantly at seven 
days of culture, followed by a significant decrease in all experimental periods, 
with no statistical difference among them. In situ detection of ALP and 
mineralization increased with time, but within each period, no statistical 
differences among groups were observed. The expression of osteopontin was 
distributed regularly with more intensity after 24 hours in the GSE0.1 group. 
After three days, OPN expression was more intense in the control group, followed 
by GSE0.1 and GSE1.0 groups. Data obtained suggest that low concentrations of 
GSE do not affect the morphology and may stimulate the functional activity of 
osteoblastic cells.

O aumento da expectativa de vida tem levado a uma maior incidência de 
osteoporose, caracterizada por um desequilíbrio na remodelação óssea. Vários 
medicamentos são utilizados para o seu tratamento, contudo, a maioria promove 
efeitos colaterais indesejáveis. A presente investigação avaliou os efeitos de 
duas baixas concentrações de extrato de semente de uva (GSE) rico em 
proantocianidinas em células osteoblásticas MC3T3-E1. As células foram 
cultivadas em meio osteogênico e divididas em grupos controle (C), 0,1 µg/mL de 
GSE (GSE0.1) e 1,0 µg/mL de GSE (GSE1.0) para avaliar morfologia, adesão e 
proliferação celular, detecção in situ de fosfatase alcalina (ALP), 
mineralização e imunolocalização da proteína osteopontina (OPN). Os dados 
obtidos foram analisados por testes estatísticos para um nível de significância 
de 5%. A proliferação celular aumentou significativamente aos sete dias de 
cultura, seguido de uma diminuição significativa em todos os períodos 
experimentais, sem diferença estatística entre eles. A detecção in situ de ALP e 
mineralização aumentou com o tempo, mas dentro de cada período não foram 
observadas diferenças estatísticas entre os grupos. A morfologia celular foi 
mantida com ambas as concentrações de GSE, enquanto a adesão celular aumentou 
significativamente aos três dias em todos os grupos. A expressão de osteopontina 
distribuiu-se regularmente com maior intensidade após 24 horas no grupo GSE0.1. 
Após três dias, a expressão de OPN foi mais intensa no grupo controle, seguida 
pelos grupos GSE0.1 e GSE1.0. Os dados obtidos sugerem que baixas concentrações 
de GSE não afetam a morfologia e podem estimular a atividade funcional das 
células osteoblásticas.

DOI: 10.1590/0103-6440202304987
PMCID: PMC10208284
PMID: 37194860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. World J Urol. 2023 Jun;41(6):1497-1502. doi: 10.1007/s00345-023-04418-8.
Epub  2023 May 17.

Changing nationwide trends away from overtreatment among patients undergoing 
radical prostatectomy over the past 25 years.

Meissner VH(1), Glöckler V(2), Jahnen M(2), Schiele S(2), Gschwend JE(2), 
Herkommer K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Klinikum rechts der Isar, School of Medicine, 
Technical University of Munich, Ismaninger Strasse 22, 81675, Munich, Germany. 
valentin.meissner@tum.de.
(2)Department of Urology, Klinikum rechts der Isar, School of Medicine, 
Technical University of Munich, Ismaninger Strasse 22, 81675, Munich, Germany.

PURPOSE: The objective of the current study was to assess whether and how 
preoperative risk group distribution and pathological outcomes have changed in 
men treated with radical prostatectomy (RP) over the past 25 years.
METHODS: 11,071 patients from a large contemporary registry-based nationwide 
cohort with RP as primary treatment between 1995 and 2019 were included. 
Preoperative risk stratification, postoperative outcomes, and 10 years 
other-cause mortality (OCM) were analyzed.
RESULTS: After 2005, the proportion of low-risk prostate cancer (PCa) decreased 
from 39.6% to 25.5% in 2010 and decreased further to 15.5% in 2015, and 9.4% in 
2019 (p < 0.001). The proportion of high-risk cases increased from 13.1% in 2005 
to 23.1% in 2010 and 36.7% in 2015, and 40.4% in 2019 (p < 0.001). After 2005, 
the proportion of cases with favorable localized PCa decreased from 37.3% to 
24.9% in 2010 and decreased further to 13.9% in 2015, and 1.6% in 2019 
(p < 0.001). The overall 10 years OCM was 7.7%.
CONCLUSION: The current analysis documents a clear shift in utilization of RP 
toward higher-risk PCa in men with long life expectancy. Patients with low-risk 
PCa or favorable localized PCa are rarely operated. This suggests a shift in 
applying surgery only to patients who may really benefit from RP and the 
long-standing discussion of overtreatment might become outdated.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00345-023-04418-8
PMCID: PMC10241676
PMID: 37195312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


247. Clin Exp Nephrol. 2023 Sep;27(9):728-736. doi: 10.1007/s10157-023-02357-7.
Epub  2023 May 17.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of lifestyle interventions for preventing kidney 
disease in patients with type 2 diabetes.

Suzuki Y(1), Hoshi K(2)(3), Shiroiwa T(4), Fukuda T(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Outcomes Research and Economic Evaluation for Health, National 
Institute of Public Health, 2-3-6 Minami, Wako, Saitama, 351-0197, Japan. 
suzuki.y.ut@niph.go.jp.
(2)Center for Health Informatics Policy, National Institute of Public Health, 
Saitama, Japan.
(3)Department of Hygiene, Kitasato University School of Medicine, Kanagawa, 
Japan.
(4)Center for Outcomes Research and Economic Evaluation for Health, National 
Institute of Public Health, 2-3-6 Minami, Wako, Saitama, 351-0197, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Lifestyle interventions in patients with type-2 diabetes contribute 
to reducing the incidence of chronic kidney disease. The cost-effectiveness of 
lifestyle interventions to prevent kidney disease in patients with type-2 
diabetes remains undetermined. We aimed to develop a Markov model from a 
Japanese healthcare payer's perspective focusing on the development of kidney 
disease in patients with type-2 diabetes and examine the cost-effectiveness of 
lifestyle interventions.
METHODS: To develop the model, the parameters, including lifestyle intervention 
effect, were derived from results of the Look AHEAD trial and previously 
published literature. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) were 
calculated from the difference in cost and quality-adjusted life years (QALY) 
between lifestyle intervention and diabetes support education groups. We 
estimated lifetime costs and effectiveness assuming patient's life span to be 
100 years. Costs and effectiveness were discounted by 2% annually.
RESULTS: ICER for lifestyle intervention compared to diabetes support education 
was JPY 1,510,838 (USD 13,031) per QALY. Cost-effectiveness acceptability curve 
showed that the probability that lifestyle intervention is cost-effective at the 
threshold of JPY 5,000,000 (USD 43,084) per QALY gained, compared to diabetes 
support education, is 93.6%.
CONCLUSIONS: Using a newly-developed Markov model, we illustrated that lifestyle 
interventions for preventing kidney disease in patients with diabetes would be 
more cost-effective from a Japanese healthcare payer's perspective compared to 
diabetes support education. The model parameters in the Markov model must be 
updated to adapt to the Japanese setting.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japanese Society of 
Nephrology.

DOI: 10.1007/s10157-023-02357-7
PMID: 37195388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Curr Nutr Rep. 2023 Sep;12(3):376-382. doi: 10.1007/s13668-023-00474-z. Epub
 2023 May 17.

Age-Related Changes in Circadian Rhythm and Association with Nutrition.

Akpınar Ş(1), Tek NA(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Science, Department of Nutrition and Dietetic, Gazi 
University, Bişkek Main St. 6. St No: 2, 06490, Ankara, Emek, Turkey. 
serifeakpinar@gazi.edu.tr.
(2)Faculty of Health Science, Department of Nutrition and Dietetic, Gazi 
University, Bişkek Main St. 6. St No: 2, 06490, Ankara, Emek, Turkey.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Considering the increase in life expectancy, there is a 
time-related decline in biological functions. Age-related changes are also 
observed in the circadian clock which directly leads to appropriate rhythms in 
the endocrine and metabolic pathways required for organism homeostasis. 
Circadian rhythms are affected by the sleep/wake cycle, environmental changes, 
and nutrition. The aim of this review is to show the relationship between 
age-related changes in circadian rhythms of physiological and molecular 
processes and nutritional differences in the elderly.
RECENT FINDINGS: Nutrition is an environmental factor that is particularly 
effective on peripheral clocks. Age-related physiological changes have an impact 
on nutrient intake and circadian processes. Considering the known effects of 
amino acid and energy intakes on peripheral and circadian clocks, it is thought 
that the change in circadian clocks in aging may occur due to anorexia due to 
physiological changes.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s13668-023-00474-z
PMID: 37195400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. JAMA. 2023 Jun 6;329(21):1818. doi: 10.1001/jama.2023.8664.

Screening for 3 Genetic Conditions Is Cost-effective in Younger People.

Harris E.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2023.8664
PMID: 37195698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. JMIR Public Health Surveill. 2023 May 17;9:e46634. doi: 10.2196/46634.

Development of a Prediction Model for Healthy Life Years Without Activity 
Limitation: National Cross-sectional Study.

Nishi M(1)(2), Nagamitsu R(2)(3), Matoba S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Graduate School of Medical Science, 
Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Department of Health and Welfare, Kyoto Prefectural Government, Kyoto, Japan.
(3)Department of Epidemiology for Community Health and Medicine, Graduate School 
of Medical Science, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.

BACKGROUND: In some countries, including Japan-the leading country in terms of 
longevity, life expectancy has been increasing; meanwhile, healthy life years 
have not kept pace, necessitating an effective health policy to narrow the gap.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to develop a prediction model for healthy 
life years without activity limitations and deploy the model in a health policy 
to prolong healthy life years.
METHODS: The Comprehensive Survey of Living Conditions, a cross-sectional 
national survey of Japan, was conducted by the Japanese Ministry of Health, 
Labour and Welfare in 2013, 2016, and 2019. The data from 1,537,773 responders 
were used for modelling using machine learning. All participants were randomly 
split into training (n=1,383,995, 90%,) and test (n=153,778, 10%) subsets. 
Extreme gradient boosting classifier was implemented. Activity limitations were 
set as the target. Age, sex, and 40 types of diseases or injuries were included 
as features. Healthy life years without activity limitations were calculated by 
incorporating the predicted prevalence rate of activity limitations in a life 
table. For the wide utility of the model in individuals, we developed an 
application tool for the model.
RESULTS: In the groups without (n=1,329,901) and with (n=207,872) activity 
limitations, the median age was 47 (IQR 30-64) and 69 (IQR 54-80) years, 
respectively (P<.001); female sex comprised 51.3% (n=681,794) in the group 
without activity limitations and 56.9% (n=118,339) in the group with activity 
limitations (P<.001). A total of 42 features were included in the feature set. 
Age had the highest impact on model accuracy, followed by depression or other 
mental diseases; back pain; bone fracture; other neurological disorders, pain, 
or paralysis; stroke, cerebral hemorrhage, or infarction; arthritis; Parkinson 
disease; dementia; and other injuries or burns. The model exhibited high 
performance with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 
0.846 (95% CI 0.842-0.849) with exact calibration for the average probability 
and fraction of positives. The prediction results were consistent with the 
observed values of healthy life years for both sexes in each year (range of 
difference between predictive and observed values: -0.89 to 0.16 in male and 
0.61 to 1.23 in female respondents). We applied the prediction model to a 
regional health policy to prolong healthy life years by adjusting the 
representative predictors to a target prevalence rate. Additionally, we 
presented the health condition without activity limitations index, followed by 
the application development for individual health promotion.
CONCLUSIONS: The prediction model will enable national or regional governments 
to establish an effective health promotion policy for risk prevention at the 
population and individual levels to prolong healthy life years. Further 
investigation is needed to validate the model's adaptability to various 
ethnicities and, in particular, to countries where the population exhibits a 
short life span.

©Masahiro Nishi, Reo Nagamitsu, Satoaki Matoba. Originally published in JMIR 
Public Health and Surveillance (https://publichealth.jmir.org), 17.05.2023.

DOI: 10.2196/46634
PMCID: PMC10233441
PMID: 37195737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


251. PLoS One. 2023 May 17;18(5):e0285850. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0285850. 
eCollection 2023.

Phase II, double blind, placebo controlled, multi-site study to evaluate the 
safety, feasibility and desirability of conducting a phase III study of 
anamorelin for anorexia in people with small cell lung cancer: A study protocol 
(LUANA trial).

Sousa MS(1)(2), Martin P(3)(4), Johnson MJ(5), Lind M(5), Maddocks M(6), Bullock 
A(5), Agar M(1)(7)(8), Chang S(1), Kochovska S(1)(9), Kinchin I(1)(10), Morgan 
D(11), Fazekas B(1), Razmovski-Naumovski V(1)(8), Lee JT(1)(12)(13), Itchins 
M(14)(15), Bray V(7), Currow DC(1)(9).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health, Improving Palliative, Aged and Chronic Care through 
Clinical Research and Translation (IMPACCT), University of Technology Sydney, 
Ultimo, New South Wales, Australia.
(2)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Western Sydney University, Penrith, New 
South Wales, Australia.
(3)School of Medicine, Deakin University, Geelong, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Palliative Care, Barwon Health, Geelong, Victoria, Australia.
(5)Wolfson Palliative Care Research Centre, Hull York Medical School, University 
of Hull, Hull, England.
(6)Cicely Saunders Institute of Palliative Care, Policy and Rehabilitation, 
King's College London, Denmark Hill, London, United Kingdom.
(7)Department of Medical Oncology, Liverpool Hospital, Liverpool, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(8)South West Sydney Clinical Campuses, University of New South Wales Sydney, 
Kensington, Australia.
(9)Faculty of Science, Medicine and Health, University of Wollongong, 
Wollongong, New South Wales, Australia.
(10)Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(11)RePaDD, Flinders University, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(12)Concord Centre for Palliative Care, Concord Repatriation General Hospital, 
Concord West, New South Wales, Australia.
(13)Concord Clinical school, University of Sydney, Camperdown, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(14)Royal North Shore Hospital, St Leonards, New South Wales, Australia.
(15)Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of Sydney, Camperdown, New South 
Wales, Australia.

Anorexia is experienced by most people with lung cancer during the course of 
their disease and treatment. Anorexia reduces response to chemotherapy and the 
ability of patients to cope with, and complete their treatment leading to 
greater morbidity, poorer prognosis and outcomes. Despite the significant 
importance of cancer-related anorexia, current therapies are limited, have 
marginal benefits and unwarranted side effects. In this multi-site, randomised, 
double blind, placebo controlled, phase II trial, participants will be randomly 
assigned (1:1) to receive once-daily oral dosing of 100mg of anamorelin HCl or 
matched placebo for 12 weeks. Participants can then opt into an extension phase 
to receive blinded intervention for another 12 weeks (weeks 13-24) at the same 
dose and frequency. Adults (≥18 years) with small cell lung cancer (SCLC); newly 
diagnosed with planned systemic therapy OR with first recurrence of disease 
following a documented disease-free interval ≥6 months, AND with anorexia (i.e., 
≤ 37 points on the 12-item Functional Assessment of Anorexia Cachexia Treatment 
(FAACT A/CS) scale) will be invited to participate. Primary outcomes are safety, 
desirability and feasibility outcomes related to participant recruitment, 
adherence to interventions, and completion of study tools to inform the design 
of a robust Phase III effectiveness trial. Secondary outcomes are the effects of 
study interventions on body weight and composition, functional status, 
nutritional intake, biochemistry, fatigue, harms, survival and quality of life. 
Primary and secondary efficacy analysis will be conducted at 12 weeks. 
Additional exploratory efficacy and safety analyses will also be conducted at 24 
weeks to collect data over longer treatment duration. The feasibility of 
economic evaluations in Phase III trial will be assessed, including the 
indicative costs and benefits of anamorelin for SCLC to the healthcare system 
and society, the choice of methods for data collection and the future evaluation 
design. Trial registration. The trial has been registered with the Australian 
New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry [ACTRN12622000129785] and approved by the 
South Western Sydney Local Health District Human Research Ethics Committee 
[2021/ETH11339]. https://clin.larvol.com/trial-detail/ACTRN12622000129785.

Copyright: © 2023 Sousa et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0285850
PMCID: PMC10191352
PMID: 37195996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Prof David Currow is a paid consultant to 
Helsinn and a member of their Advisory Board. This does not alter our adherence 
to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials. All the other Authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


252. PLoS One. 2023 May 17;18(5):e0284468. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0284468. 
eCollection 2023.

Effect of environmental NGOs on human health in China: An empirical analysis.

Wang W(1)(2), Hafeez M(3), Guo Z(4), Zia MY(3), Salahodjaev R(5), Ali I(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Shantou University/Institute of Local Government 
Development, Shantou University, Shan-Tou, 515063, P.R. China.
(2)Institute of Local Government Development, Shan-Tou, 515063, People's 
Republic of China.
(3)Institute of Business Management Sciences, University of Agriculture, 
Faisalabad, Pakistan.
(4)Center for Disease Control and prevention, Bao'an District, Shenzhen City, 
Guangdong Province, China.
(5)Department of Mathematical Methods in Economics, Tashkent State University of 
Economics, Tashkent, Uzbekistan.
(6)Department of Agronomy, University of Agriculture, Faisalabad, Pakistan.

The emergence of environmental nongovernmental organizations (ENGOs) has proved 
beneficial in improving environmental quality and related health issues. 
Therefore, this study attempts to investigate the impact of ENGO on human health 
in China from 1995 to 2020. To investigate the relationship between the 
variables, we have employed the ARDL model. The ARDL model results demonstrate 
that the long-run impact of ENGO is negative on infant mortality and death rate, 
meaning that an increase in the proportion of ENGOs in China considerably 
decreases infant mortality and death rate. On the other hand, ENGOs have a 
favorable influence on life expectancy in China, demonstrating ENGOs' supporting 
role in raising birth life expectancy. In the short run, estimates of ENGOs have 
no substantial influence on newborn mortality and death rates in China, whereas 
ENGOs have a positive and significant impact on life expectancy. These results 
imply that ENGOs help improves people's health status in China, which is also 
supported by the rise in GDP, technology, and health expenditures. The causal 
analysis confirms the bi-directional causal link between ENGO and IMR and ENGO 
and LE, while the unidirectional causal link runs from ENGO to DR. The results 
of the study provide insights into the impact of environmental NGOs on human 
health in China and may help guide policies aimed at improving public health 
outcomes through environmental protection efforts.

Copyright: © 2023 Wang et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0284468
PMCID: PMC10191309
PMID: 37196025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


253. Cureus. 2023 Apr 13;15(4):e37545. doi: 10.7759/cureus.37545. eCollection
2023  Apr.

Clinical Risk Factors for Death in Patients With Empyema and Active Malignancy.

Salahuddin M(1), Ost D(2), Hwang H(3), Jimenez C(2), Saltijeral S(4), Eapen 
G(2), Casal R(2), Sabath B(2), Lin J(2), Cerrillos E(5), Nevárez Tinoco T(5), 
Grosu H(2).

Author information:
(1)Pulmonology and Critical Care, Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi, PAK.
(2)Pulmonary Medicine, Monroe Dunaway (MD) Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, USA.
(3)Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Monroe Dunaway (MD) Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, USA.
(4)Obstetrics and Gynecology, Monroe Dunaway (MD) Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, USA.
(5)Internal Medicine, Instituto Tecnologico y de Estudios Superiores de 
Monterrey, Monterrey, MEX.

Background Pleural infection is a common clinical problem resulting in prolonged 
hospitalization and increased mortality. In patients with active malignancy, 
management decisions are based on the need for further immunosuppressive 
therapies, the ability to tolerate surgery, and consideration of the limited 
life expectancy. Identifying patients at risk for death or poor outcomes is very 
important as it will guide care. Study design and methods This is a 
retrospective cohort study of all patients with active malignancy and empyema. 
The primary outcome was time to death from empyema at three months. The 
secondary outcome was surgery at 30 days. Standard Cox regression model and 
cause-specific hazard regression model were used to analyze the data. Results A 
total of 202 patients with active malignancy and empyema were included. The 
overall mortality rate at three months was 32.7%. On multivariable analysis, 
female gender and higher urea were associated with an increased risk of death 
from empyema at three months. The area under the curve (AUC) of the model was 
0.70. The risk factors for surgery at 30 days included the presence of frank pus 
and postsurgical empyema. The AUC of the model was 0.76. Interpretation Patients 
with active malignancy and empyema have a high probability of death. In our 
model, the risk factors for death from empyema included female gender and higher 
urea.

Copyright © 2023, Salahuddin et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.37545
PMCID: PMC10184713
PMID: 37197128

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


254. Heliyon. 2023 May;9(5):e16197. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e16197. Epub 2023
May  12.

Factors that impacted mobile-payment adoption in China during the COVID-19 
pandemic.

Abrahim Sleiman KA(1), Juanli L(2), Lei HZ(2), Rong W(3), Yubo W(2), Li S(1), 
Cheng J(4), Amin F(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Economics and Management, Yan'an University, Yan'an City, 716000, 
China.
(2)International Business School, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an, 710062, 
China.
(3)School of Computer Science and Engineering, Beihang University, Beijing, 
100191, China.
(4)Affiliated Hospital, Yan'an University, Yan'an City, 716000, China.
(5)National Defence University, Sector E-9, Islamabad, Pakistan.

The Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology (UTAUT) is a potential 
paradigm for explaining technology adoption and can be applied to a wide range 
of scenarios. During the COVID-19 (C-19) outbreak in China, mobile-payment 
platforms (Mpayment) were used extensively in everyday life because they allowed 
people to avoid direct and indirect connections during transactions, adhere to 
social-distancing guidelines, and support social-economic stabilization. By 
exploring the technological and psychological variables that influenced user 
Mpayment-adoption intentions during the C-19 pandemic, this study broadens the 
literature on technology adoption in emergency circumstances and expands the 
UTAUT. A total of 593 complete samples were collected online, with SPSS used for 
data analysis. The empirical findings reveal that performance expectancy, trust, 
perceived security, and social influence all had a significant influence on 
Mpayment acceptance during the C-19 outbreak, with social distancing having the 
greatest impact, followed by fear of C-19. Interestingly, perceived-effort 
expectancy had a negative influence on payment acceptance. These findings 
suggest that future studies should apply the expanded model to different 
countries and areas to investigate the impact of the C-19 pandemic on Mpayment 
acceptance.

© 2023 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e16197
PMCID: PMC10176892
PMID: 37197149

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper


255. Digit Health. 2023 May 11;9:20552076231174786. doi:
10.1177/20552076231174786.  eCollection 2023 Jan-Dec.

Neurodata Tracker: Software for computational assessment of hand motor skills 
based on optical motion capture in a virtual environment.

López D(1), Casado-Fernández L(1), Fernández F(2), Fuentes B(1), Larraga-García 
B(2), Rodríguez-Pardo J(1), Hernández D(3), Alonso E(1), Díez-Tejedor E(1), 
Gutiérrez Á(2), Alonso de Leciñana M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Stroke Centre, Hospital La Paz Institute for 
Health Research - IdiPAZ (La Paz University Hospital, Universidad Autónoma de 
Madrid), Madrid, Spain.
(2)ETSI Telecomunicación, Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Rehabilitation, Hospital La Paz Institute for Health Research - 
IdiPAZ (La Paz University Hospital, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid), Madrid, 
Spain.

OBJECTIVES: Deficits affecting hand motor skills negatively impact the quality 
of life of patients. The NeuroData Tracker platform has been developed for the 
objective and precise evaluation of hand motor deficits. We describe the design 
and development of the platform and analyse the technological feasibility and 
usability in a relevant clinical setting.
METHODS: A software application was developed in Unity (C#) to obtain kinematic 
data from hand movement tracking by a portable device with two cameras and three 
infrared sensors (leap motion®). Four exercises were implemented: (a) wrist 
flexion-extension (b) finger-grip opening-closing (c) finger spread (d) fist 
opening-closing. The most representative kinematic parameters were selected for 
each exercise. A script in Python was integrated in the platform to transform 
real-time kinematic data into relevant information for the clinician. The 
application was tested in a pilot study comparing the data provided by the tool 
from ten healthy subjects without any motor impairment and ten patients 
diagnosed with a stroke with mild to moderate hand motor deficit.
RESULTS: The NeuroData Tracker allowed the parameterization of kinematics of 
hand movement and the issuance of a report with the results. The comparison of 
the data obtained suggests the feasibility of the tool for detecting differences 
between patients and healthy subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: This new platform based on optical motion capturing provides 
objective measurement of hand movement allowing quantification of motor 
deficits. These findings require further validation of the tool in larger trials 
to verify its usefulness in the clinical setting.

© The Author(s) 2023.

DOI: 10.1177/20552076231174786
PMCID: PMC10184203
PMID: 37197411

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


256. BMJ Open. 2023 May 17;13(5):e070693. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-070693.

Cohort profile: a longitudinal study of HIV infection in the central nervous 
system with focus on cerebrospinal fluid - the Gothenburg HIV CSF Study Cohort.

Hagberg L(1)(2), Gisslén M(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Institute of Biomedicine, University of 
Gothenburg Sahlgrenska Academy, Gothenburg, Sweden lars.hagberg@gu.se.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, Region Västra Götaland, Sahlgrenska 
University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, Institute of Biomedicine, University of 
Gothenburg Sahlgrenska Academy, Gothenburg, Sweden.

PURPOSE: In order to enable long-term follow-up of the natural course of HIV 
infection in the central nervous system, a longitudinal cohort study with 
repeated cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analyses at intervals over time was initiated 
in 1985. When antiretrovirals against HIV were introduced in the late 1980s, 
short-term and long-term effects of various antiretroviral treatment (ART) 
regimens were added to the study.
PARTICIPANTS: All adult people living with HIV (PLWH) who were diagnosed at or 
referred to the Department of Infectious Diseases, Sahlgrenska University 
Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden were asked to participate in the Gothenburg HIV CSF 
Study Cohort. PLWH with neurological symptoms or other clinical symptoms of HIV, 
as well as those with no symptoms of HIV infection, were included. Most 
participants were asymptomatic, which distinguishes this cohort from most other 
international HIV CSF studies. In addition, HIV-negative controls were 
recruited. These included people on HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis who served as 
lifestyle-matched controls to HIV-infected men who have sex with men. Since 
lumbar puncture (LP) is an invasive procedure, some PLHW only consented to 
participate in one examination. Furthermore, at the beginning of the study, 
several participants were lost to follow-up having died from AIDS. Of 662 PLWH 
where an initial LP was done, 415 agreed to continue with follow-up. Among the 
415, 56 only gave permission to be followed with LP for less than 1 year, mainly 
to analyse the short-term effect of ART. The remaining 359 PLWH were followed up 
with repeated LP for periods ranging from >1 to 30 years. This group was defined 
as the 'longitudinal cohort'. So far, on 7 April 2022, 2650 LP and samplings of 
paired CSF/blood had been performed, providing a unique biobank.
FINDINGS TO DATE: A general finding during the 37-year study period was that HIV 
infection in the central nervous system, as mirrored by CSF findings, appears 
early in the infectious course of the disease and progresses slowly in the vast 
majority of untreated PLWH. Combination ART has been highly effective in 
reducing CSF viral counts, inflammation and markers of neural damage. Minor CSF 
signs of long-term sequels or residual inflammatory activity and CSF escape 
(viral CSF blips) have been observed during follow-up. The future course of 
these changes and their clinical impact require further studies.
FUTURE PLANS: PLWH today have a life expectancy close to that of non-infected 
people. Therefore, our cohort provides a unique opportunity to study the 
long-term effects of HIV infection in the central nervous system and the impact 
of ART and is an ongoing study.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-070693
PMCID: PMC10193099
PMID: 37197824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: LH has no competing 
interest. MG has received research grants from Gilead Sciences and 
Janssen-Cilag, and honoraria as a speaker and/or scientific advisor from Amgen, 
AstraZeneca, Biogen, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Gilead Sciences, 
GlaxoSmithKline/ViiV, Janssen-Cilag, MSD, Novocure, Novo Nordic, Pfizer and 
Sanofi.


257. Neurology. 2023 Jul 11;101(2):e137-e150. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000207387.
Epub  2023 May 17.

Global Burden, Risk Factor Analysis, and Prediction Study of Ischemic Stroke, 
1990-2030.

Fan J(1), Li X(2), Yu X(1), Liu Z(1), Jiang Y(1), Fang Y(1), Zong M(1), Suo 
C(2), Man Q(2), Xiong L(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Clinical Laboratory (J.F., X.Y., M.Z., Q.M.), 
Department of Thyroid, Breast and Vascular Surgery (X.L.), Department of 
Neurovascular Disease (Y.F.), and Department of Anesthesiology and Perioperative 
Medicine (L.X.), Shanghai Fourth People's Hospital Affiliated to Tongji 
University School of Medicine; State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering and 
Collaborative Innovation Center for Genetics and Development, School of Life 
Sciences (Z.L., Y.J.), Taizhou Institute of Health Sciences (Z.L., Y.J., C.S.), 
Human Phenome Institute (Z.L., Y.J.), Department of Epidemiology and Key 
Laboratory of Public Health Safety of Ministry of Education, School of Public 
Health (C.S.), and Shanghai Institute of Infectious Disease and Biosecurity 
(C.S.), Fudan University; Translational Research Institute of Brain and 
Brain-Like Intelligence (L.X.); and Shanghai Key Laboratory of Anesthesiology 
and Brain Functional Modulation (L.X.), China.
(2)From the Department of Clinical Laboratory (J.F., X.Y., M.Z., Q.M.), 
Department of Thyroid, Breast and Vascular Surgery (X.L.), Department of 
Neurovascular Disease (Y.F.), and Department of Anesthesiology and Perioperative 
Medicine (L.X.), Shanghai Fourth People's Hospital Affiliated to Tongji 
University School of Medicine; State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering and 
Collaborative Innovation Center for Genetics and Development, School of Life 
Sciences (Z.L., Y.J.), Taizhou Institute of Health Sciences (Z.L., Y.J., C.S.), 
Human Phenome Institute (Z.L., Y.J.), Department of Epidemiology and Key 
Laboratory of Public Health Safety of Ministry of Education, School of Public 
Health (C.S.), and Shanghai Institute of Infectious Disease and Biosecurity 
(C.S.), Fudan University; Translational Research Institute of Brain and 
Brain-Like Intelligence (L.X.); and Shanghai Key Laboratory of Anesthesiology 
and Brain Functional Modulation (L.X.), China. lizexiong@tongji.edu.cn 
manqiuhong307@163.com suochen@fudan.edu.cn.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2023 Jul 11;101(2):55-56.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Ischemic stroke (IS), 1 of the 2 main subtypes of 
stroke, occurs because of brain ischemia caused by thrombosis of a cerebral 
blood vessel. IS is one of the most important neurovascular causes of death and 
disability. It is affected by many risk factors, such as smoking and a high body 
mass index (BMI), which are also critical in the preventive control of other 
cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. However, there are still few 
systematic analyses of the current and predicted disease burden and the 
attributable risk factors of IS.
METHODS: Based on the Global Burden of Disease 2019 database, we used 
age-standardized mortality rate and disability-adjusted life year to 
systematically present the geographical distribution and trends of IS disease 
burden worldwide from 1990 to 2019 by calculating the estimated annual 
percentage change and to analyze and predict the death number of IS accounted by 
7 major risk factors for 2020-2030.
RESULTS: Between 1990 and 2019, the global number of IS deaths increased from 
2.04 million to 3.29 million and is expected to increase further to 4.90 million 
by 2030. The downward trend was more pronounced in women, young people, and high 
sociodemographic index (SDI) regions. At the same time, a study of attributable 
risk factors of IS found that 2 behavioral factors, smoking and diet in high 
sodium, and 5 metabolic factors, including high systolic blood pressure, high 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, kidney dysfunction, high fasting plasma 
glucose, and a high BMI, are major contributors to the increased disease burden 
of IS now and in the future.
DISCUSSION: Our study provides the first comprehensive summary for the past 30 
years and the prediction of the global burden of IS and its attributable risk 
factors until 2030, providing detailed statistics for decision-making on the 
prevention and control of IS globally. An inadequate control of the 7 risk 
factors would lead to an increased disease burden of IS in young people, 
especially in low SDI regions. Our study identifies high-risk populations and 
helps public health professionals develop targeted preventive strategies to 
reduce the global disease burden of IS.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on 
behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000207387
PMCID: PMC10351546
PMID: 37197995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no disclosures relevant to 
the manuscript. Go to Neurology.org/N for full disclosures.


258. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2023 Aug;37(4):751-760. doi: 
10.1016/j.hoc.2023.04.001. Epub 2023 May 16.

Novel Agents in Waldenström Macroglobulinemia.

Sarosiek S(1), Castillo JJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Bing Center for Waldenström Macroglobulinemia, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 
Boston, MA, USA; Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 
USA. Electronic address: Shayna_Sarosiek@DFCI.HARVARD.EDU.
(2)Bing Center for Waldenström Macroglobulinemia, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 
Boston, MA, USA; Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 
USA.

Owing to the indolent nature of Waldenström macroglobulinemia, most patients 
experience a prolonged life expectancy, although many lines of therapy will 
likely be required to maintain disease control. Despite the currently available 
therapies, most patients will develop intolerance or resistance to multiple 
treatments. Therefore, new therapeutic options are being developed with a focus 
on targeted agents, such as novel Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitors and 
BTK degraders, as well as C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4, mucosa-associated 
lymphoid tissue translocation protein 1, and interleukin-1 receptor-associated 
kinase 4.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hoc.2023.04.001
PMID: 37198054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. J Visc Surg. 2023 Jun;160(3S):S130-S133. doi:
10.1016/j.jviscsurg.2023.04.014.  Epub 2023 May 15.

Transoral endoscopic thyroidectomy vestibular approach (TOETVA). Recommendations 
of the AFCE (Francophone Association of Endocrine Surgery) with the SFE (French 
Society of Endocrinology) and the SFMN (French Society of Nuclear Medicine).

Chereau N(1), Paladino NC(2), Nomine Criqui C(3), Tresallet C(4), Deroide G(5), 
Caiazzo R(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of General, Visceral and Endocrine Surgery, GH Pitié-Salpêtrière, 
AP-HP, Sorbonne University, 47-83, boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75013 Paris, France. 
Electronic address: nathalie.chereau@aphp.fr.
(2)Department of General, Endocrine and Metabolic Surgery, CHU La Conception, 
AP-HM, Aix Marseille University, Marseille, France.
(3)Department of Visceral, Metabolic and Oncological Surgery, University of 
Lorraine, CHRU Nancy, Brabois Hospital, Vandœuvre-lès-Nancy, France.
(4)Department of Digestive, Bariatric and Endocrine Surgery, HU Paris 
Seine-Saint-Denis, AP-HP, Avicenne Hospital, Bobigny, France.
(5)Visceral Surgery Department, Hôpital Franco-Britannique-Fondation 
Cognacq-Jay, Levallois-Perret, France.
(6)General and Endocrine Surgery Department, University Hospital Center of 
Lille, Lille, France.

Transoral endoscopic thyroidectomy vestibular approach (TOETVA) can be proposed 
for selected patients with a thyroid volume<45mL and/or a nodule<4cm (for 
Bethesda category II, III or IV lesions), or<2cm (for Bethesda category V or VI 
lesions), with no suspicion of lateral nodal involvement or mediastinal 
extension who wish to avoid a cervical scar. Such patients should have 
satisfactory dental status, have been educated on the specific risks of the 
transoral route and the need for perioperative oral care, and also fully 
informed regarding the lack of proof of TOETVA effectiveness in terms of quality 
of life and patient satisfaction. The patient should be made aware of the 
possibility of postoperative pain in the neck cervical and chin, which may 
persist for several days to a few weeks after the intervention. Transoral 
endoscopic thyroidectomy should be performed in centers with expertise in 
thyroid surgery.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviscsurg.2023.04.014
PMID: 37198067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. HPB (Oxford). 2023 Aug;25(8):972-979. doi: 10.1016/j.hpb.2023.04.021. Epub
2023  May 5.

Laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy is more cost-effective than open resection: 
results from a Swedish randomized controlled trial.

Johansen K(1), Lindhoff Larsson A(1), Lundgren L(1), Gasslander T(1), 
Hjalmarsson C(2), Sandström P(1), Lyth J(3), Henriksson M(3), Björnsson B(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery in Linköping and Department of Biomedical and Clinical 
Sciences, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden.
(2)Department of Surgery, Hospital of Halland, Halland, Sweden.
(3)Centre for Medical Technology Assessment, Department of Health, Medicine and 
Caring Sciences, Linköping University, Sweden.
(4)Department of Surgery in Linköping and Department of Biomedical and Clinical 
Sciences, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden. Electronic address: 
bergthor.bjornsson@liu.se.

BACKGROUND: Laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy is being implemented worldwide. 
The aim of this study was to perform a cost-effectiveness analysis from a health 
care perspective.
METHODS: This cost-effectiveness analysis was based on the randomized controlled 
trial LAPOP, where 60 patients were randomized to open or laparoscopic distal 
pancreatectomy. For the follow-up of two years, resource use from a health care 
perspective was recorded, and health-related quality of life was assessed using 
the EQ-5D-5L. The per-patient mean cost and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
were compared using nonparametric bootstrapping.
RESULTS: Fifty-six patients were included in the analysis. The mean health care 
costs were lower, €3863 (95% CI: -€8020 to €385), for the laparoscopic group. 
Postoperative quality of life improved with laparoscopic resection and resulted 
in a gain in QALYs of 0.08 (95% CI: -0.09 to 0.25). The laparoscopic group had 
lower costs and improved QALYs in 79% of bootstrap samples. With a cost-per-QALY 
threshold of €50 000, 95.4% of the bootstrap samples were in favour of 
laparoscopic resection.
CONCLUSION: Laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy is associated with numerically 
lower health care costs and improvements in QALYs compared with the open 
approach. The results support the ongoing transition from open to laparoscopic 
distal pancreatectomies.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hpb.2023.04.021
PMID: 37198071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. J Cancer Surviv. 2023 May 18. doi: 10.1007/s11764-023-01395-0. Online ahead
of  print.

Evaluating the effect of upper-body morbidity on quality of life following 
primary breast cancer treatment: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Macdonald ER(1), Amorim NML(2), Hagstrom AD(3), Markovic K(3), Simar D(3), Ward 
RE(3), Clifford BK(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, Department of Exercise Physiology, UNSW, Sydney, 
Sydney, Australia. e.macdonald@unsw.edu.au.
(2)Centre for Inflammation, Faculty of Science, School of Life Sciences, 
Centenary Institute and University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(3)School of Health Sciences, Department of Exercise Physiology, UNSW, Sydney, 
Sydney, Australia.
(4)School of Nursing, Midwifery and Social Work, The University of Queensland 
(UQ), Brisbane, Australia.

PURPOSE: Improvements in breast cancer management continue to increase survival 
and life expectancy after treatment. Yet the adverse effects of treatment may 
persist long term, threatening physical, psychological, and social wellbeing, 
leading to impaired quality of life (QOL). Upper-body morbidity (UBM) such as 
pain, lymphoedema, restricted shoulder range of motion (ROM), and impaired 
function are widely reported after breast cancer treatment, but evidence 
demonstrating its impact on QOL is inconsistent. Therefore, the aim of the study 
was to conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis evaluating the effect of 
UBM on QOL following primary breast cancer treatment.
METHODS: The study was prospectively registered on PROSPERO (CRD42020203445). 
CINAHL, Embase, Emcare, PsycInfo, PubMed/Medline, and SPORTDiscus databases were 
searched for studies reporting QOL in individuals with and without UBM following 
primary breast cancer treatment. Primary analysis determined the standardised 
mean difference (SMD) in physical, psychological, and social wellbeing scores 
between UBM + /UBM - groups. Secondary analyses identified differences in QOL 
scores between groups, according to questionnaire.
RESULTS: Fifty-eight studies were included, with 39 conducive to meta-analysis. 
Types of UBM included pain, lymphoedema, restricted shoulder ROM, impaired 
upper-body function, and upper-body symptoms. UBM + groups reported poorer 
physical (SMD =  - 0.99; 95%CI =  - 1.26, - 0.71; p < 0.00001), psychological 
(SMD =  - 0.43; 95%CI =  - 0.60, - 0.27; p < 0.00001), and social wellbeing 
(SMD =  - 0.62; 95%CI =  - 0.83, - 0.40; p < 0.00001) than UBM - groups. 
Secondary analyses according to questionnaire showed that UBM + groups rated 
their QOL poorer or at equal to, UBM - groups across all domains.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings demonstrate the significant, negative impact of UBM on 
QOL, pervading physical, psychological, and social domains.
IMPLICATIONS FOR CANCER SURVIVORS: Efforts to assess and minimise the 
multidimensional impact of UBM are warranted to mitigate impaired QOL after 
breast cancer.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11764-023-01395-0
PMID: 37199900


262. Euro Surveill. 2023 May;28(20):2200532. doi: 
10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2023.28.20.2200532.

Associated deaths and disability-adjusted life-years caused by infections with 
antibiotic-resistant bacteria in Switzerland, 2010 to 2019.

Gasser M(1), Cassini A(2)(3), Lo Fo Wong D(4), Gelormini M(4), Nahrgang SA(4), 
Zingg W(5), Kronenberg AO(1).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Centre for Antibiotic Resistance (ANRESIS), Institute for Infectious 
Diseases, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(2)Infection Prevention and Control Unit, Infectious Diseases Service, Lausanne 
University Hospital, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Deputy Cantonal Doctor, Public Health Department, Canton of Vaud, Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(4)Control of Antimicrobial Resistance Programme, World Health Organization 
Regional Office for Europe, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(5)Division of Infectious Diseases and Hospital Epidemiology, University 
Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

BackgroundCassini et al. (2019) estimated that, in 2015, infections with 16 
different antibiotic-resistant bacteria resulted in ca 170 disability-adjusted 
life-years (DALYs) per 100,000 population in the European Union and European 
Economic area (EU/EEA). The corresponding estimate for Switzerland was about 
half of this (87.8 DALYs per 100,000 population) but still higher than that of 
several EU/EEA countries (e.g. neighbouring Austria (77.2)).AimIn this study, 
the burden caused by the same infections due to antibiotic-resistant bacteria 
('AMR burden') in Switzerland from 2010 to 2019 was estimated and the effect of 
the factors 'linguistic region' and 'hospital type' on this estimate was 
examined.MethodsNumber of infections, DALYs and deaths were estimated according 
to Cassini et al. (2019) whereas separate models were built for each linguistic 
region/hospital type combination.ResultsDALYs increased significantly from 3,995 
(95% uncertainty interval (UI): 3;327-4,805) in 2010 to 6,805 
(95% UI: 5,820-7,949) in 2019. Linguistic region and hospital type 
stratifications significantly affected the absolute values and the slope of the 
total AMR burden estimates. DALYs per population were higher in the Latin part 
of Switzerland (98 DALYs per 100,000 population; 95% UI: 83-115) compared with 
the German part (57 DALYs per 100,000 population; 95% UI: 49-66) and in 
university hospitals (165 DALYs per 100,000 hospitalisation days; 
95% UI: 140-194) compared with non-university hospitals (62 DALYs per 100,000 
hospitalisation days; 95% UI: 53-72).ConclusionsThe AMR burden estimate in 
Switzerland has increased significantly between 2010 and 2019. Considerable 
differences depending on the linguistic region and the hospital type were 
identified - a finding which affects the nationwide burden estimation.

DOI: 10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2023.28.20.2200532
PMCID: PMC10197493
PMID: 37199988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared.


263. JAMA Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2023 Jul 1;149(7):607-614. doi: 
10.1001/jamaoto.2023.0949.

Potential Clinical and Economic Outcomes of Over-the-Counter Hearing Aids in the 
US.

Borre ED(1)(2), Johri M(2), Dubno JR(3), Myers ER(2)(4), Emmett SD(5)(6), Pavon 
JM(7)(8), Francis HW(8), Ogbuoji O(2)(9)(10), Sanders Schmidler GD(1)(2)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health Sciences, Duke University School of Medicine, 
Durham, North Carolina.
(2)Duke-Margolis Center for Health Policy, Duke University, Durham, North 
Carolina.
