Medical University, Kaohsiung, 807, Taiwan.
(10)Department of Pediatrics, Kaohsiung Municipal Siaogang Hospital, Kaohsiung 
Medical University, Kaohsiung, 812, Taiwan.
(11)Faculty of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung, 807, Taiwan.
(12)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung 
Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, 807, 
Taiwan.

Exposure to ambient air pollution has been associated with increased rates of 
mortality and morbidity and a shorter life expectancy. Few studies have 
evaluated the associations between air pollution and change in calcaneus 
ultrasound T-score (∆T-score). Therefore, in this longitudinal study, we 
explored these associations in a large group of Taiwanese participants. We used 
data from the Taiwan Biobank database and Taiwan Air Quality Monitoring 
Database, which contains detailed daily data on air pollution. We identified 
27,033 participants in the Taiwan Biobank database who had both baseline and 
follow-up data. The median follow-up period was 4 years. The studied ambient air 
pollutants included particulates of 2.5 μm or less (PM2.5), particulates of 
10 μm or less (PM10), ozone (O3), carbon monoxide (CO), sulfur dioxide (SO2), 
nitric oxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), and nitrogen oxide (NOx). 
Multivariable analysis showed that PM2.5 (β, -0.003; 95% confidence interval 
(CI), -0.004 to -0.001; p < 0.001), PM10 (β, -0.005; 95% CI, -0.006 to -0.004, 
p < 0.001), O3 (β, -0.008; 95% CI, -0.011 to -0.004; p < 0.001), and SO2 (β, 
-0.036; 95% CI, -0.052 to -0.020; p < 0.001) were negatively associated with 
∆T-score, and that CO (β, 0.344; 95% CI, 0.254, 0.433; p < 0.001), NO (β, 0.011; 
95% CI, 0.008 to 0.015; p < 0.001), NO2 (β, 0.011; 95% CI, 0.008 to 0.014; 
p < 0.001), and NOx (β, 0.007; 95% CI, 0.005 to 0.009; p < 0.001) were 
positively significantly associated with ∆T-score. Furthermore, PM2.5 and SO2 
(β, -0.014; 95% CI, -0.016 to -0.013; p < 0.001) and PM10 and SO2 (β, -0.008; 
95% CI, -0.009 to -0.007; p < 0.001) had synergistic negative effects on 
∆T-score. In conclusion, we found that high PM2.5, PM10, O3, and SO2 were 
associated with a rapid decline in T-score, whereas high CO, NO, NO2, and NOx 
were associated with a slow decline in T-score. Furthermore, PM2.5 and SO2 and 
PM10 and SO2 had synergistic negative effects on ∆T-score, causing an 
acceleration in T-score decline. These findings may be helpful when developing 
policies on air pollution regulation.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-023-27368-5
PMID: 37178299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Childs Nerv Syst. 2023 Nov;39(11):3103-3109. doi:
10.1007/s00381-023-05985-2.  Epub 2023 May 13.

Global, regional, and national epidemiological trends in neural tube defects 
between 1990 and 2019: a summary.

Lu VM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine, Jackson Memorial Hospital, 1095 NW 14th Terrace, FL, Miami, USA. 
victor.lu@jhsmiami.org.

BACKGROUND: Neural tube defects (NTD), such as spina bifida, are surgically 
treatable and primarily preventable non-communicable diseases. How incidence, 
mortality and disability-adjusted life year (DALYs) rates of NTD have modulated 
over time is not well defined. Correspondingly, the aim of this study was to 
quantitively define the global, regional, and national epidemiological trends in 
these.
METHODS: A retrospective review of data from the Global Burden of Disease Study 
2019 Database was performed. Global, regional, and national outcomes for NTD 
were collected for incidence, mortality, and DALY rates and their 
age-standardized metrics analyzed. There were 7 regions at a regional level, and 
204 countries and territories at a national level.
RESULTS: Globally, the latest age-standardized rates of incidence, mortality, 
and DALYs of NTD were 2.1 per 100,000 population, 1.3 per 1000,000, and 117 per 
100,000 respectively. All rates demonstrated decreases in the last two decades 
to now. Regionally, sub-Saharan Africa and North America demonstrated the 
highest and lowest age-standardized rates of incidence (4.0 vs 0.5 per 100,000), 
mortality (3.0 vs 0.4 per 100,000), and DALYs (266 vs 33 per 100,000), 
respectively. Similar to global trends, all regions demonstrated decrease in 
these rates over the last two decades. Nationally, the highest age-standardized 
rates were reported in African countries, Central African Republic, with highest 
incidence rate (7.6 per 100,000), and Burkina Faso with highest mortality rate 
(5.8 per 100,000) and DALY rate (518 per 100,000). India was the country with 
the highest number of new NTD cases (22,000 per country) in the most recent year 
of study. Between 1990 and 2019, 182/204 (89%), 188/204 (92%), and 188/204 (92%) 
countries and territories demonstrated a decrease in age-standardized incidence, 
mortality, and DALY rates respectively, with the greatest decreases seen in 
Saudi Arabia for all statistics.
CONCLUSIONS: Between 1990 and 2019, overall trends in incidence, mortality, and 
DALY rates of NTD have been favorably downtrending globally. Regionally, these 
rates in the highest sub-Saharan Africa were 8 times greater compared to the 
lowest North America. Nationally, although the majority of countries showed 
decreases in these rates, a small number of countries demonstrated uptrending 
rates of NTD. Understanding the mechanics behind these trends will allow future 
public health endeavors for both prevention and neurosurgical treatment to be 
targeted appropriately.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00381-023-05985-2
PMID: 37178370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. J Epidemiol Glob Health. 2023 Jun;13(2):344-360. doi: 
10.1007/s44197-023-00109-0. Epub 2023 May 13.

Global, Regional, and National Trends in Incidence and Mortality of Primary 
Liver Cancer and Its Underlying Etiologies from 1990 to 2019: Results from the 
Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

Cao G(1), Liu J(1), Liu M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, No. 38 Xueyuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100191, China.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, No. 38 Xueyuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100191, China. 
liumin@bjmu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: Primary liver cancer is not only one of the most common causes of 
cancer deaths but also the second most common cause of premature death 
worldwide. Understanding the trends in incidence and mortality of primary liver 
cancer and its etiologies is crucial for development of effective prevention and 
mitigation strategies. This study aimed to quantify the trends in incidence and 
mortality of primary liver cancer and its etiologies at the global, regional and 
national levels using data from Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study.
METHOD: Annual incident cases, deaths, age-standardized incidence rates (ASIRs), 
and age-standardized mortality rates (ASMRs) of primary liver cancer and its 
etiologies, including hepatitis B, hepatitis C, alcohol use, nonalcoholic 
steatohepatitis, and other causes, between 1990 and 2019 were collected from GBD 
study 2019. Percentage changes in incident cases and deaths and estimated annual 
percentage changes (EAPCs) in ASIRs and ASMRs of primary liver cancer and its 
etiologies were calculated to quantify their temporal trends. Correlations of 
EAPC in ASIRs and ASMRs with socio-demographic index (SDI) and universal health 
coverage index (UHCI) in 2019 were separately evaluated by Pearson correlation 
analyses.
RESULTS: Globally, the incident cases and deaths of primary liver cancer 
increased by 43.11% from 373 393 in 1990 to 534 365 in 2019 and 32.68% from 365 
213 in 1990 to 484 584 in 2019, respectively. ASIR and ASMR of primary liver 
cancer decreased by an average of 2.23% (95% CI 1.83%, 2.63%) and 1.93% (95% CI 
1.55%, 2.31%) per year between 1990 and 2019 worldwide, respectively. ASIRs and 
ASMRs of primary liver cancer varied between regions, with an increasing trend 
in ASIR (EAPC = 0.91; 95% CI 0.47, 1.35) and a stable trend in ASMR 
(EAPC = 0.42, 95% CI - 0.01, 0.85) of primary liver cancer in high SDI region 
between 1990 and 2019. Nearly half (91/204) of the countries suffered an 
increasing trend in ASIR of primary liver cancer and more than one-third 
(71/204) of the countries suffered an increasing trend in ASIRs of primary liver 
cancer from all etiologies between 1990 and 2019 worldwide. Positive 
correlations of EAPC in ASIR and ASMR of primary liver cancer with SDI and UHCI 
were observed in nations with SDI ≥ 0.7 or UHCI ≥ 70.
CONCLUSION: Primary liver cancer remains a major public health concern globally, 
with an increasing trend in the numbers of incident cases and deaths in the past 
three decades. We observed an increasing trend in ASIR of primary liver cancer 
in nearly half of the countries and an increasing trend in ASIRs of primary 
liver cancer by etiology in more than one-third of the countries worldwide. In 
line with the Sustainable Development Goals, the identification and elimination 
of risk factors for primary liver cancer will be required to achieve a sustained 
reduction in liver cancer burden.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s44197-023-00109-0
PMCID: PMC10271958
PMID: 37178451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interests.


196. ACS Omega. 2023 Apr 27;8(18):15990-15999. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.2c07681. 
eCollection 2023 May 9.

Evaluation of Heavy Metal Contamination in Soil Samples around Rampal, 
Bangladesh.

Parvez MS(1), Nawshin S(1), Sultana S(1), Hossain MS(1), Rashid Khan MH(1), 
Habib MA(1), Nijhum ZT(1), Khan R(2).

Author information:
(1)Physics Discipline, Khulna University, Khulna 9208, Bangladesh.
(2)Reactor and Neutron Physics Division, Institute of Nuclear Science and 
Technology, Bangladesh Atomic Energy Commission, Savar, Dhaka 1349, Bangladesh.

Rising soil pollution has recently emerged as a significant global issue as a 
result of increased industrialization, urbanization, and inadequate waste 
management. In Rampal Upazila, soil contamination with heavy metals resulted in 
a significant deterioration of quality of life and life expectancy, so the 
study's goal is to appraise the level of heavy metal contamination in soil 
samples. Inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectrometry was used to 
identify 13 heavy metals (Al, Na, Cr, Co, Cu, Fe, Mg, Mn, Ni, Pb, Ca, Zn, and K) 
from 17 soil samples that were collected at random from Rampal. Enrichment 
factor (EF), geo-accumulation index (Igeo), contamination factor (CF), pollution 
load index, elemental fractionation, and potential ecological risk analysis were 
used to evaluate the level of pollution and sources of metal. The average 
concentration of heavy metals implies that they are below in the permissible 
limit except for Pb. Environmental indices also showed the same result for Pb. 
The ecological risk index (RI) for six elements-Mn, Zn, Cr, Fe, Cu, and Pb-is 
26.575. For investigating the behavior and origin of elements, multivariate 
statistical analysis was also applied. From the EF, Na, Cr, Fe, and Mg are in 
the anthropogenic region, and Al, Co, Cu, Mn, Ni, Ca, K, and Zn are minorly 
polluted, but Pb is highly contaminated in the Rampal area. The geo-accumulation 
index exhibits that Pb is slightly contaminated but others are not, while CF 
shows no contamination in this region. From the ecological RI, the value which 
is below 150 is called uncontaminated, which indicates that our studied area is 
ecologically free. There are various classifications of heavy metal 
contamination in the study area. Therefore, regular monitoring of soil pollution 
is required, and the public awareness needs to be raised to ensure a safe 
environment.

© 2023 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.2c07681
PMCID: PMC10173447
PMID: 37179636

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


197. Case Rep Pediatr. 2023 May 3;2023:7976780. doi: 10.1155/2023/7976780. 
eCollection 2023.

Tracheal Resection for Critical Airway Obstruction in Morquio A Syndrome.

Frauenfelder C(1)(2), Maughan E(1)(3), Kenth J(4)(5), Nandi R(1), Jones S(6), 
Walker R(4), Walsh B(1), Muthialu N(1)(3), Bruce I(5)(7)(8), Hewitt R(1)(3), 
Butler C(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(2)University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia.
(3)UCL Great Ormond Street Institute of Child Health, Great Ormond Street 
Hospital for Children, London, UK.
(4)Department of Paediatric Anaesthesia, Royal Manchester Children's Hospital, 
Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.
(5)The University of Manchester, The Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, 
Manchester, UK.
(6)The Willink Metabolic Unit, Manchester Centre for Genomic Medicine, 
Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.
(7)Paediatric ENT Department, Royal Manchester Children's Hospital, Manchester 
University NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, 
Manchester, UK.
(8)Divisions of Infection, Immunity and Respiratory Medicine, Faculty of 
Biology, Medicine and Health, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.

INTRODUCTION: The primary cause of death in Morquio A syndrome 
(mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) IVA) is airway obstruction, brought about by an 
inexorable and pathognomonic multilevel airway tortuosity, buckling, and 
obstruction. The relative pathophysiological contributions of an inherent 
cartilage processing defect versus a mismatch in longitudinal growth between the 
trachea and the thoracic cage are currently a subject of debate. Enzyme 
replacement therapy (ERT) and multidisciplinary management continue to improve 
life expectancy for Morquio A patients by slowing many of the multisystem 
pathological consequences of the disease but are not as effective at reversing 
established pathology. An urgent need has developed to consider alternatives to 
palliation of progressive tracheal obstruction to preserve and maintain these 
patients' hard-won good quality of life, as well as to facilitate spinal and 
other required surgery. Case Report. Following multidisciplinary discussion, 
transcervical tracheal resection with limited manubriectomy was successfully 
performed, without the need for cardiopulmonary bypass, in an adolescent male on 
ERT with the severe airway manifestations of Morquio A syndrome. His trachea was 
found to be under significant compressive forces at surgery. On histology, 
chondrocyte lacunae appeared enlarged, but intracellular lysosomal staining and 
extracellular glycosaminoglycan staining was comparable to control trachea. At 
12 months, this has resulted in a significant improvement in respiratory and 
functional status, with corresponding enhancement to his quality of life.
CONCLUSION: This addressing of tracheal/thoracic cage dimension mismatch 
represents a novel surgical treatment approach to an existing clinical paradigm 
and may be useful for other carefully selected individuals with MPS IVA. Further 
work is needed to better understand the role and optimal timing of tracheal 
resection within this patient cohort so as to individually balance considerable 
surgical and anaesthetic risks against the potential symptomatic and life 
expectancy benefits.

Copyright © 2023 Claire Frauenfelder et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2023/7976780
PMCID: PMC10171972
PMID: 37180285

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that have no conflicts of 
interest.


198. Microsyst Nanoeng. 2023 May 10;9:57. doi: 10.1038/s41378-023-00493-4. 
eCollection 2023.

Evaluating the efficacy and cardiotoxicity of EGFR-TKI AC0010 with a novel 
multifunctional biosensor.

Jiang D(1)(2)(3), Wei X(4), Zhu Y(1), Qiu Y(1), Liu X(1), Kong L(1), Li F(1), 
Liu J(5), Zhuang L(1), Wan H(1)(2)(3), Ying K(6), Wang P(1)(2)(3)(7).

Author information:
(1)Biosensor National Special Laboratory, Key Laboratory for Biomedical 
Engineering of Education Ministry, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310027 China.
(2)Innovation Center for Smart Medical Technologies & Devices, Binjiang 
Institute of Zhejiang University, Zhejiang, 310053 China.
(3)Cancer Center, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310058 China.
(4)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 
310058 China.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Zhejiang University School of Medicine Second 
Affiliated Hospital, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310009 China.
(6)Department of Respiratory and Critical Medicine, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, 
School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(7)State Key Laboratory for Sensor Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Shanghai, 200050 China.

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a leading cause of cancer mortality 
worldwide. Although epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors 
(EGFR-TKIs) have dramatically improved the life expectancy of patients with 
NSCLC, concerns about TKI-induced cardiotoxicities have increased. AC0010, a 
novel third-generation TKI, was developed to overcome drug resistance induced by 
EGFR-T790M mutation. However, the cardiotoxicity of AC0010 remains unclear. To 
evaluate the efficacy and cardiotoxicity of AC0010, we designed a novel 
multifunctional biosensor by integrating microelectrodes (MEs) and interdigital 
electrodes (IDEs) to comprehensively evaluate cell viability, 
electrophysiological activity, and morphological changes (beating of 
cardiomyocytes). The multifunctional biosensor can monitor AC0010-induced NSCLC 
inhibition and cardiotoxicity in a quantitative, label-free, noninvasive, and 
real-time manner. AC0010 was found to significantly inhibit NCI-H1975 
(EGFR-L858R/T790M mutation), while weak inhibition was found for A549 (wild-type 
EGFR). Negligible inhibition was found in the viabilities of HFF-1 (normal 
fibroblasts) and cardiomyocytes. With the multifunctional biosensor, we found 
that 10 μM AC0010 significantly affected the extracellular field potential (EFP) 
and mechanical beating of cardiomyocytes. The amplitude of EFP continuously 
decreased after AC0010 treatment, while the interval decreased first and then 
increased. We analyzed the change in the systole time (ST) and diastole time 
(DT) within a beating interval and found that the DT and DT/beating interval 
rate decreased within 1 h after AC0010 treatment. This result probably indicated 
that the relaxation of cardiomyocytes was insufficient, which may further 
aggravate the dysfunction. Here, we found that AC0010 significantly inhibited 
EGFR-mutant NSCLC cells and impaired cardiomyocyte function at low 
concentrations (10 μM). This is the first study in which the risk of 
AC0010-induced cardiotoxicity was evaluated. In addition, novel multifunctional 
biosensors can comprehensively evaluate the antitumor efficacy and 
cardiotoxicity of drugs and candidate compounds.

© The Author(s) 2023.

DOI: 10.1038/s41378-023-00493-4
PMCID: PMC10172296
PMID: 37180453

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare no 
competing interest.


199. Ther Adv Rare Dis. 2020 Oct 22;1:2633004020959349. doi: 
10.1177/2633004020959349. eCollection 2020 Jan-Dec.

A review of the treatment landscape in paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria: 
where are we now and where are we going?

Griffin M(1), Kelly R(2), Pike A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Bexley Wing, St James University Hospital, Leeds, 
LS9 7TF, UK.
(2)Department of Haematology, Bexley Wing, St James University Hospital, Leeds, 
UK.
(3)University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.

Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH) is an ultra-orphan disease, which 
until 15 years ago had limited treatment options. Eculizumab, a monoclonal 
antibody that inhibits C5 in the terminal complement cascade, has revolutionised 
treatment for this disease, near normalising life expectancy and improving 
quality of life for patients. The treatment landscape of PNH is now evolving, 
with ravulizumab a second longer acting intravenous C5 inhibitor now licenced by 
the FDA and EMA. With different therapeutic targets in the complement cascade 
and difference modalities of treatment, including subcutaneous, oral and 
intravenous therapies being developed, increasing independence for patients and 
reducing healthcare requirements. This review discusses the current and future 
therapies for PNH.
LAY SUMMARY: Review of current and future treatments for patients with 
Paroxysmal Nocturnal Haemoglobinuria What is Paroxysmal Nocturnal 
Haemoglobinuria? Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH) is a very rare 
disease. It arises from PNH stem cells in the bone marrow. In a normal bone 
marrow these are inactive; however, if there has been a problem in the bone 
marrow, the PNH stem cells can expand and make PNH red blood cells, white blood 
cells and platelets. The problem with these cells is that they lack the cell 
surface markers that usually protect them. Red blood cells are broken down in 
the circulation rather than the spleen, which gives rise to PNH symptoms such as 
abdominal pain, difficulty swallowing, erectile dysfunction and red or black 
urine (known as haemoglobinuria). The white blood cells and platelets are 
'stickier' increasing the risk of blood clots. Previously life expectancy was 
reduced as there were limited treatment options available. What was the aim of 
this review? To provide an overview of current and future treatment options for 
PNH Which treatments are available? • Eculizumab is an treatment given through a 
vein (intravenous) every week for 5 weeks then every 2 weeks after this, and has 
been available for 13 years, improving life expectancy to near 
normal.• Ravulizumab is a newer intravenous treatment similar to eculizumab but 
is given every 8 weeks instead of every 2 weeks. In clinical studies it was 
comparable with eculizumab.• Future Treatments - There is new research looking 
at different methods of treatment delivery, including injections under the skin 
(subcutaneous) that patients can give themselves, treatments taken by mouth 
(oral) or a combination of an intravenous and oral treatment for those patients 
who are not optimally controlled on eculizumab or ravulizumab. What does this 
mean? PNH is now treatable. For years, the only drug available was eculizumab, 
but now different targets and drug trials are available. Ravulizumab is 
currently the only second licenced product available, in USA and Europe, there 
are other medications active in clinical trials. Why is this important? The 
benefit for patients, from treatment every 2 weeks to every 8 weeks is likely to 
be improved further with the development of these new treatments, providing 
patients with improved disease control and independence.As we move into an era 
of more patient-friendly treatment options, the PNH community both physicians 
and patients look forward to new developments as discussed in this article.

© The Author(s), 2020.

DOI: 10.1177/2633004020959349
PMCID: PMC10032435
PMID: 37180495

Conflict of interest statement: Morag Griffin: Honoraria and travel support 
Alexion pharmaceuticals; Ad Board Biocryst pharmaceutics. Richard Kelly: 
Honoraria, travel support and Advisory Board Alexion pharmaceuticals; lecture 
fees and Advisory Board Amgen pharmaceuticals (for ALL not PNH). Alexandra Pike: 
PhD partly funded by Apellis Pharmaceuticals.


200. Curr Dev Nutr. 2023 Feb 8;7(5):100028. doi: 10.1016/j.cdnut.2023.100028. 
eCollection 2023 May.

Beyond the Food Systems Summit: Linking Recommendations to Action-The True Cost 
of Food.

Kennedy ET(1), Torero MA(2), Mozaffarian D(1), Masters WA(1), Steiner RA(3), 
Hendriks SL(4), Morrison JA(5), Merrigan KK(6), Ghosh SA(1), Mason-d'Croz DE(7).

Author information:
(1)Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy, Tufts University, Boston, 
MA, United States.
(2)Food and Agriculture Organization, Rome, Italy.
(3)Rockefeller Foundation, New York, NY, United States.
(4)Department of Agricultural Economics, Extension and Rural Development, 
University of Pretoria, Lynnwood Road, Hatfield, South Africa.
(5)Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition, Geneva, Switzerland.
(6)Swette Center for Sustainable Food Systems, Arizona State University, Tempe, 
AZ, United States.
(7)College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, 
United States.

A transformation of food systems is needed to achieve the 17 Sustainable 
Development Goals specified in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 
Recognizing the true costs and benefits of food production and consumption can 
help guide public policy decisions to effectively transform food systems in 
support of sustainable healthy diets. A new, expanded framework is presented 
that allows the quantification of costs and benefits in three domains: health, 
environmental, and social. The implications for policy makers are discussed. 
Curr Dev Nutr 2023;x:xx.

© 2023 Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of American Society for Nutrition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cdnut.2023.100028
PMCID: PMC10164780
PMID: 37180850


201. Front Cell Neurosci. 2023 Apr 26;17:1116405. doi:
10.3389/fncel.2023.1116405.  eCollection 2023.

Lactoferrin/sialic acid prevents adverse effects of intrauterine growth 
restriction on neurite length: investigations in an in vitro rabbit neurosphere 
model.

Kühne BA(1)(2), Gutierrez-Vázquez L(1), Sánchez Lamelas E(1), Guardia-Escote 
L(1), Pla L(2), Loreiro C(2)(3), Gratacós E(2)(3)(4), Barenys M(1)(5), Illa 
M(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Grup de Recerca en Toxicologia (GRET) i INSA-UB, Departament de Farmacologia, 
Toxicologia i Química Terapèutica, Facultat de Farmàcia i Ciències de 
l'Alimentació, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)BCNatal | Fetal Medicine Research Center (Hospital Clínic and Hospital Sant 
Joan de Déu), Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Center for Biomedical Research on Rare Diseases (CIBER-ER), Barcelona, Spain.
(5)German Centre for the Protection of Laboratory Animals (Bf3R), German Federal 
Institute for Risk Assessment (BfR), Berlin, Germany.
(6)Institut de Recerca Sant Joan de Déu, Esplugues de Llobregat, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) is a well-known cause of 
impaired neurodevelopment during life. In this study, we aimed to characterize 
alterations in neuronal development underlying IUGR and discover strategies to 
ameliorate adverse neurodevelopment effects by using a recently established 
rabbit in vitro neurosphere culture.
METHODS: IUGR was surgically induced in pregnant rabbits by ligation of 
placental vessels in one uterine horn, while the contralateral horn remained 
unaffected for normal growth (control). At this time point, rabbits were 
randomly assigned to receive either no treatment, docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), 
melatonin (MEL), or lactoferrin (LF) until c-section. Neurospheres consisting of 
neural progenitor cells were obtained from control and IUGR pup's whole brain 
and comparatively analyzed for the ability to differentiate into neurons, extend 
neurite length, and form dendritic branching or pre-synapses. We established for 
the very first time a protocol to cultivate control and IUGR rabbit neurospheres 
not only for 5 days but under long-term conditions up to 14 days under 
differentiation conditions. Additionally, an in vitro evaluation of these 
therapies was evaluated by exposing neurospheres from non-treated rabbits to 
DHA, MEL, and SA (sialic acid, which is the major lactoferrin compound) and by 
assessing the ability to differentiate neurons, extend neurite length, and form 
dendritic branching or pre-synapses.
RESULTS: We revealed that IUGR significantly increased the neurite length after 
5 days of cultivation in vitro, a result in good agreement with previous in vivo 
findings in IUGR rabbits presenting more complex dendritic arborization of 
neurons in the frontal cortex. MEL, DHA, and SA decreased the IUGR-induced 
length of primary dendrites in vitro, however, only SA was able to reduce the 
total neurite length to control level in IUGR neurospheres. After prenatal in 
vivo administration of SAs parent compound LF with subsequent evaluation in 
vitro, LF was able to prevent abnormal neurite extension.
DISCUSSION: We established for the first time the maintenance of the rabbit 
neurosphere culture for 14 days under differentiation conditions with increasing 
complexity of neuronal length and branching up to pre-synaptic formation. From 
the therapies tested, LF or its major compound, SA, prevents abnormal neurite 
extension and was therefore identified as the most promising therapy against 
IUGR-induced changes in neuronal development.

Copyright © 2023 Kühne, Gutierrez-Vázquez, Sánchez Lamelas, Guardia-Escote, Pla, 
Loreiro, Gratacós, Barenys and Illa.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2023.1116405
PMCID: PMC10169722
PMID: 37180944

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


202. Ther Adv Rare Dis. 2023 Feb 27;4:26330040231154283. doi: 
10.1177/26330040231154283. eCollection 2023 Jan-Dec.

Successful combined umbilical cord blood and bone marrow transplantation from an 
HLA-matched sibling for MPS VI: a case report.

Haria P(1), Kedage V(2), Dalvi P(2), Sanghavi S(2), Chandran P(2).

Author information:
(1)Smt. Sushilaben R. Mehta & Sir Kikabhai Premchand Cardiac Institute, Near 
Shanmukhananda Hall, Near Gandhi Market, Mumbai 400022, India.
(2)Regrow Biosciences Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai, India.

Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI (MPS VI), also known as Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome, 
polydystrophic dwarfism, and arysulfatase B (ASB) deficiency, is a lysosomal 
storage disorder with autosomal recessive inheritance characterized by 
progressive multisystem involved that causes many tissues and organs to enlarge 
and become inflamed. Skeletal deformities are common that progress and worsen in 
varying degrees thus affecting quality of life and life expectancy. Many studies 
have shown that allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation can reduce 
morbidity and enhance the survival and quality of life in such patients. We 
present a case of a 6-year-old girl diagnosed with MPS VI at the age of 3 years. 
Thereafter the patient developed various complications of the disease causing 
morbidity. She was then treated with combined umbilical cord blood (UCB) and 
bone marrow (BM) transplantation from complete human leukocyte antigen-matched 
(6/6) donor which was her younger sibling. The transplant was successful without 
any serious adverse effects. No additional treatments such as enzyme replacement 
therapy (ERT) were required. The transplantation of UCB along with BM can be 
considered as an effective treatment approach for this rare disease.
PLAIN LANGUAGE SUMMARY: Case of MPS VI treated with stem cell transplantation: 
This article reports a case of a 6-year-old girl who was diagnosed with 
mucopolysaccharidosis type VI also known as MPS VI, an autosomal recessive 
disorder that caused her arysulfatase B (ASB) deficiency. This disorder affects 
growth velocity, gives coarse facial features, gives rise to skeletal 
deformities, frequent upper-airway infections, enlarged liver and spleen, 
hearing loss, and joint stiffness. However, very few studies have reported 
definitive ways to treat or cure MPS VI. To help her combat this disorder, 
combined umbilical cord blood and bone marrow transplantation was done. This 
transplant alleviated her symptoms, and the patient did not need any further 
treatment. Follow-up, 4 years after transplantation, shows normal enzyme level, 
no complications, and improved quality of life.

© The Author(s), 2023.

DOI: 10.1177/26330040231154283
PMCID: PMC10032436
PMID: 37181074

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared the following potential 
conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or 
publication of this article: V.K., P.D., S.S., and P.C. are employees of Regrow 
Biosciences Pvt. Ltd.


203. JACC Asia. 2023 Apr 18;3(2):255-267. doi: 10.1016/j.jacasi.2023.01.006. 
eCollection 2023 Apr.

Appropriate Use Criteria for the Management of Aortic Stenosis: Insight From the 
Japanese Expert Panel.

Inohara T(1), Tabata M(2), Isotani A(3), Ohno Y(4), Izumo M(5), Imamura T(6), 
Iida Y(7), Kataoka A(8), Koyama Y(9), Otsuka T(10)(11), Watanabe Y(8), Yamamoto 
M(12)(13), Hayashida K(1); OCEAN-SHD Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Kokura Memorial Hospital, Fukuoka, Japan.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Tokai University School of Medicine, Isehara, 
Japan.
(5)Department of Cardiology, St Marianna University School of Medicine, 
Kawasaki, Japan.
(6)Second Department of Internal Medicine, University of Toyama, Toyama, Japan.
(7)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Saiseikai Yokohamashi Tobu Hospital, 
Yokohama, Japan.
(8)Department of Cardiology, Teikyo University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(9)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Gifu Heart Center, Gifu, Japan.
(10)Department of Hygiene and Public Health, Nippon Medical School, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(11)Center for Clinical Research, Nippon Medical School Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(12)Department of Cardiology, Nagoya Heart Center, Aichi, Japan.
(13)Department of Cardiology, Toyohashi Heart Center, Aichi, Japan.

Comment in
    JACC Asia. 2023 Apr 18;3(2):268-271.

BACKGROUND: The indication for transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) for 
aortic stenosis (AS) significantly varies among physicians and institutions.
OBJECTIVES: This study aims to develop a set of appropriate use criteria for AS 
management to assist physicians in decision-making.
METHODS: The RAND-modified Delphi panel method was used. A total of >250 common 
clinical scenarios were identified in terms of whether to perform the 
intervention for AS and the mode of intervention (surgical aortic valve 
replacement vs TAVR). Eleven nationally representative expert panelists 
independently rated the clinical scenario appropriateness on a scale of 1-9, as 
"appropriate" (7-9), "may be appropriate" (4-6), or "rarely appropriate" (1-3); 
the median score of the 11 experts was then assigned to an appropriate-use 
category.
RESULTS: The panel identified 3 factors that were associated with a rarely 
appropriate rating in terms of performing the intervention: 1) limited life 
expectancy; 2) frailty; and 3) pseudo-severe AS on dobutamine stress 
echocardiography. Clinical scenarios that were deemed rarely appropriate for 
TAVR were also identified: 1) patients with low surgical risk and high TAVR 
procedural risk; 2) patients with coexistent severe primary mitral regurgitation 
or rheumatic mitral stenosis; and 3) bicuspid aortic valve that was not suitable 
for TAVR. Importantly, any TAVRs for patients who were older than 75 years of 
age were not rated as rarely appropriate.
CONCLUSIONS: These appropriate use criteria provide a practical guide for 
physicians regarding clinical situations commonly encountered in daily practice 
and elucidates scenarios deemed rarely appropriate that are clinical challenges 
for TAVR.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacasi.2023.01.006
PMCID: PMC10167517
PMID: 37181396

Conflict of interest statement: This research study was supported by the Health 
and Labor Sciences Research Grants (21FA1015). Drs Tabata and Watanabe have been 
clinical proctors for Edwards Lifesciences and Medtronics. Dr Ohno has been a 
clinical proctor for Medtronics. Dr Izumo has been a screening proctor for 
Edwards Lifesciences. Dr Koyama has been a clinical proctor for Edwards 
Lifesciences. Dr Yamamoto has been a clinical proctor for Edwards Lifesciences, 
Medtronics, and Boston Scientific. Dr Hayashida has been a clinical proctor for 
Edwards Lifesciences, Medtronics, and Abbott Medicals. All other authors have 
reported that they have no relationships relevant to the contents of this paper 
to disclose.


204. Res Rep Urol. 2023 May 5;15:149-155. doi: 10.2147/RRU.S401131. eCollection
2023.

PCA3 and TMPRSS2: ERG Urine Level as Diagnostic Biomarker of Prostate Cancer.

Warli SM(1)(2), Warli MH(3), Prapiska FF(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Faculty of Medicine Universitas Sumatera Utara - 
Universitas Sumatera Utara Hospital, Medan, North Sumatera, Indonesia.
(2)Department of Surgery Urology Division, Faculty of Medicine Universitas 
Sumatera Utara - Haji Adam Malik General Hospital, Medan, North Sumatera, 
Indonesia.
(3)Department of Urology, Faculty of Medicine Universitas Indonesia - Haji Adam 
Malik General Hospital, Medan, North Sumatera, Indonesia.

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer is a highly prevalent urological carcinoma with an 
increasing incidence in Indonesia and all around the world. Early diagnosis can 
greatly affect treatment outcomes and increase life expectancy. Several 
biomarkers for detecting prostate cancer have been studied and showed great 
promise.
PURPOSE: This study aims to analyze prostate cancer antigen 3 (PCA3) as well as 
transmembrane serine protease 2:ERG (TMPRSS2:ERG) for diagnosing and serving as 
urine biomarkers in predicting prostate cancer incidences.
METHODS: We conducted an analytical study to assess the utility of PCA3 and 
TMPRSS2:ERG for detecting prostate cancer. Thirty samples were included in this 
study to see the utilization of PCA3 and TMPRSS2:ERG as diagnostic biomarkers of 
prostate cancer. A urine sample was taken and the PCA3 test was performed using 
the PCA3 PROGENSA test, while the TMPRSS2:ERG was performed using the 
chemiluminescent DNA probe method with a hybridization protection test.
RESULTS: The average age of the subject was 61.07±8.3 years. Based on 
calculations using the Mann-Whitney test, there was a significant relationship 
between prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) overexpression (p<0.001), TMPRSS2:ERG 
(p=0.001), and PCA3 (p=0.003) with prostate cancer incidence. The sensitivity of 
PCA3 and TMPRSS2:ERG in detecting prostate cancer was 76.9% and 92.3%, 
respectively. Hence, TMPRSS2:ERG and PCA3 can be used as biomarkers for the 
occurrence of prostate cancer. We also performed a Kruskal-Wallis test; however, 
there was no significant relationship between PSA (p=0.236), TMPRSS2:ERG 
(p=0.801), and PCA3 (p=0.091) with the Gleason score.
CONCLUSION: There is a significant correlation between overexpression of PSA, 
TMPRSS2:ERG and PCA3 with the incidence of prostate cancer, and TMPRSS2:ERG and 
PCA3 can be used as biomarkers of prostate cancer.

© 2023 Warli et al.

DOI: 10.2147/RRU.S401131
PMCID: PMC10167967
PMID: 37181497

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


205. Front Public Health. 2023 Apr 27;11:1101089. doi:
10.3389/fpubh.2023.1101089.  eCollection 2023.

Female perspective: the burden of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias in 
China from 1990 to 2019 and prediction of their prevalence up to 2044.

Meng W(#)(1)(2), Xie J(#)(3), Yuan N(4), Liu P(5), Yang F(6), Jiang R(1)(2), Hua 
H(1).

Author information:
(1)School of International Pharmaceutical Business, China Pharmaceutical 
University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(2)The Research Center of National Drug Policy and Ecosystem, Nanjing, Jiangsu, 
China.
(3)Institute of Regulatory Science, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu, China.
(4)School of Public Health, Dalian Medical University, Dalian, Liaoning, China.
(5)The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu, China.
(6)School of Health Policy and Management, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Dementia is more prevalent in women than in men across the world, 
and sex differences are reflected in the burden of dementia borne by women and 
men. However, a few studies have specifically analyzed the disease burden of 
dementia in Chinese women.
OBJECTIVE: This article aims to raise awareness of Chinese females with dementia 
(CFWD), outline an effective response to future trends in China from a female 
perspective, and provide a reference for the scientific formulation of dementia 
prevention and treatment policies in China.
METHODS: In this article, epidemiological data on dementia in Chinese women were 
obtained from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019, and three risk factors, 
namely, smoking, a high body mass index, and a high fasting plasma glucose, were 
selected for the analysis. This article also predicted the burden of dementia in 
Chinese women in the next 25 years.
RESULTS: The prevalence of dementia, mortality, and disability-adjusted life 
year rates increased with age in CFWD in 2019. All three risk factors provided 
by the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019 showed positive correlations for the 
effect of disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) rates on CFWD. Among them, a 
high body mass index had the greatest effect (8%) and smoking had the smallest 
effect (6.4%). Over the next 25 years, the number of CFWD and its prevalence are 
expected to be on the rise, while mortality is expected to remain relatively 
stable and decline slightly, but deaths from dementia will continue to increase.
CONCLUSIONS: The situation arising due to the spread of dementia among Chinese 
women in the future is going to become a serious issue. To reduce the burden of 
dementia, the Chinese government should prioritize its prevention and treatment. 
A multi-dimensional, long-term care system involving families, community, and 
hospitals should also be established and supported.

Copyright © 2023 Meng, Xie, Yuan, Liu, Yang, Jiang and Hua.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1101089
PMCID: PMC10173304
PMID: 37181722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


206. Public Health. 2023 Jul;220:1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2023.04.005. Epub 2023
May  12.

The global burden and trends of four major types of heart disease, 1990-2019: a 
systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

Yu G(1), Gong X(1), Xu Y(1), Sun H(1), Liu Y(1), Zhai C(1), Hu W(1), Zong Q(1), 
Hu D(2), Yan Z(1), Wang Y(1), Wang L(1), Zhang T(1), Wang F(3), Zou Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Anhui 
Medical University, Hefei, Anhui, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, Hefei, Anhui, China; Clinical Cancer Institute, Center for 
Translational Medicine, Naval Medical University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, Hefei, Anhui, China.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Anhui 
Medical University, Hefei, Anhui, China. Electronic address: 
zouyanfeng2015@163.com.

OBJECTIVES: The global burden of heart disease is severe and increasing in the 
coming years. This study aims to analyze the global burden of heart disease.
STUDY DESIGN: Rheumatic heart disease (RHD), ischemic heart disease (IHD), 
hypertensive heart disease (HHD), and non-rheumatic valvular heart disease 
(NRVHD) were selected and analyzed from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.
METHODS: The prevalence, deaths, disability-adjusted life years and their 
corresponding age-standardized rates were obtained from the Global Burden of 
Disease Study 2019. In addition, estimated annual percentage change was 
calculated to better assess epidemiological trends. In addition, we performed an 
age-period-cohort analysis using the Nordpred package in R program to predict 
death trends over the next 20 years.
RESULTS: Globally, the prevalence of four heart diseases (RHD, IHD, HHD, and 
NRVHD) increased by 70.5%, 103.5%, 137.9%, and 110.0% compared with 1990, 
respectively. The deaths cases of RHD decreased by 15.6%, whereas IHD, HHD, and 
NRVHD increased by 60.4%, 76.6%, and 110.6%. Compared with absolute values, 
their corresponding age-standardized rates only showed a slight increase trend 
or even decreased in some areas with high sociodemographic index. In the next 20 
years, the absolute values of deaths will continue to increase, whereas their 
age-standardized rates of deaths will flatten out.
CONCLUSIONS: Globally, the absolute values of heart disease have increased over 
the past 30 years and will continue to increase over the next 20 years. Targeted 
prevention and control strategies and measures need to be developed and improved 
to reduce this burden.

Copyright © 2023 The Royal Society for Public Health. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2023.04.005
PMID: 37182373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Lancet Healthy Longev. 2023 Jun;4(6):e284-e291. doi: 
10.1016/S2666-7568(23)00052-1. Epub 2023 May 11.

Gender inequalities as contributors to dementia in Latin America and the 
Caribbean: what factors are missing from research?

Ribeiro FS(1), Crivelli L(2), Leist AK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Sciences, University of Luxembourg, Esch-sur-Alzette, 
Luxembourg. Electronic address: fabiana.ribeiro@uni.lu.
(2)Department of Cognitive Neurology, FLENI, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)Department of Social Sciences, University of Luxembourg, Esch-sur-Alzette, 
Luxembourg.

The current knowledge of modifiable risk factors for dementia comes mainly from 
high-income countries. In Latin America and Caribbean countries, where the 
burden of gender and socioeconomic inequalities is greater than in high-income 
countries, the prevalence of dementia is also higher and disease onset is 
earlier, especially among women, even after adjustments for life expectancy. In 
this Personal View, we discuss socioeconomic modifiable risk factors for 
dementia established by previous studies and postulate further harmful and often 
hidden factors faced by women that might influence the gender-specific timing of 
onset and general prevalence of dementia. We emphasise some of the effects of 
gender roles, their direct and indirect effects on dementia, and how they 
disproportionately impact women. Finally, we highlight the importance of 
bringing hidden risk factors to open discussion to promote research with 
high-quality data and to encourage public policies to promote and preserve 
women's health.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2666-7568(23)00052-1
PMID: 37182531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests AKL reports 
remuneration from Roche related to consultancy activities. FSR and LC declare no 
competing interests.


208. Aging Cell. 2023 May 14:e13862. doi: 10.1111/acel.13862. Online ahead of
print.

The African killifish: A short-lived vertebrate model to study the biology of 
sarcopenia and longevity.

Ruparelia AA(1)(2)(3), Salavaty A(1)(4), Barlow CK(5)(6), Lu Y(1), Sonntag C(1), 
Hersey L(1), Eramo MJ(7), Krug J(8), Reuter H(8), Schittenhelm RB(5)(6), 
Ramialison M(1)(4), Cox A(9)(10), Ryan MT(7), Creek DJ(6)(11), Englert C(8)(12), 
Currie PD(1)(13).

Author information:
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, 
Australia.
(2)Department of Anatomy and Physiology, School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty 
of Medicine Dentistry and Health Sciences, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(3)Centre for Muscle Research, Department of Anatomy and Physiology, University 
of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.
(4)Systems Biology Institute Australia, Monash University, Clayton, Australia.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Monash University, Clayton, 
Australia.
(6)Monash Proteomics and Metabolomics Facility, Monash Biomedicine Discovery 
Institute, Monash University, Clayton, Australia.
(7)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Monash Biomedicine 
Discovery Institute, Monash University, Clayton, Australia.
(8)Leibniz Institute on Aging-Fritz Lipmann Institute (FLI), Jena, Germany.
(9)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, Australia.
(10)Department of Biochemistry and Pharmacology, The University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(11)Drug Delivery, Disposition and Dynamics, Monash Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Monash University, Parkville, Australia.
(12)Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Friedrich-Schiller-University 
Jena, Jena, Germany.
(13)EMBL Australia, Victorian Node, Monash University, Clayton, Australia.

Sarcopenia, the age-related decline in muscle function, places a considerable 
burden on health-care systems. While the stereotypic hallmarks of sarcopenia are 
well characterized, their contribution to muscle wasting remains elusive, which 
is partly due to the limited availability of animal models. Here, we have 
performed cellular and molecular characterization of skeletal muscle from the 
African killifish-an extremely short-lived vertebrate-revealing that while many 
characteristics deteriorate with increasing age, supporting the use of killifish 
as a model for sarcopenia research, some features surprisingly reverse to an 
"early-life" state in the extremely old stages. This suggests that in extremely 
old animals, there may be mechanisms that prevent further deterioration of 
skeletal muscle, contributing to an extension of life span. In line with this, 
we report a reduction in mortality rates in extremely old killifish. To identify 
mechanisms for this phenomenon, we used a systems metabolomics approach, which 
revealed that during aging there is a striking depletion of triglycerides, 
mimicking a state of calorie restriction. This results in the activation of 
mitohormesis, increasing Sirt1 levels, which improves lipid metabolism and 
maintains nutrient homeostasis in extremely old animals. Pharmacological 
induction of Sirt1 in aged animals was sufficient to induce a late life-like 
metabolic profile, supporting its role in life span extension in vertebrate 
populations that are naturally long-lived. Collectively, our results demonstrate 
that killifish are not only a novel model to study the biological processes that 
govern sarcopenia, but they also provide a unique vertebrate system to dissect 
the regulation of longevity.

© 2023 The Authors. Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.13862
PMID: 37183563


209. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2023 Aug 1;19(2):2184605. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2023.2184605. Epub 2023 May 15.

Health impact and cost-effectiveness of implementing gender-neutral vaccination 
with the 9-valent HPV vaccine in Hong Kong.

Cheung TH(1), Cheng SSY(2), Hsu D(2), Wing-Lei Wong Q(2), Pavelyev A(3), Sukarom 
I(4), Saxena K(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(2)Global Medical and Scientific Affairs, MSD Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(3)Center for Observational and Real-World Evidence, Merck & Co., Inc, Rahway, 
NJ, USA.
(4)Center for Observational and Real-world Evidence, MSD Thailand, Bangkok, 
Thailand.

Human papillomavirus (HPV) can cause several diseases, including cancers, in 
both sexes. In January 2020, the Hong Kong government launched a school-based 
vaccination program for girls 10-12 years of age with the 9-valent HPV (9vHPV) 
vaccine for the prevention of HPV-related diseases; however, boys were not 
included. The current study estimated the potential health and economic impact 
of a routine gender-neutral vaccination (GNV) approach compared with the current 
female-only vaccination (FOV) strategy. We used a dynamic transmission model, 
adapted to Hong Kong. The model estimates changes in HPV-related disease 
incidence and mortality, treatment costs (in 2019 Hong Kong dollars), 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) over a 100-year time horizon. The base case analysis compared FOV with 
the 9vHPV vaccine with routine GNV (coverage rate 70%) for the prevention of 
HPV-related diseases. Compared with a FOV approach, routine GNV with the 9vHPV 
vaccine is predicted to provide greater reductions in cumulative HPV-related 
disease incidence and mortality, as well as lower HPV-related treatment costs. 
In the base case analysis, the ICER was $248,354 per QALY for routine GNV. As 
compared with FOV, routine GNV fell below the cost-effectiveness ceiling of 
$382,046/year for Hong Kong. These results highlight the potential value of a 
routine GNV program with the 9vHPV vaccine among 12-year-olds in Hong Kong to 
reduce the public health and economic burden of HPV-related diseases.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2023.2184605
PMCID: PMC10208209
PMID: 37183965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Sally Shuk Yee Cheng, Danny Hsu, Queenie 
Wing-Lei Wong, Andrew Pavelyev, Isaya Sukarom, and Kunal Saxena are employees of 
Merck Sharp & Dohme LLC, a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, NJ, USA and 
shareholders in Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, NJ, USA. Tak Hong Cheung has no 
conflict of interest to report.


210. J Craniofac Surg. 2023 Sep 1;34(6):1795-1798. doi:
10.1097/SCS.0000000000009344.  Epub 2023 May 15.

Epidemiology and Predictors for Cervical Burn Scar Contractures: A Multicenter 
Cohort Study.

Li R(1), Zheng Y(2), Fan X(3), Cao Z(1), Yue Q(1), Fan J(1), Gan C(1), Jiao 
H(1), Liu L(1).

Author information:
(1)9th Department, Plastic Surgery Hospital, Peking Union Medical College, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of General Surgery, National Center of Gerontology, Institute of 
Geriatric Medicine, Beijing Hospital, Peking Union Medical College, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Plastic Surgery, Beijing Ever Care Medical and Beauty Hospital, 
