Weiner KAS(1), Rieger CC(1), Wohl DL(2), Harley EH(1).

Author information:
(1)Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC, USA.
(2)University of Florida at Jacksonville, Jacksonville, FL, USA.

Deep neck infections are common in infants and occur in several anatomic 
subsites including the retropharyngeal space. Retropharyngeal abscesses are 
significant given their propensity for mediastinal extension and can have 
life-threatening sequelae. We present 3 cases of retropharyngeal abscess with 
mediastinal extension in infants. In one case, an incompletely vaccinated 
10-month-old boy presented with cough, rhinorrhea, and fever. Despite antibiotic 
treatment, he developed Horner's syndrome and hypoxia. A computed tomography 
(CT) scan showed a C1-T7 retropharyngeal abscess. He underwent transoral 
incision and drainage and recovered fully. In another case, a 12-month old 
infant presented with 8 days of fever and neck pain. A CT scan showed a 
retropharyngeal collection extending to the mediastinum and right hemithorax. 
Transoral incision and drainage and video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery 
thoracotomy were performed for abscess drainage. He recovered fully with 
antibiotics. In the third case, an 8-month-old boy presented to the emergency 
room following several days of fever, lethargy, and decreased neck range of 
motion. A CT scan showed a large retropharyngeal abscess that required both 
transoral and transcervical drainage. His case was complicated by septic shock, 
yet the patient eventually made a full recovery.

DOI: 10.1177/01455613231178975
PMID: 37309202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Cureus. 2023 May 12;15(5):e38944. doi: 10.7759/cureus.38944. eCollection
2023  May.

Life Expectancy and Mortality After Lower Extremity Amputation: Overview and 
Analysis of Literature.

Qaarie MY(1).

Author information:
(1)Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Jazan University, Jazan, SAU.

Lower limb amputation (LLA) is a major surgical procedure with a significant 
impact on quality of life and mortality rates as well. Previous studies have 
shown that mortality rates following LLA can range from 9-17% within 30 days in 
the UK. This study systematically evaluates and reviews the published literature 
on life expectancy, mortality, and survival rates following lower extremity 
amputation (LEA). We have conducted a comprehensive search on Medline, CINAHL, 
and Cochrane Central databases resulting in 87 full-text articles. After a 
thorough review, only 45 (52.9%) articles met the minimum inclusion criteria for 
the study. Our analysis indicated 30-day mortality rates following LEA ranged 
from 7.1% to 51.4%, with an average mortality rate of 16.45% (SD 14.35) per 
study. Furthermore, 30-day mortality rates following below-knee amputation (BKA) 
and above-knee amputation (AKA) were found to be between 6.2% to 51.4%, X= 
17.16% ± 19.46 SD and 12.7 to 21.7%, X= 16.15% ± 4.17 SD, respectively. Our 
review provides a comprehensive insight into the life expectancy, mortality, and 
survival rates following LEA. These findings highlight the importance of 
considering various factors, including patient age, presence of comorbidities 
such as diabetes, heart failure, and renal failure, and lifestyle factors such 
as smoking, in determining prognosis following LLA. Further research is 
necessary to determine strategies for improving outcomes and reducing mortality 
in this patient population.

Copyright © 2023, Qaarie et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.38944
PMCID: PMC10257952
PMID: 37309338

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


624. Clinicoecon Outcomes Res. 2023 Jun 7;15:433-442. doi: 10.2147/CEOR.S395170. 
eCollection 2023.

Cost and Cost-Effectiveness of Treating Childhood Cancer at Jimma Medical 
Center.

Genemo I(1), Chala TK(1), Hordofa DF(2), Sinkie SO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Jimma University, Jimma, Oromia, 
Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Pediatric Oncology Unit, Jimma University, Jimma, Oromia, 
Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: More than 70% of childhood cancer patients die in Sub-Saharan 
African countries due to a lack of access. Additionally establishing a childhood 
cancer treatment service is perceived as expensive by the decision-makers of 
LMICs. However, there is a paucity of evidence on the actual cost and 
cost-effectiveness of this service in LMICs including Ethiopia. This study 
provides context-relevant evidence to consider childhood cancer treatment in the 
healthcare priority settings in Ethiopia and other LMICs.
METHODS: Newly admitted case files of children for the year 2020/21 were 
reviewed. The cost was analyzed from the provider's perspective. The 
effectiveness was calculated using DALY averted based on the 5 years of survival 
rates, which is estimated from the 1-year survival rate of Kaplan-Meier output. 
The do-nothing was our comparator, and we assumed no cost (zero cost) will be 
incurred for the comparator. To account for sensitivity analyses, we varied the 
discount rate, 5-year survival rate, and life expectancy.
RESULTS: During the study period, 101 children were treated in the unit. The 
total annual and unit cost to give treatment to childhood cancer patients was 
estimated at $279,648 and $2769, respectively. The highest per-patient annual 
unit cost of treatment was Hodgkin's lymphoma ($6252), while Retinoblastoma 
($1520) was the least. The cost per DALY averted was $193, which is 
significantly less than Ethiopia's GDP per capita ($936.3). The results remained 
very cost-effective in sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSION: Childhood cancer treatment is very cost-effective in Ethiopia as per 
WHO-CHOICE thresholds even in a conservative adjustment of assumptions. 
Therefore, to enhance and improve children's health, childhood cancer should get 
a better concern in health priority.

© 2023 Genemo et al.

DOI: 10.2147/CEOR.S395170
PMCID: PMC10257924
PMID: 37309357

Conflict of interest statement: All authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose except Dr Diriba Fufa who is a Head of the pediatric oncology unit at 
Jimma Medical Centre, and also a Chair, at Jimma University, Health Institute 
Staff Council.


625. Palliat Med. 2023 Sep;37(8):1193-1201. doi: 10.1177/02692163231180322. Epub
2023  Jun 13.

Effects of advance care planning in care dependent community-dwelling older 
persons (STADPLAN): A cluster-randomised controlled trial.

Hoffmann F(1), Schnakenberg R(1), Silies K(2), Berg A(3), Kirchner Ä(3), Jaschke 
J(4), Haastert B(5), Wiese B(6), Köberlein-Neu J(4), Meyer G(3), Köpke S(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, School of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Carl von Ossietzky University Oldenburg, Oldenburg, Germany.
(2)Institute for Social Medicine and Epidemiology, Nursing Research Unit, 
University of Lübeck, Germany.
(3)Medical Faculty, Institute for Health and Nursing Science, Martin Luther 
University Halle-Wittenberg, Halle (Saale), Germany.
(4)Center for Health Economics and Health Services Research, Schumpeter School 
of Business and Economics, University of Wuppertal, Wuppertal, Germany.
(5)mediStatistica, Wuppertal, Germany.
(6)Institute for General Practice, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany.
(7)Institute of Nursing Sciences, University of Cologne, Medical Faculty and 
University Hospital Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Most randomised controlled trials on advance care planning were 
conducted in people with advanced, life-limiting illnesses or in institutional 
settings. There are few studies on its effect in older people living in the 
community.
AIM: To determine the effects of advance care planning in older community 
dwelling people.
DESIGN: The STADPLAN study was a cluster-randomised trial with 12 months 
follow-up. The complex intervention comprised a 2-days training for nurse 
facilitators that delivered a formal advance care planning counselling and a 
written information brochure. Patients in the control group received optimised 
usual care, that is, provision of a short information brochure.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: Home care services in three regions of Germany were 
randomised using concealed allocation. Care dependent clients of participating 
home care services, aged 60 years or older, and rated to have a life-expectancy 
of at least 4 weeks were included. Primary outcome was active participation in 
care at 12 months, assessed by blinded investigators using the Patient 
Activation Measure (PAM-13).
RESULTS: Twenty-seven home care services and 380 patients took part. Three 
hundred seventy-three patients were included in the primary analysis (n = 206 in 
the intervention and n = 167 in the control group). There was no statistically 
significant difference between the intervention and control group with regard to 
the PAM-13 after 12 months (75.7 vs 78.4; p = 0.13). No differences in quality 
of life, anxiety and depression, advance care planning engagement, and in 
proportion of participants with advance directives were found between groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The intervention showed no relevant effects on patient activation 
or quality of life in community dwelling older persons, possibly indicating the 
need for more tailored interventions. However, results are limited by a lack of 
statistical power.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: German Clinical Trials Register: DRKS00016886.

DOI: 10.1177/02692163231180322
PMCID: PMC10503242
PMID: 37310014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


626. Salud Colect. 2023 Mar 23;19:e4247. doi: 10.18294/sc.2023.4247.

[Decrease in Mexico's life expectancy due to multiple homicides: the murder of 
women adjacent to the homicide of one or more men].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Jasso Vargas R(1).

Author information:
(1)Doctora en Estudios de Población. Investigadora asociada C, Centro de 
Investigaciones Multidisciplinarias sobre Chiapas y la Frontera Sur, Universidad 
Nacional Autónoma México, Chiapas, México. rjasso@colmex.mx.

The objective is to analyze the effect of multiple homicides on male and female 
life expectancy and to provide empirical evidence of the temporal and spatial 
associations between male and female homicide rates by age group during the 
period 2002-2020. Using data from the National Institute of Statistics and 
Geography (INEGI) and population projections from the National Population 
Council (CONAPO), mortality rates due to homicide from 2002-2020 were estimated 
for both men and women, and the adjacency of homicides of men and women was 
analyzed, along with the spatial proximity between multiple homicides of men and 
women, along with changes in life expectancy due to homicide. Individual 
homicides have caused the greatest decrease in life expectancy for both men and 
women. The negative impact of multiple homicides on both female and male life 
expectancy began to draw attention in 2008. By analyzing the murders of women 
adjacent to the homicides of one or more men questions are raised about whether 
these crimes are primarily the result of criminal violence, and to a lesser 
extent the role of gender.

Publisher: El objetivo es analizar el efecto de los homicidios múltiples sobre 
la esperanza de vida para la población masculina y femenina y ofrecer algunas 
evidencias empíricas sobre la correspondencia temporal y espacial entre las 
tasas de homicidio de hombres y mujeres, según grupo de edad, durante el periodo 
2002-2020. A partir de datos del Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía 
(INEGI) y de las proyecciones de población del Consejo Nacional de Población 
(CONAPO), se estimaron las tasas de mortalidad por homicidios en hombres y 
mujeres entre 2002 y 2020, se analizó la adyacencia de homicidios de hombres y 
mujeres, la relación espacial entre homicidios múltiples de hombres y mujeres y 
los cambios en la esperanza de vida debida a homicidios. Los homicidios 
unipersonales han provocado la mayor pérdida de esperanza de vida de hombres y 
mujeres. El efecto negativo sobre la esperanza de vida femenina y masculina 
debida a homicidios múltiples comienza a ser visible a partir de 2008. La 
exploración de los homicidios de mujeres adyacentes al homicidio de uno o más 
hombres plantea la inquietud de si estos crímenes son un resultado preponderante 
de la violencia delincuencial y en menor medida por razones de género.

DOI: 10.18294/sc.2023.4247
PMID: 37311137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Rev Esp Cir Ortop Traumatol. 2023 Sep-Oct;67(5):T418-T425. doi: 
10.1016/j.recot.2023.06.009. Epub 2023 Jun 11.

[Translated article] Total knee arthroplasty is effective in patients with 
Parkinson's disease. Functional assessment and analysis of complications.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Díaz-Dilernia F(1), García-Mansilla A(2), Nicolino T(3), Costantini J(3), Carbo 
L(3).

Author information:
(1)Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre/Holland Orthopaedic & Arthritic Centre, 
Division of Orthopaedic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: 
fernandodiazdilernia@gmail.com.
(2)Unidad de Cirugía de Rodilla, Departamento de Ortopedia, Instituto de 
Ortopedia Carlos E. Ottolenghi, Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina. Electronic address: garciamansillaagustin@gmail.com.
(3)Unidad de Cirugía de Rodilla, Departamento de Ortopedia, Instituto de 
Ortopedia Carlos E. Ottolenghi, Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina.

INTRODUCTION: Thanks to improvements in the medical treatment of Parkinson's 
disease (PD), the life expectancy of these patients has increased, but the 
overall outcome after total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is controversial. We aim to 
analyse a series of patients with PD, evaluating their clinical status, 
functional results, complications and survival rates after TKA.
METHODS: We retrospectively studied 31 patients with PD operated between 2014 
and 2020. The mean age was 71 years (SD±5.8). There were 16 female patients. The 
mean follow-up was 68.2 months (SD±36). We used the knee scoring system (KSS) 
and the visual analogue scale (VAS) for the functional evaluation. The modified 
Hoehn and Yahr scale was used to assess the severity of PD. All complications 
were recorded, and survival curves were performed.
RESULTS: The mean postoperative KSS evaluation had an increase of 40 points [35 
(SD±15) vs 75 (SD±15) (p<.001)]. The mean postoperative VAS decreased 5 points 
[8 (SD±2) vs 3 (SD±2) (p<.001)]. Thirteen patients reported being very 
satisfied, 13 were satisfied, and only 5 were poorly satisfied. Seven patients 
suffered surgical complications, and 4 patients had recurrent patellar 
instability. At a mean 68.2 months follow-up, the overall survival rate was 
93.5%. When considering the secondary patellar resurfacing as the endpoint, the 
survival rate was 80.6%.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, TKA was associated with excellent functional 
outcomes in patients with PD. At a mean 68.2 months follow-up, TKA had excellent 
survivorship in the short term, with recurrent patellar instability as the most 
common complication. Even though these findings confirm the effectiveness of TKA 
in this population, a thorough clinical evaluation and multidisciplinary 
approach are needed to decrease the likelihood of complications.

Copyright © 2023 SECOT. Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.recot.2023.06.009
PMID: 37311479


628. BMJ Glob Health. 2023 Jun;8(6):e012106. doi: 10.1136/bmjgh-2023-012106.

Context matters for disability and priority setting for musculoskeletal 
diseases: revisiting the egalitarian approach to disability weights and 
disability-adjusted life-years.

Pigeolet M(1)(2)(3), Franco H(4), Nussbaum L(5), Corlew DS(2), Meara J(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Bruxelles, Belgium 
manon.pigeolet@outlook.com.
(2)The Program in Global Surgery and Social Change, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Department of Orthopedics, Hôpital Universitaire Necker - Enfants malades, 
Paris, France.
(4)Department of Global Health and Social Medicine, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Department of Plastic & Oral Surgery, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

Health metrics have evolved with increasing sophistication. The 
disability-adjusted life-year (DALY) has emerged as a widely used metric. While 
DALYs vary between countries, the global disability weights (DWs) that are 
integral to the DALY ignore the potential impact of local factors on the burden 
of disease. Developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH), a spectrum of hip 
pathologies, typically develops during early childhood and is a leading cause of 
early hip osteoarthritis. This paper explores the variability in the DW for DDH 
in relation to to local health environments using select health system 
indicators.The DW for DDH increases with decreasing income level of countries. 
The Human Development Index and the Gross Domestic Product per capita are both 
negatively correlated with (p<0.05) the DW for DDH per country. For the 
indicators surgical workforce, surgical procedures and hospital beds per 1000 
population, there is a significant negative correlation in countries not meeting 
the minimum standard of that indicator (p<0.05), while for countries meeting 
that minimum standard, the correlation between DW for DDH and the respective 
indicator is not significantly different from zero.Consideration should be given 
to re-establishing the DWs for health entities in countries that do not meet the 
minimum standards of a functional health system. This would more accurately 
reflect the burden of disease from a functional perspective in LMICs, and 
perhaps allow for more informed priority setting within LMICs and for donors. 
The establishment of these DWs should not start from scratch; our data suggest 
that the variability in DWs due to context can most likely be modelled using 
health system and financial protection indicators already in use today.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjgh-2023-012106
PMCID: PMC10277058
PMID: 37311581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


629. Perioper Med (Lond). 2023 Jun 13;12(1):25. doi: 10.1186/s13741-023-00315-1.

Review of cancer therapies for the perioperative physician.

Dabo-Trubelja A(1), Gottumukkala V(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care, Onco-Anesthesia Fellowship, 
Perioperative Echocardiography and Ultrasound, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center of Weill Cornell Medical Center, 1274 York Ave C-330, New York, NY, 
10065, USA. Daboa@mskcc.org.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine Program for 
Advancement of Perioperative Cancer Care, MD Anderson Cancer Center, The 
University of Texas, Houston, TX, USA.

Advances in cancer treatments over the past decades combining chemotherapy with 
novel technologies in immunotherapies, radiation therapies, and interventional 
radiology have prolonged life expectancy. Patients have more options for 
treatments of their primary or metastatic diseases. Increased procedural 
techniques amid an aging population with multiple comorbidities present risks 
and challenges in the perioperative period.Chemotherapy remains the mainstay of 
cancer treatment, can be given intraoperatively, and is combined with other 
treatment modalities. Immunotherapy is particular to cancer cells while being 
less toxic to healthy cells. Cancer vaccines stimulate the immune system to stop 
disease progression. Oncolytic viruses enhance the immune system's cytotoxic 
effect and show promise to halt metastatic disease progression if present in the 
perioperative period. Novel techniques in radiation therapy combined with 
traditional treatments show enhanced survival. This review focuses on current 
cancer treatments encountered in the perioperative period.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13741-023-00315-1
PMCID: PMC10262136
PMID: 37312150

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


630. Front Oncol. 2023 May 29;13:1182479. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1182479.
eCollection  2023.

The impact of adipose tissue distribution on endometrial cancer: a systematic 
review.

van den Bosch AAS(1), Pijnenborg JMA(2), Romano A(1), Winkens B(3), van der 
Putten LJM(2), Kruitwagen RFPM(1), Werner HMJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, GROW-School for Oncology and 
Reproduction, Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, Netherlands.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Radboudumc, Nijmegen, Netherlands.
(3)Department of Methodology and Statistics, Maastricht University, Maastricht, 
Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Endometrial cancer (EC) is the most common gynecological cancer 
with a rising incidence, attributed to advanced life expectancy and obesity. 
Adipose tissue (AT) is an important endocrine organ, and its metabolic activity 
is affected by the different anatomical distribution or locations. AT 
distribution influences a number of diseases. In EC, it remains unclear whether 
the type of AT distribution affects development or prognosis. This systematic 
review aimed to determine whether AT distribution is associated with patient 
characteristics, disease characteristics, and patient prognosis in EC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A search was conducted in Medline, MEDLINE EMBASE, and 
Cochrane Library. We included studies that enrolled patients with EC with any 
histological subtype and that distinguished between the visceral and 
subcutaneous AT compartment. In eligible studies, correlative analyses were 
performed for all outcome measures and AT distribution.
RESULTS: Eleven retrospective studies were included, with a wide range of 
measurements for the visceral and subcutaneous AT compartments. AT distribution 
was found to be significantly correlated to a number of relevant (disease) 
characteristics including obesity measures, histological subtype, lymph node 
metastasis, and sex steroid levels. Five studies reported on survival parameters 
including overall survival, progression-free survival and disease-specific 
survival, and they found that increased VAT volume was statistically 
significantly associated with a worse survival.
DISCUSSION/CONCLUSION: This review demonstrates that there are significant 
correlations between AT distribution and prognosis, body mass index, sex steroid 
levels, and disease characteristics like histology. Well-designed, prospective, 
and larger-scale studies are needed to pinpoint these differences more 
specifically and understand how it can add in prediction and even therapy in EC.

Copyright © 2023 Bosch, Pijnenborg, Romano, Winkens, Putten, Kruitwagen and 
Werner.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1182479
PMCID: PMC10258319
PMID: 37313459

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


631. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2023 Nov 30;30(17):1874-1880. doi:
10.1093/eurjpc/zwad203.

Modelling the potential long-term survival benefit of evinacumab treatment vs. 
standard of care in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia.

Gu J(1), Kuznik A(1), Quon P(1), Chauhan A(2), Sravya TS(2), Raal FJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 777 Old Saw Mill, River Road, Tarrytown, NY 
10591, USA.
(2)Axtria, Berkeley Heights, NJ, USA.
(3)Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolism Research Unit, Division of Endocrinology 
and Metabolism, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University 
of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.

AIMS: Despite intensive lipid-lowering therapies (LLTs), most patients with 
homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (HoFH) do not achieve guideline 
recommended low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) targets and are at 
increased risk of premature cardiovascular death. This analysis aimed to predict 
the impact of evinacumab and standard-of-care LLTs on life expectancy in an HoFH 
population using mathematical modelling.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Mathematical models were developed using efficacy data for 
evinacumab from the phase 3 ELIPSE HoFH trial plus efficacy data for 
standard-of-care LLTs from peer-reviewed publications. Treatment strategies 
evaluated included (i) untreated, (ii) high-intensity statin (HIS) only, (iii) 
HIS plus ezetimibe, (iv) HIS plus ezetimibe plus proprotein convertase 
subtilisin/kexin type 9 inhibitor (PCSK9i), and (v) HIS plus ezetimibe plus 
PCSK9i plus evinacumab. Markov analyses were used to assess differences in 
survival probability for different LLT strategies. The median survival for 
untreated HoFH patients was only 33-43 years, depending on different assumptions 
on baseline untreated LDL-C levels. In the most robust model, we estimated that 
HIS increased median survival by 9 years and ezetimibe further increased median 
survival by an additional 9 years. When PCSK9i was added on top of HIS plus 
ezetimibe, median survival was further improved by 14 years. Finally, the 
addition of evinacumab to standard-of-care LLTs was estimated to increase median 
survival by ∼12 years.
CONCLUSION: In this mathematical modelling analysis, evinacumab treatment could 
potentially increase long-term survival vs. standard-of-care LLTs for patients 
with HoFH.

Plain Language Summary: This mathematical modelling analysis demonstrated that 
evinacumab in addition to standard-of-care lipid-lowering treatments (LLTs; 
high-intensity statin plus ezetimibe plus proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin 
type 9 inhibitor) could increase long-term survival to a median of 77 years vs. 
the 65 years achieved with only standard-of-care LLTs in patients with 
homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1093/eurjpc/zwad203
PMID: 37314419

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: J.G., A.K., and P.Q. are 
employees of and stockholders in Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. A.C. and T.S.S. 
are employees of Axtria. F.J.R. has received research grants, honoraria, or 
consulting fees for professional input from, and/or delivered lectures for, 
Sanofi, Regeneron, Amgen, Novartis, and LIB Therapeutics.


632. JAMA Cardiol. 2023 Aug 1;8(8):715-716. doi: 10.1001/jamacardio.2023.1459.

Implementing Shared Decision-making for Patients With Aortic Stenosis With 
Longer Life Expectancy.

Coylewright M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Erlanger Health System, 
University of Tennessee College of Medicine-Chattanooga.

Plain Language Summary: This Viewpoint describes how shared decision-making 
should be used in patients with aortic stenosis who have a longer life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1001/jamacardio.2023.1459
PMID: 37314799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Postpartum Care up to 1 Year After Pregnancy: A Systematic Review and 
Meta-Analysis [Internet].

Saldanha IJ, Adam GP, Kanaan G, Zahradnik ML, Steele DW, Danilack VA, Peahl AF, 
Chen KK, Stuebe AM, Balk EM.

Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US); 2023 Jun. 
Report No.: 23-EHC010.
AHRQ Comparative Effectiveness Reviews.

OBJECTIVES: This systematic review assesses postpartum care for individuals up 
to 1 year after pregnancy. We addressed two Key Questions (KQs) related to the 
comparative effectiveness and harms of: (1) alternative strategies for 
postpartum healthcare delivery and (2) extension of postpartum health insurance 
coverage.
DATA SOURCES AND REVIEW METHODS: We searched Medline®, Embase®, Cochrane 
CENTRAL, CINAHL®, and ClinicalTrials.gov from inception to November 16, 2022, to 
identify comparative studies in the United States and Canada (for KQ 1) and in 
the United States (for KQ 2). We extracted study data into the Systematic Review 
Data Repository Plus (SRDR+; https://srdrplus.ahrq.gov). We assessed the risk of 
bias and evaluated the strength of evidence (SoE) using standard methods. The 
protocol was registered in PROSPERO (registration number CRD42022309756).
RESULTS: We included 50 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and 14 nonrandomized 
comparative studies (NRCSs) for KQ 1 and 28 NRCSs for KQ 2. Risk of bias was 
moderate to high for most RCTs and all NRCSs. KQ 1: Regarding where healthcare 
is provided, for general postpartum care (6 studies), whether the visit is at 
home/by telephone or at the clinic may not impact depression or anxiety symptoms 
(low SoE). For breastfeeding care (8 studies), whether the initial visit is at 
home or at the pediatric clinic may not impact depression symptoms up to 6 
months postpartum, anxiety symptoms up to 2 months, hospital readmission up to 3 
months (summary relative risk [RR] 1.38, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.90 to 
2.13; 4 studies), or other unplanned care utilization up to 2 months (low SoE, 
all outcomes). Regarding how care is provided, for general postpartum care (4 
studies), integration of care (i.e., care provided by multiple types of 
providers) may not impact depression symptoms or substance use up to 1 year (low 
SoE). Regarding when care is provided, for contraceptive care (9 studies), 
compared with later contraception, earlier contraception start is probably 
associated with comparable continued IUD use at 3 and 6 months but greater 
implant use at 6 months (summary RR 1.36, 95% CI 1.13 to 1.64; 2 RCTs) (moderate 
SoE). Regarding who provides care, for breastfeeding care (19 studies), compared 
with no peer support, peer support is probably associated with higher rates of 
any breastfeeding at 1 month (summary effect size [ES] 1.13, 95% CI 1.03 to 
1.24; 4 studies) and 3 to 6 months (summary ES 1.22, 95% CI 1.06 to 1.41; 4 
studies) and of exclusive breastfeeding at 1 month (summary ES 1.10, 95% CI 1.02 
to 1.19; 6 studies) but probably yields comparable rates of exclusive 
breastfeeding at 3 months and nonexclusive breastfeeding at 1 and 3 months (all 
moderate SoE). Compared with no lactation consultant, breastfeeding care by a 
lactation consultant is probably associated with higher rates of any 
breastfeeding at 6 months (summary ES 1.43, 95% CI 1.07 to 1.91; 3 studies) but 
not at 1 month or 3 months (all moderate SoE). Lactation consultant care may not 
be associated with rates of exclusive breastfeeding at 1 or 3 months (moderate 
SoE). Regarding coordination/management of care, provision of reminders for 
testing is probably associated with greater adherence to oral glucose tolerance 
testing up to 1 year postpartum but not random glucose testing or hemoglobin A1c 
testing (moderate SoE). Regarding use of information or communication technology 
(IT; 8 studies), IT use for breastfeeding care is probably associated with 
comparable rates of any breastfeeding at 3 months and 6 months and of exclusive 
breastfeeding at 3 months (all moderate SoE). Because of sparse evidence, 
inconsistent results, and/or the lack of reporting of prioritized outcomes, no 
conclusions related to interventions targeting healthcare providers are feasible 
(4 studies). KQ 2: Regarding health insurance (28 studies), more comprehensive 
health insurance is probably associated with greater attendance at postpartum 
visits (moderate SoE) and may be associated with fewer preventable readmissions 
and emergency room visits (low SoE).
CONCLUSION: Most studies included in this systematic review enrolled 
predominantly healthy postpartum individuals. Researchers should therefore 
design studies that, either entirely or in part, enroll individuals at high risk 
of postpartum complications due to chronic conditions, pregnancy-related 
conditions, or incident or newly diagnosed conditions. New high-quality research 
is needed, especially for interventions targeting healthcare providers and the 
impact of more comprehensive or extended health insurance on postpartum health. 
Patient-reported outcomes, such as quality of life, should also be reported. 
Researchers should report separate data for various population subgroups, which 
could help close gaps in health outcomes among the races of postpartum 
individuals in the United States.

DOI: 10.23970/AHRQEPCCER261
PMID: 37315166


634. Food Res Int. 2023 Aug;170:112951. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2023.112951. Epub
2023  May 18.

The collagen market and knowledge, attitudes, and practices of Brazilian 
consumers regarding collagen ingestion.

Campos LD(1), Pereira ATSA(2), Cazarin CBB(3).

Author information:
(1)Universidade de Campinas, School of Food Engineering, Department of Food 
Science and Nutrition, Rua Monteiro Lobato, 80, Zip Code: 13083-862 Campinas/SP, 
Brazil. Electronic address: luana.diasc81@gmail.com.
(2)Universidade de Campinas, School of Food Engineering, Department of Food 
Science and Nutrition, Rua Monteiro Lobato, 80, Zip Code: 13083-862 Campinas/SP, 
Brazil.
(3)Universidade de Campinas, School of Food Engineering, Department of Food 
Science and Nutrition, Rua Monteiro Lobato, 80, Zip Code: 13083-862 Campinas/SP, 
Brazil. Electronic address: cbetim@unicamp.br.

Collagen is considered a nutraceutical, and its consumption has been expanding 
due to the increased life expectancy, rising per capita income, and increased 
consumer awareness of health care. This study aimed to evaluate consumers' 
perceptions, knowledge, attitudes, and practices about the consumption of 
collagen-based products by using an online questionnaire and to correlate them 
with socio-economic data. A market survey (pharmacy stores and online) was also 
conducted to evaluate the available products. In total, 275 participants 
answered the survey, 73.3% from the Southeast region, mostly female (84.0%). 
Most participants reported three months as the period of collagen intake 
(31.6%), and the consumption period was associated with the perception of the 
health benefits (p < 0.001). Furthermore, the participants' knowledge and 
perceptions regarding collagen intake are frequently associated with 
dermatological and orthopedic changes. Collagen-based products supplementation 
is a growing market with a broad target audience (genders, age groups, and 
socio-economic levels). The commercial presentation of collagen has been 
diversified over the years, and powder collagen is the most consumed (52.7%) and 
cheapest compared with capsules, pills, or gummies. The results of the present 
study demonstrate that most consumers of this type of supplement associate its 
benefits with aesthetic care such as skin, hair, and nails, although the 
scientific literature has shown its effects in treating osteoarticular diseases, 
for example. Undoubtedly, the correct dose prescription, treatment time, and 
choice of product presentation must be analyzed carefully, as they significantly 
impact treatment results.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2023.112951
PMID: 37316004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


635. Heart. 2023 Oct 12;109(21):1617-1623. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2023-322518.

Cost-effectiveness of a telemonitoring programme in patients with cardiovascular 
diseases compared with standard of care.

Ziegler A(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Öner A(6), Quadflieg G(7), Betschart RO(8), Thiéry 
A(8), Babel H(8), Mwambi HG(8)(2), Neumeyer H(7), Mackschin S(7), Hintz S(6), 
Mann M(6), Dittrich H(6), Schmidt C(6).

Author information:
(1)Cardio-CARE, Davos Wolfgang, Switzerland ziegler.lit@mailbox.org.
(2)School of Mathematics, Statistics and Computer Science, University of 
KwaZulu-Natal, Pietermaritzburg, South Africa.
(3)Department of Cardiology, University Heart and Vascular Center Hamburg, 
University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(4)Centre for Population Health Innovation (POINT), University Heart and 
Vascular Center Hamburg, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, 
Germany.
(5)Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Cardiology, Center for Internal Medicine, Universitätsmedizin 
Rostock, Rostock, Germany.
(7)Philips GmbH Market DACH, Hamburg, Germany.
(8)Cardio-CARE, Davos Wolfgang, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: The main aim of this work was to analyse the cost-effectiveness of 
an integrated care concept (NICC) that combines telemonitoring with the support 
of a care centre in addition to guideline therapy for patients. Secondary aims 
were to compare health utility and health-related quality of life (QoL) between 
NICC and standard of care (SoC).
METHODS: The randomised controlled CardioCare MV Trial compared NICC and SoC in 
patients from Mecklenburg-West Pomerania (Germany) with atrial fibrillation, 
heart failure or treatment-resistant hypertension. QoL was measured using the 
EQ-5D-5L at baseline, 6 months and 1 year follow-up. Quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs), EQ5D utility scores, Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) Scores and VAS 
adjusted life years (VAS-AL) were calculated. Cost data were obtained from 
health insurance companies, and the payer perspective was taken in health 
economic analyses. Quantile regression was used with adjustments for 
stratification variables.
RESULTS: The net benefit of NICC (QALY) was 0.031 (95% CI 0.012 to 0.050; 
p=0.001) in this trial involving 957 patients. EQ5D Index values, VAS-ALs and 
VAS were larger for NICC compared with SoC at 1 year follow-up (all p≤0.004). 
Direct cost per patient and year were €323 (CI €157 to €489) lower in the NICC 
group. When 2000 patients are served by the care centre, NICC is cost-effective 
if one is willing to pay €10 652 per QALY per year.
CONCLUSION: NICC was associated with higher QoL and health utility. The 
programme is cost-effective if one is willing to pay approximately €11 000 per 
QALY per year.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2023-322518
PMCID: PMC10579463
PMID: 37316165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: AZ is scientific director 
of the non-profit research organisation Cardio-CARE. He is listed as co-inventor 
of an international patent on the use of a computing device to estimate the 
probability of myocardial infarction (International Publication Number 
WO2022043229A1), and he is shareholder of the ART-EMIS Hamburg GmbH. AT was and 
HB and ROB are bioinformaticians at Cardio-CARE. HGM was visiting professor at 
Cardio-CARE. HN was and SM and GQ are employees of Philips GmbH Market DACH, 
Hamburg, Germany. GQ holds stocks of Royal Philips N.V. All other authors 
declare no competing interests.


636. Arch Osteoporos. 2023 Jun 15;18(1):81. doi: 10.1007/s11657-023-01263-5.

First Ecuadorian statement consensus for the evaluation and treatment of 
osteoporosis.

Rios C(1), Maldonado G(2), Vargas S(1), González J(1), Vera C(1), Zuñiga A(1), 
Martínez J(1), Castillo M(1), Jervis R(1), Ventura R(1), Guevara S(1), Torres 
G(1), Uguña F(1), Messina OD(3), Neyro JL(4), Fernández D(5), Guerrero R(6), 
Moreno M(1).

Author information:
(1)Ecuadorian Society of Rheumatology, Guayaquil, Ecuador.
(2)Loyola MacNeal Hospital, Berwyn, USA. genessis.maldonado@luhs.org.
(3)Rheumatology Department, Cosme Argerich Hospital, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(4)Obstetrics and Gynecology Department, Cruces University Hospital, Vasco 
Country University EHU-UPV, Baracaldo Bizkaia, Spain.
(5)Rheumatology Department, San Ignacio University Hospital, Bogota, Colombia.
(6)Loyola MacNeal Hospital, Berwyn, USA.

Comment in
    Arch Osteoporos. 2023 Jul 28;18(1):106.

Osteoporosis management has become more relevant as the life expectancy 
increases. In Ecuador, approximately 19% of adults over 65 years of age have 
been diagnosed with osteoporosis. There is no national consensus for the 
management and prevention of the disease being this proposal the first 
Ecuadorian consensus.
INTRODUCTION: In Ecuador, it is estimated that around 19% of adults over 65 
years of age have osteoporosis. Due to the increase in life expectancy in the 
world population, the evaluation and management of osteoporosis has become more 
relevant. Currently, there is no national consensus for the management and 
prevention of the disease. The Ecuadorian Society of Rheumatology presented the 
project for the elaboration of the first Ecuadorian consensus for the management 
and prevention of osteoporosis.
METHODS: A panel of experts in multiple areas and extensive experience was 
invited to participate. The consensus was carried out using the Delphi method. 
Six working dimensions were created: definition and epidemiology of 
osteoporosis, fracture risk prediction tools, non-pharmacological treatment, 
pharmacological treatment, calcium and vitamin D, and glucocorticoid-induced 
osteoporosis.
RESULTS: The first round was held in December 2021, followed by the second round 
in February 2022 and the third round in March 2022. The data was shared with the 
specialists at the end of each round. After three rounds of work, a consensus 
was reached for the management and prevention of osteoporosis.
CONCLUSION: This is the first Ecuadorian consensus for the management and 
treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis.

© 2023. International Osteoporosis Foundation and Bone Health and Osteoporosis 
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1007/s11657-023-01263-5
PMID: 37316765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. BMC Infect Dis. 2023 Jun 14;23(1):406. doi: 10.1186/s12879-023-08375-w.

Disease burden of tuberculosis and post-tuberculosis in Inner Mongolia, China, 
2016-2018 - based on the disease burden of post-TB caused by COPD.

Jing C(#)(1), Zheng H(#)(2), Wang X(3), Wang Y(2), Zhao Y(4), Liu S(1), Zhao 
J(1), Du Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Statistics, School of Public Health, Inner Mongolia 
Medical University, Jinshan Development District, Hohhot, Inner Mongolia, 
010110, China.
(2)Department of Child and Adolescent Health and Health Education, School of 
Public Health, Inner Mongolia Medical University, Hohhot, Inner Mongolia, 
010110, China.
(3)Center for Data Science in Health and Medicine, School of Public Health, 
Inner Mongolia Medical University, Jinshan Development District, Hohhot, Inner 
Mongolia, 010110, China. wangxm_zsu@163.com.
(4)Center for Data Science in Health and Medicine, School of Public Health, 
Inner Mongolia Medical University, Jinshan Development District, Hohhot, Inner 
Mongolia, 010110, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Tuberculosis (TB) remains one of the most serious infectious 
diseases worldwide. China has the second highest TB burden globally, but 
existing studies have mostly neglected the post-tuberculosis (post-TB) disease 
burden. This study estimated the disease burden of TB and post-TB in Inner 
Mongolia, China, from 2016 to 2018.
METHODS: Population data were collected from TB Information Management System. 
Post-TB disease burden was defined as the burden caused by Chronic Obstructive 
Pulmonary Disease (COPD) occurring after patients with TB were cured. To 
estimate the incidence rate of TB, standardized mortality rate, life expectancy, 
and cause eliminated life expectancy, using descriptive epidemiological, 
abridged life table and cause eliminated life table. On this basis, the 
Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALY), Years Lived with Disability (YLD) and 
Years of Life Lost (YLL) due to TB were further be estimated. The data were 
analyzed using Excel 2016 and SPSS 26.0. Joinpoint regression models were used 
to estimate the time and age trends of the disease burden of TB and post-TB.
RESULTS: The TB incidence in 2016, 2017, and 2018 was 41.65, 44.30, and 
55.63/100,000, respectively. The standardized mortality in the same period was 
0.58, 0.65, and 1.08/100,000, respectively. From 2016 to 2018, the total DALYs 
of TB and post-TB were 5923.33, 6258.03, and 8194.38 person-years, and the DALYs 
of post-TB from 2016 to 2018 were 1555.89, 1663.33, and 2042.43 person-years. 
Joinpoint regression showed that the DALYs rate increased yearly from 2016 to 
2018, and the rate of males was higher than that of females. TB and post-TB 
DALYs rates showed a rising tendency with increasing age (AAPC values were 
149.6% and 157.0%, respectively, P < 0.05), which was higher in the working-age 
population and elderly.
CONCLUSION: The disease burden of TB and post-TB was heavy and increased year by 
year in Inner Mongolia from 2016 to 2018. Compared with the youngster and 
females, working-age population and the elderly and males had a higher disease 
burden. Policymakers should be paid more attention to the patients' sustained 
lung injury after TB cured. There is a pressing need to identify more effective 
measures for reducing the burden of TB and post-TB of people, to improve their 
health and well-being.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-023-08375-w
PMCID: PMC10265833
PMID: 37316793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


638. Neurol Res Pract. 2023 Jun 15;5(1):25. doi: 10.1186/s42466-023-00251-x.

Guideline "Motor neuron diseases" of the German Society of Neurology (Deutsche 
Gesellschaft für Neurologie).

Petri S(1), Grehl T(2), Grosskreutz J(3), Hecht M(4), Hermann A(5), Jesse S(6), 
Lingor P(7), Löscher W(8)(9), Maier A(10), Schoser B(11), Weber M(12)(13), 
Ludolph AC(6).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Neurologie, Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, Carl-Neuberg-Str. 1, 
30625, Hannover, Germany. petri.susanne@mh-hannover.de.
(2)Neurologie, Alfried-Krupp-Krankenhaus, Essen, Germany.
(3)Neurologie, Universitätsklinikum Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany.
(4)Neurologie, Bezirkskrankenhaus Kaufbeuren, Kaufbeuren, Germany.
(5)Neurologie, Universitätsmedizin Rostock, Rostock, Germany.
(6)Neurologie, Universität Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(7)Neurologie, TU München, Munich, Germany.
(8)Neurologie, Medizinische Universität Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria.
(9)ÖGN, Vienna, Austria.
(10)Neurologie, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(11)Neurologie, LMU Klinikum München, Munich, Germany.
(12)Muskelzentrum, Kantonspital St. Gallen, St. Gallen, Switzerland.
(13)SNG, St. Gallen, Switzerland.

INTRODUCTION: In 2021, the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Neurology published a new 
guideline on diagnosis and therapy of motor neuron disorders. Motor neuron 
disorders affect upper motor neurons in the primary motor cortex and/or lower 
motor neurons in the brain stem and spinal cord. The most frequent motor neuron 
disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a rapidly progressive disease 
with an average life expectancy of 2-4 years with a yearly incidence of 
3.1/100,000 in Central Europe (Rosenbohm et al. in J Neurol 264(4):749-757, 
2017. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00415-017-8413-3 ). It is considered a rare 
disease mainly due to its low prevalence as a consequence of short disease 
duration.
RECOMMENDATIONS: These guidelines comprise recommendations regarding 
differential diagnosis, neuroprotective therapies and multidisciplinary 
palliative care including management of respiration and nutrition as well as 
provision of assistive devices and end-of-life situations.
CONCLUSION: Diagnostic and therapeutic guidelines are necessary due the 
comparatively high number of cases and the aggressive disease course. Given the 
low prevalence and the severe impairment of patients, it is often impossible to 
generate evidence-based data so that ALS guidelines are partially dependent on 
expert opinion.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s42466-023-00251-x
PMCID: PMC10268388
PMID: 37316950

Conflict of interest statement: No competing interests regarding the contents. 
All participants in the guideline have submitted their declarations of interest 
(AWMF form for the declaration of interests in the context of guideline 
projects) to the Editorial Office for Guidelines of the DGN. The evaluation of 
the declarations of interest with regard to thematic relevance to the guideline 
was carried out by a member of the DGN guideline commission. A detailed listing 
is available at https://dgn.org/leitlinien/.


639. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2023 Jun;27(11):5159-5166. doi: 
10.26355/eurrev_202306_32633.

Effect of frailty on major bleeding in octogenarian patients undergoing 
percutaneous coronary intervention.

Özbek K(1), Balun A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University of Health Sciences Gülhane Medicine 
School, Ankara City Hospital, Ankara, Turkey. keremozbek@dr.com.

OBJECTIVE: There has been an increase in the number of percutaneous coronary 
intervention (PCI) procedures performed in octogenarian patients due to 
increased life expectancy and developments in modern medicine. Frailty is 
associated with the aging process, gradual loss of multiple body functions, and 
poor health outcomes. We examined the association between frailty and major 
bleeding in octogenarian patients undergoing PCI.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed the records of two local 
research hospitals in Turkey. In total, 244 patients were enrolled in this 
study. Patients were divided into two groups based on their Clinical Frailty 
Scale (CFS) score. The non-frail group included patients with CFS scores of 1 
(very fit) to 4 (living with very mild frailty), while the frail group included 
those with CFS scores of 5 (living with mild frailty) to 9 (terminally ill).
RESULTS: Of the 244 patients, 131 were classified into the non-frail group and 
113 into the frail group. Ticagrelor use was significantly more common in the 
non-frail group (31.3% vs. 20.4%, p=0.036). Major bleeding was more common in 
the frail than non-frail group (20.4% vs. 6.1%, p<0.001). The rates of stroke 
and all-cause death were higher in the frail than in non-frail group (stroke 
15.9% vs. 3.8%, p<0.001, as well as all-cause mortality rate (27.4% vs. 2.3%, 
p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Frailty is an independent predictor of major bleeding in patients 
undergoing PCI for acute coronary syndrome. Use of the P2Y12 inhibitor 
ticagrelor increases the risk of major bleeding in frail patients.

DOI: 10.26355/eurrev_202306_32633
PMID: 37318490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Environ Geochem Health. 2023 Aug;45(8):6455-6470. doi: 
10.1007/s10653-023-01654-0. Epub 2023 Jun 15.

Assessment of radiation hazard indices due to naturally occurring long-life 
radionuclides in the coastal area of Barra de Valizas, Uruguay.

Noguera A(1), Bentos Pereira H(2), Fornaro L(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Desarrollo Tecnológico, Grupo de Desarrollo de Materiales y 
Estudios Ambientales, Centro Universitario Regional del Este, Universidad de la 
República, Ruta 9 y Ruta 15, 27000, Rocha, Uruguay. anoguera@cure.edu.uy.
(2)Departamento de Desarrollo Tecnológico, Grupo de Desarrollo de Materiales y 
Estudios Ambientales, Centro Universitario Regional del Este, Universidad de la 
República, Ruta 9 y Ruta 15, 27000, Rocha, Uruguay.

The Uruguayan east coast has several mineral resources, which include black sand 
ores in the Barra de Valizas-Aguas Dulces area. Cancer in Uruguay shows 
non-homogeneous geographical distribution, with the highest standardized 
mortality ratio (SMR) in the northeast and east region, which includes the 
aforementioned area and the town of Barra de Valizas. The activity concentration 
of natural radionuclides (226Ra, 232Th and 40 K) in Barra de Valizas´soil was 
determined by gamma spectrometry in order to evaluate the radiological hazard 
for inhabitants and tourists. The outdoor annual effective dose (AEDE), excess 
lifetime cancer risk (ELCR), and annual gonadal dose equivalent (AGDE) were 
evaluated for inhabitants with a life expectancy of 77.7 years, a 0.2 and 0.5 
occupancy factor, and using the conversion coefficients recommended by United 
Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation (UNSCEAR). The 
annual effective dose was also evaluated for both summer and fortnight tourists. 
The radiological hazard indices for Barra de Valizas inhabitants are higher than 
the worldwide mean and recommended values. This may contribute to Rocha's higher 
SRM value, although a direct correlation cannot be assured with the 
epidemiological information currently available. Social, medical and 
anthropological studies will be carried out in future to provide data and verify 
this correlation.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s10653-023-01654-0
PMID: 37318690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2023 Oct;37(10):2047-2055. doi:
10.1111/jdv.19254.  Epub 2023 Jul 17.

Abrocitinib effect on patient-reported outcomes in patients with 
moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis: Results from phase 3 studies, including 
the long-term extension JADE EXTEND study.

Reich K(1)(2), Silverberg JI(3), Papp KA(4)(5), Deleuran M(6), Katoh N(7), 
Strober B(8)(9), Beck LA(10), de Bruin-Weller M(11), Werfel T(12), Zhang F(13), 
Biswas P(14), DiBonaventura MD(14), Chan G(13), Farooqui SA(15), Kerkmann U(16), 
Clibborn C(17).

Author information:
(1)University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(2)Moonlake Immunotherapeutics AG, Zug, Switzerland.
(3)The George Washington University School of Medicine & Health Sciences, 
Washington, DC, USA.
(4)Alliance Clinical Trials and Probity Medical Research, Waterloo, Ontario, 
