investigate: Charlson Comorbidity Index, autonomy (Barthel Index), use of 
walking aids (Koval Grade), memory quality or dementia (Mental Score), 
subsequent hospitalizations for surgical operations relating to the operated 
hip.
RESULTS: The average time from trauma to surgery was 1 ± 0.7 days. The surgical 
time was 78.9 ± 21.9 minutes. At least one cerclage was used in 73.3% of 
patients. 87.5% of patients were verticalized on the first day. The average 
hospitalization time was 5.5 ± 2.9 days. During follow-up 20 deaths occurred, 
with a distance to surgery of 6.6 ± 7.2 (range 0.3-22.7) months. Six months 
after surgery, out of 86 patients, 12 deaths occurred, corresponding to 13.95%. 
12 months after surgery, out of 57 patients, 15 deaths occurred, corresponding 
to 26.31%.
CONCLUSIONS: Long stemmed bipolar hemiarthroplasty following intertrochanteric 
fracture can be considered a safe procedure, especially in patients over 80 with 
associated comorbidities and short life expectancy.

IJBT Copyright © 2023.

PMCID: PMC10349322
PMID: 37455800

Conflict of interest statement: None.


68. Int J Burns Trauma. 2023 Jun 15;13(3):142-148. eCollection 2023.

The impact of COVID-19 lockdown on the clinical and radiological outcomes of 
both-bone forearm fractures treated by compression plating at a tertiary care 
centre in India: a retrospective study.

Sahoo DR(1)(2), Santoshi JA(2), Behera P(2), Jain M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, AIIMS Bhubaneswar, Odisha 751019, India.
(2)Department of Orthopedics, AIIMS Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 462020, India.

BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic has affected everyone's life. In India, the 
nationwide lockdown was enforced from March 25, 2020. It has significantly 
affected the healthcare delivery system. Both-bone forearm (BBFA) fractures are 
commonly encountered as an emergency. Surgical management with plate fixation is 
often the primary mode of management in adults and adolescents. During the first 
wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, follow-up of patients with BBFA fractures who had 
undergone surgery before the lockdown was severely affected. To understand the 
effect of lack of regular follow-up on the outcome of BBFA fracture patients, in 
this study, we assessed their radiological, functional, and clinical outcomes at 
least 12 months after surgery. This study examined if a lack of routine 
follow-ups in surgically treated BBFA fracture patients has any impact on their 
short-term outcomes.
METHODS: We included 30 patients with BBFA fractures who were operated prior to 
the COVID-19 lockdown and assessed their radiological, functional, and clinical 
outcomes 12 months after surgery. Quick Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and 
Hand (QuickDASH) score, Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation (PRWE) score, Grace and 
Eversmann's score, and Mayo Elbow Performance Index (MEPI) score were assessed 
subjectively. Fracture site tenderness, and wrist, forearm, elbow, and grip 
strength range of motion (ROM) were objectively evaluated. Radiological union 
was recorded using standard forearm anteroposterior and lateral radiography.
RESULTS: At follow-up, 28 patients had union at the fracture site, and two 
patients had a nonunion. A significant reduction was observed in the mean ROM of 
the injured forearm compared with the uninjured forearm in supination (17.76% 
less), pronation (31.4% less), dorsiflexion (32% less), palmar-flexion (24.6% 
less), elbow flexion-extension arc (2.5% less), and grip strength (18% less). 
The percentage reduction in pronation and dorsiflexion was higher than that in 
supination and palmar-flexion, respectively. Grace and Eversmann's score was 
excellent in 16 patients, good in 4, acceptable in 7, and poor in 3 patients. 
The mean QuickDASH score was 6 ± 6.6. The mean PRWE and MEPI scores were 7 ± 4.5 
and 87.16, respectively. The MEPI score was excellent in 21 patients, good in 6, 
fair in 2, and poor in 1 patient.
CONCLUSION: The clinical, functional, and radiological outcomes of adult 
patients with BBFA fractures who were treated with compression plating were 
satisfactory. Inadequate follow-up during the COVID-19 first wave in India had 
minimal to no effect on their short-term outcomes.

IJBT Copyright © 2023.

PMCID: PMC10349326
PMID: 37455805

Conflict of interest statement: None.


69. Mater Today Bio. 2023 Jul 1;21:100709. doi: 10.1016/j.mtbio.2023.100709. 
eCollection 2023 Aug.

Biomimetic tri-layered small-diameter vascular grafts with decellularized 
extracellular matrix promoting vascular regeneration and inhibiting thrombosis 
with the salidroside.

Shi J(1)(2)(3), Teng Y(1)(2)(3), Li D(1)(2)(3), He J(4), Midgley AC(5), Guo 
X(1)(2)(3), Wang X(1)(2)(3), Yang X(1)(2)(3), Wang S(5), Feng Y(6)(7)(8), Lv 
Q(1)(2)(3), Hou S(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Wenzhou Safety (Emergency) Institute of Tianjin University, Wenzhou, 325026, 
China.
(2)Institute of Disaster and Emergency Medicine, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 
300072, China.
(3)Key Laboratory for Disaster Medicine Technology, Tianjin, 300072, China.
(4)Vascular Surgery, Tianjin First Central Hospital, Tianjin, 300192, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Bioactive Materials for the Ministry of Education, College 
of Life Sciences, Nankai University, Tianjin, 300071, China.
(6)School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 
300072, China.
(7)Frontiers Science Center for Synthetic Biology, Tianjin University, 30072, 
China.
(8)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering (MOE), Tianjin University, 30072, 
China.

Small-diameter vascular grafts (SDVGs) are urgently required for clinical 
applications. Constructing vascular grafts mimicking the defining features of 
native arteries is a promising strategy. Here, we constructed a tri-layered 
vascular graft with a native artery decellularized extracellular matrix (dECM) 
mimicking the component of arteries. The porcine thoracic aorta was 
decellularized and milled into dECM powders from the differential layers. The 
intima and media dECM powders were blended with poly (L-lactide-co-caprolactone) 
(PLCL) as the inner and middle layers of electrospun vascular grafts, 
respectively. Pure PLCL was electrospun as a strengthening sheath for the outer 
layer. Salidroside was loaded into the inner layer of vascular grafts to inhibit 
thrombus formation. In vitro studies demonstrated that dECM provided a bioactive 
milieu for human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) extension adhesion, 
proliferation, migration, and tube-forming. The in vivo studies showed that the 
addition of dECM could promote endothelialization, smooth muscle regeneration, 
and extracellular matrix deposition. The salidroside could inhibit thrombosis. 
Our study mimicked the component of the native artery and combined it with the 
advantages of synthetic polymer and dECM which provided a promising strategy for 
the design and construction of SDVGs.

© 2023 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.mtbio.2023.100709
PMCID: PMC10339197
PMID: 37455822

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


70. Heliyon. 2023 Jun 26;9(7):e17545. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e17545. 
eCollection 2023 Jul.

Government sectoral spending and human development in Nigeria: Is there a link?

Onabote AA(1), Ohwofasa BO(2), Ogunjumo RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Landmark University, Omu-Aran, Nigeria.
(2)Department of Social Sciences, Delta State Polytechnic, Ogwashi-Ukwu, 
Nigeria.

The continuous increase in government expenditure in the last three decades 
without a commensurate improvement in all known indicators of development has 
generated heated debates among scholars as to the justification for the 
persistent rise in the annual expenditure of the government. Therefore, this 
study examined the effects of government sectoral spending on human development 
in Nigeria using annual data spanning the period 1986-2021. This study 
contributed to the literature by examining the effects of government sectoral 
spending on human development using a robust human development index that 
captures the multifaceted state of economic development in terms of educational 
attainment, life expectancy and per capita income, unlike previous studies that 
concentrated on aggregate government spending and used the gross domestic 
product as an indicator of development. Surprisingly, however, results from the 
Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model employed indicated that both in the 
short and long run, there is no link between government sectoral spending and 
human development in Nigeria. Although, outcomes from ECMs suggest that 
government sectoral spending may affect human development in the long run.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e17545
PMCID: PMC10338293
PMID: 37455972

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


71. Heliyon. 2023 Jun 28;9(7):e17710. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e17710. 
eCollection 2023 Jul.

Cardiac imaging for the prediction of sudden cardiac arrest in patients with 
heart failure.

De Lio F(1), Andreis A(1), De Lio G(1), Bellettini M(1), Pidello S(1), Raineri 
C(1), Gallone G(1), Alunni G(1), Frea S(1), Imazio M(2), Castagno D(1), De 
Ferrari GM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Città della Salute e della Scienza di Torino 
University Hospital, University of Torino, Turin, Italy.
(2)Cardiology Unit, Cardiothoracic Department, University Hospital "Santa Maria 
della Misericordia", Udine, Italy.

The identification of heart failure (HF) patients at risk for arrhythmic sudden 
cardiac arrest (SCA) is a major challenge in the cardiovascular field. In 
addition to optimal medical treatment for HF, implantable cardioverter 
defibrillator (ICD) is currently recommended to prevent SCA in patients with 
reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). The indication for an ICD 
implantation, in addition to HF etiology, New York Health Association (NYHA) 
class and life expectancy, mainly depends on LVEF value at echocardiography. 
However, the actual role of LVEF in the prediction of SCA has recently been 
debated, while newer multimodality imaging techniques with increased prognostic 
accuracy have been developed. Speckle tracking imaging allows the quantification 
of mechanical dispersion, a marker of electrophysiological heterogeneity 
predisposing to malignant arrhythmias, while advanced cardiac magnetic resonance 
techniques such as myocardial T1-mapping and extracellular volume fraction 
assessment allow the evaluation of interstitial diffuse fibrosis. Nuclear 
imaging is helpful for the appraisal of sympathetic nervous system dysfunction, 
while newer computed tomography techniques assessing myocardial delayed 
enhancement allow the identification of focal myocardial scar. This review will 
focus on the most modern advances in the field of cardiovascular imaging along 
with its applications for the prediction of SCA in patients with HF. Modern 
artificial intelligence applications in cardiovascular imaging will also be 
discussed.

© 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e17710
PMCID: PMC10338975
PMID: 37456051

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


72. Heart Int. 2023 Jun 22;17(1):13-18. doi: 10.17925/HI.2023.17.1.13.
eCollection  2023.

Balloon Aortic Valvuloplasty in the Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation Era.

Samaja GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Interventional Cardiology Department, Policlinico Bancario Buenos Aires, 
Buenos Aires, Argentina.

As the population continues to grow, and life expectancy has increased, aortic 
stenosis (AS) has become the most common valvular disease requiring surgical 
treatment. The evolution of valve replacement therapies has progressed 
significantly since 1960. In the last 20 years, transcatheter aortic valve 
implantation (TAVI) has been a game changer, and has potential to become the 
standard of care. Despite uncertain prognosis benefits, balloon aortic 
valvuloplasty (BAV) can be useful in a broad range of patients with AS, as well 
as being a bridging therapy to valve replacement, or as a destination therapy, 
besides its role in TAVI procedures. This review describes the contemporary role 
of BAV in AS treatment, and focuses on technical improvements that reframe BAV 
as an effective tool in a variety of clinical scenarios. One of these 
improvements is transradial BAV, either with the conventional approach of BAV or 
applying the bilateral technique with two balloons.

© Touch Medical Media 2023.

DOI: 10.17925/HI.2023.17.1.13
PMCID: PMC10339465
PMID: 37456354

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Gustavo Arturo Samaja has no 
financial or non-financial relationships or activities to declare in relation to 
this article.


73. SSM Popul Health. 2023 Jun 22;23:101457. doi: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2023.101457. 
eCollection 2023 Sep.

Nativity in the healthy migrant effect: Evidence from Australia.

Huang G(1), Guo F(2), Cheng Z(2)(3), Liu L(4), Zimmermann KF(5)(6), Taksa L(7), 
Tani M(8), Franklin M(7).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Systems and Safety Research, Macquarie University, 
Australia.
(2)Department of Management, Macquarie Business School, Macquarie University, 
Australia.
(3)Social Policy Research Centre, University of New South Wales, Australia.
(4)Department of Population and Public Health Sciences, Keck School of Medicine, 
University of Southern California, USA.
(5)Global Labor Organization (GLO), Germany.
(6)UNU-MERIT, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(7)Deakin University Business School, Deakin University, Australia.
(8)School of Business, University of New South Wales, Australia.

Migrant health constitutes an important public health issue; however, variations 
in the 'healthy migrant effect' among migrants of different nativity are not 
adequately understood. To fill this gap, this study examines the life expectancy 
(LE) and healthy life expectancy (HLE) of the Australian-born population and 
eight major migrant groups in Australia for 2006, 2011 and 2016. The results 
show that compared with the Australian-born population, the foreign-born 
population overall had a higher LE and HLE but a lower HLE/LE ratio. 
Considerable variations in migrant health status according to nativity were also 
observed. Specifically, migrants from South Africa, Britain and Germany 
exhibited a similar or higher LE, HLE and HLE/LE ratio, while those from China, 
India, Italy and Greece had a higher LE but a significantly lower HLE/LE ratio 
compared with the Australian-born population. Lebanese migrants were the only 
group who experienced an unchanging LE and a declining HLE from 2006 to 2016. 
These notable differences in migrants' health outcomes with respect to nativity 
may be explained by the sociocultural differences between the origin and host 
countries and the different extents of migration selectivity of different 
migrant groups. Targeted countermeasures such as improving the quality of life 
of migrants from culturally diverse backgrounds or with negative migration 
experiences are suggested.

© 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2023.101457
PMCID: PMC10338376
PMID: 37456617

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests to 
declare that are relevant to the content of this article.


74. Cancer Drug Resist. 2023 Jun 27;6(2):416-429. doi: 10.20517/cdr.2023.02. 
eCollection 2023.

Mechanisms and clinical implications in renal carcinoma resistance: narrative 
review of immune checkpoint inhibitors.

Samnani S(1), Sachedina F(1), Gupta M(2), Guo E(2), Navani V(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, The University of Calgary, Calgary T2N 1N4, 
Canada.
(2)Cumming School of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary T2N 4N1, Canada.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Tom Baker Cancer Centre, Calgary T2N 4N2, 
Canada.

Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the most common histological subtype 
of renal cell carcinoma. The prognosis for patients with ccRCC has improved over 
recent years with the use of combination therapies with an anti-programmed 
death-1 (PD-1) backbone. This has enhanced the quality of life and life 
expectancy of patients with this disease. Unfortunately, not all patients 
benefit; eventually, most patients will develop resistance to therapy and 
progress. Recent molecular, biochemical, and immunological research has 
extensively researched anti-angiogenic and immune-based treatment resistance 
mechanisms. This analysis offers an overview of the principles underpinning the 
resistance pathways related to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). 
Additionally, novel approaches to overcome resistance that may be considered for 
the trial context are discussed.

© The Author(s) 2023.

DOI: 10.20517/cdr.2023.02
PMCID: PMC10344724
PMID: 37457122

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declared that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


75. Eur Heart J Open. 2023 Jul 13;3(4):oead067. doi: 10.1093/ehjopen/oead067. 
eCollection 2023 Jul.

Life expectancy and end-of-life communication in adult patients with congenital 
heart disease, 40-53 years after surgery.

Pelosi C(1), Kauling RM(1), Cuypers JAAE(1), Utens EMWJ(2)(3), van den Bosch 
AE(1), van der Heide A(4), Legerstee JS(3), Roos-Hesselink JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Erasmus MC, P.O. Box 2040, Rotterdam 3000 CA, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Academic Center for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Levvel, Meibergdreef 5, 
1105 AZ, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry/Psychology, Erasmus Medical 
Center-Sophia Children's Hospital, Wytemaweg 80, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, Dr. Molewaterplein 40, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

AIMS: Although survival of patients with congenital heart disease (CHD) improved 
significantly over time, life expectancy is still not normal. We aimed to 
investigate how adult patients, their partners, and treating cardiologists 
estimated the individual life expectancy of CHD patients. Furthermore, 
preferences regarding end-of-life (EOL) communication were investigated.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In this study, we included 202 patients (age: 50 ± 5) who 
were operated in childhood (<15 years old) between 1968 and 1980 for one of the 
following diagnoses: atrial septal defect, ventricular septal defect, pulmonary 
stenosis, tetralogy of Fallot, or transposition of the great arteries. A 
specific questionnaire was administered to both the patients and their partners, 
exploring their perceived life expectancy and EOL wishes. Two cardiologists 
independently assessed the life expectancy of each patient. Most adults with CHD 
believed their life expectancy to be normal. However, significant differences 
were found between estimated life expectancy by the cardiologist and patients 
(female: P = 0.001, male: P = 0.002) with moderate/severe defects, as well as 
for males with mild defects (P = 0.011). Regarding EOL communication, 85.1% of 
the patients reported that they never discussed EOL with a healthcare 
professional. Compared with patients with mild CHD, significantly more patients 
with moderate/severe defect discussed EOL with a physician (P = 0.011). The wish 
to discuss EOL with the cardiologist was reported by 49.3% of the patients and 
41.7% of their partners.
CONCLUSION: Adult patients, especially with moderate/severe CHD, perceived their 
life expectancy as normal, whereas cardiologists had a more pessimistic view 
than their patients. Increased attention is warranted for discussions on life 
expectancy and EOL to improve patient-tailored care.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1093/ehjopen/oead067
PMCID: PMC10342419
PMID: 37457543

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared.


76. Pharmacoeconomics. 2023 Oct;41(10):1175-1182. doi:
10.1007/s40273-023-01302-6.  Epub 2023 Jul 17.

An Alternative Measure of Health for Value Assessment: The Equal Value 
Life-Year.

Campbell JD(1), Whittington MD(2), Pearson SD(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical and Economic Review, 14 Beacon Street, 8th Floor, 
Boston, MA, 02108, USA. jcampbell@icer.org.
(2)Institute for Clinical and Economic Review, 14 Beacon Street, 8th Floor, 
Boston, MA, 02108, USA.

The quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) is an international standard in 
cost-effectiveness analysis. A known concern arises from the relatively lower 
QALY gains attributed to treatments that extend the life of individuals with 
chronic disability. We analyze here the advantages and disadvantages of the 
equal value life-year (evLY) as an alternative or a complementary measure to the 
QALY, and share learned experiences from using this measure in health technology 
assessments. We present the conceptual rationale for the evLY, describe how it 
is estimated, and assess the differences in results between analyses based on 
the evLY and the QALY. We share a how-to guide in estimating the evLY using a 
downloadable tool and summarize our empirical experience using this measure. 
Incremental evLYs are feasible and address concerns regarding the risk for a 
cost-effectiveness analysis to undervalue treatments for people with chronic 
disabilities. Based on our set of analyses using the evLY, a threshold of 
$84,000 per evLY gained would be needed to maintain alignment with a threshold 
of $100,000 per added QALY. The evLY is a measure of health gain that can be 
used as an alternative or a complement to the QALY to address concerns related 
to undervaluing treatments that extend the life of individuals with serious 
illness or chronic disability. We recommend that it be reported within all 
cost-effectiveness analyses but may have special relevance in the current 
political environment in the USA, where use of the QALY is often challenged or 
prohibited.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-023-01302-6
PMID: 37458912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Blood Adv. 2023 Oct 10;7(19):5890-5897. doi:
10.1182/bloodadvances.2022009318.

Long-term sutimlimab improves quality of life for patients with cold agglutinin 
disease: CARDINAL 2-year follow-up.

Röth A(1), Broome CM(2), Barcellini W(3), Tvedt THA(4), Miyakawa Y(5), D'Sa 
S(6), Cella D(7), Bozzi S(8), Jayawardene D(9), Yoo R(9), Shafer F(9), Wardęcki 
M(10), Weitz IC(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Stem Cell Transplantation, West German Cancer 
Center, University Hospital Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(2)Division of Hematology, MedStar Georgetown University Hospital, Washington, 
DC.
(3)Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Milan, Italy.
(4)Department of Medicine, Section for Hematology, Haukeland University 
Hospital, Bergen, Norway.
(5)Department of Hematology, Saitama Medical University Hospital, Saitama, 
Japan.
(6)UCLH Centre for Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia and Related Conditions, 
University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, London, United 
Kingdom.
(7)Department of Medical Social Sciences, Center for Patient-Centered Outcomes, 
Institute for Public Health and Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Northwestern University, Chicago, IL.
(8)Sanofi, Chilly-Mazarin, France.
(9)Sanofi, Cambridge, MA.
(10)Sanofi, Warszawa, Poland.
(11)Jane Anne Nohl Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, University of 
Southern California-Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA.

Cold agglutinin disease (CAD) is a rare form of autoimmune hemolytic anemia with 
a substantial burden on patient's quality of life. CARDINAL was a 2-part, 
open-label, single-arm, multicenter phase 3 study evaluating the C1s inhibitor, 
sutimlimab, for treatment of CAD. Part A consisted of the pivotal study phase, 
with the part B extension phase assessing long-term safety and durability of 
response including patient-reported outcomes, which is the focus of this report. 
Altogether, 22 patients continued from part A to part B, majority female (68.2%) 
with a median age of 71.5 years (range, 55-85). Throughout treatment, score 
improvement on the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy 
(FACIT)-Fatigue scale exceeded a predefined, group-level clinically important 
change of ≥5 points vs baseline, with a mean (standard error [SE]) change of 
11.7 (3.7) points at week 135. The 12-Item Short Form Health Survey physical and 
mental component scores remained above baseline, with week 123 mean change (SE) 
exceeding clinically important changes of 3.9 for physical and 2.8 for mental 
component scores at 4.7 (2.8) and 3.8 (5.7) points, respectively. EuroQol Visual 
Analogue Scale, scoring patients' self-rated health, also remained above 
baseline with a change of 17.1 (5.6) points at week 135. Patient Global 
Impression of (fatigue) Severity improved vs baseline, corroborating 
FACIT-Fatigue scores. Patient Global Impression of Change indicated a reduction 
in perceived disease burden. Data from CARDINAL part B support sustained 
alleviation of CAD disease burden after long-term treatment with sutimlimab over 
2 years, returning toward baseline upon treatment cessation. This trial was 
registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT03347396.

© 2023 by The American Society of Hematology. Licensed under Creative Commons 
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), 
permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2022009318
PMCID: PMC10558612
PMID: 37459203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest disclosure: A.R. has 
received research support from Roche, and received honoraria and provided 
consultancy to Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc, Amgen, Apellis Pharmaceuticals, 
Biocryst, Grifols, Kira, Novartis, Roche, Bioverativ (a Sanofi company), Sanofi, 
and Sobi. C.M.B. has received honoraria and/or research funding from Alexion 
Pharmaceuticals, Bioverativ, Cellphire, Incyte, Rigel, and Sanofi Genzyme. W.B. 
has received research support from Alexion Pharmaceuticals and Novartis; 
participated in advisory boards for Agios, Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc, 
Bioverativ, and Incyte; and has been an invited speaker for Alexion 
Pharmaceuticals Inc, and Novartis. T.H.A.T. has participated in advisory boards 
for Janssen, Novartis, and Sobi. S.D. has received grant funding, honoraria, 
and/or speaker’s fees from Janssen, BeiGene, and Sanofi. D.C. is President of 
FACIT.org, which distributes the FACIT-Fatigue Questionnaire. S.B., D.J., R.Y., 
F.S., and M.W. are employees of Sanofi and may hold shares and/or stock options 
in the company. The remaining authors declare no competing financial interests.


78. Circulation. 2023 Jul 18;148(3):268-277. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.123.064859.  Epub 2023 Jul 17.

Diagnosis and Management of Cardiovascular Risk in Individuals With Spinal Cord 
Injury: A Narrative Review.

Lagu T(1)(2)(3), Schroth SL(1)(4)(5), Haywood C(1)(6), Heinemann A(1)(7), 
Kessler A(1)(7)(8), Morse L(9), Khan SS(1)(3)(10), Kershaw KN(10), Nash MS(11).

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Services and Outcomes Research, Institute of Public Health 
and Medicine (T.L., S.L.S., C.H., A.H., A.K., S.S.K.), Northwestern Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Chicago, IL.
(2)Divisions of Hospital Medicine (T.L.), Northwestern Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL.
(3)Department of Medicine (T.L., S.S.K.), Northwestern Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL.
(4)Cardiology (S.S.K.), Northwestern Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL.
(5)Departments of Pathology (S.L.S.), Northwestern Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Chicago, IL.
(6)Medical Social Sciences (C.H.), Northwestern Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Chicago, IL.
(7)Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (A.H., A.K.), Northwestern Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Chicago, IL.
(8)Shirley Ryan Ability Lab, Chicago, IL (A.K., A.K.).
(9)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Minnesota Medical 
School, Minneapolis (L.M.).
(10)Preventive Medicine (S.S.K., K.N.K.), Northwestern Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL.
(11)Department of Neurological Surgery and the Miami Project to Cure Paralysis, 
University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, FL (M.S.N.).

More than 16 000 Americans experience spinal cord injury (SCI), resulting in 
chronic disability and other secondary sequelae, each year. Improvements in 
acute medical management have increased life expectancy. Cardiovascular disease 
is a leading cause of death in this population, and seems to occur earlier in 
individuals with SCI compared with the general population. People with SCI 
experience a high burden of traditional cardiovascular disease risk factors, 
including dyslipidemia and diabetes, and demonstrate anatomic, metabolic, and 
physiologic changes alongside stark reductions in physical activity after 
injury. They also experience multiple, complex barriers to care relating to 
disability and, in many cases, compounding effects of intersecting racial and 
socioeconomic health inequities. Given this combination of risk factors, some 
investigators have proposed that people with SCI are at increased risk for 
cardiovascular disease, beyond that associated with traditional risk factors, 
and SCI could be considered a risk-enhancing factor, analogous to other 
risk-enhancing factors defined by the 2019 American Heart Association/American 
College of Cardiology Primary Prevention Guidelines. However, more research is 
needed in this population to clarify the role of traditional risk factors, novel 
risk factors, health care access, social determinants of health, and 
intersectionality of disability, race, and socioeconomic status. There is an 
urgent need for primary care physicians and cardiologists to have awareness of 
the importance of timely diagnosis and management of cardiac risk factors for 
people with SCI.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.123.064859
PMCID: PMC10403284
PMID: 37459417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures None.


79. Ann Intern Med. 2023 Aug;176(8):1089-1091. doi: 10.7326/M23-0670. Epub 2023
Jul  18.

Modernizing the United States' Public Health Infrastructure: A Position Paper 
From the American College of Physicians.

Crowley R(1), Mathew S(2), Hilden D(3); Health and Public Policy Committee of 
the American College of Physicians.

Collaborators: Mathew S, Hilden D, Beachy M, Curry W, Hollon M, Jumper CA, 
Mellacheruvu P, Parshley MC, Sagar A, Slocum J, Tan M, Van Doren V, Yousef EA.

Author information:
(1)American College of Physicians, Washington, DC (R.C.).
(2)Atlantic Health System, Morristown, New Jersey (S.M.).
(3)Hennepin Healthcare, Minneapolis, Minnesota (D.H.).

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2023 Aug;176(8):1124-1126.

The United States' public health sector plays a crucial role in preventing 
illness and promoting health. Public health drove massive gains in life 
expectancy during the 20th century by supporting vaccination campaigns, 
promoting motor vehicle safety, and preventing and treating tobacco use. 
However, public health is underfunded and underappreciated, forcing the field to 
do more with fewer resources. In this position paper, the American College of 
Physicians (ACP) updates its 2012 policy recommendations on strengthening the 
nation's public health infrastructure. ACP calls for effective coordination of 
public health activities, robust and stable year-to-year funding of public 
health services, a renewed and well-supported public health workforce, action to 
address health-related dis- and misinformation, modernized public health data 
systems, and greater coordination between public health and medical sectors.

DOI: 10.7326/M23-0670
PMID: 37459617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Disclosures can be viewed at 
www.acponline.org/authors/icmje/ConflictOfInterestForms.do?msNum=M23-0670.


80. Clinics (Sao Paulo). 2023 Jul 15;78:100243. doi:
10.1016/j.clinsp.2023.100243.  eCollection 2023.

Role of cardiac β(1)-adrenergic and A(1)-adenosine receptors in severe 
arrhythmias related to Parkinson's disease.

Menezes-Rodrigues FS(1), de Oliveira MP(2), Araújo EA(3), Ferraz HB(4), 
Finsterer J(5), Olszewer E(6), Taha MO(7), Scorza CA(4), Caricati-Neto A(8), 
Scorza FA(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Autonomic and Cardiovascular Pharmacology, Department of 
Pharmacology, Escola Paulista de Medicina (EPM), Universidade Federal de São 
Paulo (UNIFESP), São Paulo, SP, Brazil; Neuroscience Discipline, Escola Paulista 
de Medicina (EPM), Universidade Federal de São Paulo (UNIFESP), São Paulo, SP, 
Brazil; PostGraduate Program in Cardiology, Escola Paulista de Medicina (EPM), 
Universidade Federal de São Paulo (UNIFESP), São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(2)School of Medicine, Centro Universitário UNIFAS, União Metropolitana para a 
Educação e Cultura, Lauro de Freitas, BA, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Autonomic and Cardiovascular Pharmacology, Department of 
Pharmacology, Escola Paulista de Medicina (EPM), Universidade Federal de São 
Paulo (UNIFESP), São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(4)Neuroscience Discipline, Escola Paulista de Medicina (EPM), Universidade 
Federal de São Paulo (UNIFESP), São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(5)Klinikum Landstrasse, Messerli Institute, Vienna, Austria.
(6)Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa e Estudo na Área de Saúde (FAPES), São Paulo, 
SP, Brazil.
(7)Department of Surgery, Escola Paulista de Medicina (EPM), Universidade 
Federal de São Paulo (UNIFESP), São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(8)Laboratory of Autonomic and Cardiovascular Pharmacology, Department of 
Pharmacology, Escola Paulista de Medicina (EPM), Universidade Federal de São 
Paulo (UNIFESP), São Paulo, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: 
caricatineto@gmail.com.

AIMS: Although reduced life expectancy in Parkinson's Disease (PD) patients has 
been related to severe cardiac arrhythmias due to autonomic dysfunctions, its 
molecular mechanisms remain unclear. To investigate the role of cardiac 
β1-Adrenergic (β1AR) and A1-Adenosine (A1R) receptors in these dysfunctions, the 
pharmacological effects of stimulation of cardiac β1AR (isoproterenol, ISO), in 
the absence and presence of cardiac β1AR (atenolol, AT) or A1R 
(1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentyl xanthine, DPCPX) blockade, on the arrhythmias 
induced by Ischemia/Reperfusion (CIR) in an animal PD model were studied.
METHODS: PD was produced by dopaminergic lesions (confirmed by 
immunohistochemistry analysis) caused by the injection of 6-hydroxydopamine 
(6-OHDA, 6 μg) in rat striatum. CIR was produced by a surgical interruption for 
10 min followed by reestablishment of blood circulation in the descendent left 
coronary artery. On the incidence of CIR-Induced Ventricular Arrhythmias (VA), 
Atrioventricular Block (AVB), and Lethality (LET), evaluated by 
Electrocardiogram (ECG) analysis, the effects of intravenous treatment with ISO, 
AT and DPCPX (before CIR) were studied.
RESULTS: VA, AVB and LET incidences were significantly higher in 6-OHDA (83%, 
92%, 100%, respectively) than in control rats (58%, 67% and 67%, respectively). 
ISO treatment significantly reduced these incidences in 6-OHDA (33%, 33% and 
42%, respectively) and control rats (25%, 25%, 33%, respectively), indicating 
that stimulation of cardiac β1AR induced cardioprotection. This response was 
prevented by pretreatment with AT and DPCPX, confirming the involvement of 
cardiac β1AR and A1R.
CONCLUSION: Pharmacological modulation of cardiac β1AR and A1R could be a 
potential therapeutic strategy to reduce severe arrhythmias and increase life 
expectancy in PD patients.

Copyright © 2023 HCFMUSP. Published by Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinsp.2023.100243
PMID: 37459671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest.


81. Vet Med Sci. 2023 Sep;9(5):2230-2237. doi: 10.1002/vms3.1203. Epub 2023 Jul
17.

24-Hour postnatal total serum protein concentration affects the health and 
growth performance of female Holstein dairy calves.

Aghakhani M(1), Shahraki ADF(1), Tabatabaei SN(1), Toghyani M(1), Moosavi-Zadeh 
E(1), Rafiee H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, Isfahan (Khorasgan) Branch, Islamic Azad 
University, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Animal Science Research Department, Isfahan Agriculture and Natural resources 
Research and Education Center, Agriculture Research, Education and Extension 
Organization (AREEO), Isfahan, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Total serum protein (TSP) within the first few days of life in the 
neonatal calf has predictive value for subsequent growth and production in 
calves before and after weaning.
INTRODUCTION: The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of TSP 
concentration 24-h after birth (24-h) on the performance and health of Holstein 
dairy calves.
METHODS: A total of 152 female calves were enrolled in this study. Blood samples 
were collected at 24-h, and TSP concentration was measured with a refractometer. 
Calves based on TSP concentration at 24-h were allocated into three groups: 1 - 
TSP ≤6.5 g/dL, 2 - TSP between 6.6 and 6.9 g/dL and 3 - TSP ≥7 g/dL. The 
weighing was done at birth and at days 30 and 60. Starter feed intake was 
recorded from day 3 to weaning, and body structures were measured at birth and 
weaning day.
RESULTS: Calves with TSP >6.5 g/dL had greater body weight at days 30 and 60 
than calves with TSP ≤6.5 g/dL. Average daily gain during 1-30 and 1-60 days of 
life increased as TSP increased. Furthermore, starter feed intake during the 
first 60 days of life was greater in calves with TSP ≥7 g/dL than calves with 
TSP <7 g/dL. The TSP concentration influenced structural growth, and >6.5 g/dL 
calves had greater heart girth, hip width and body length than ≤6.5 g/dL calves. 
Moreover, odds ratio for pneumonia decreased as TSP increased, whereas diarrhoea 
was unaffected.
CONCLUSION: The TSP at 24-h is an important contributing factor for the 
variation in growth performance and health of preweaning calves, and strategies 
to improve calf immunity and increase TSP lead to better animal health during 
preweaning period.
IMPLICATIONS: These results indicated that TSP ≥6.5 g/dL possibly was associated 
with greater performance, and this concentration could be considered a baseline 
for future analyses.

© 2023 The Authors. Veterinary Medicine and Science published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/vms3.1203
PMCID: PMC10508483
PMID: 37459751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are not any 
conflicts of interest.


82. J Hazard Mater. 2023 Sep 15;458:132058. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2023.132058.
Epub  2023 Jul 14.

Assessing the additional health burden of antibiotic resistant 
Enterobacteriaceae in surface waters through an integrated QMRA and DALY 
approach.

Goh SG(1), Haller L(1), Ng C(1), Charles FR(1), Jitxin L(1), Chen H(1), He Y(2), 
Gin KY(3).

Author information:
(1)NUS Environmental Research Institute, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore 117411, Singapore.
(2)School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, Shanghai 200240, China.
(3)NUS Environmental Research Institute, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore 117411, Singapore; Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering, 
National University of Singapore, Singapore 117576, Singapore. Electronic 
address: ceeginyh@nus.edu.sg.

Antibiotic resistant Enterobacteriaceae pose a significant threat to public 
health. However, limited studies have evaluated the health risks associated with 
exposure to antibiotic-resistant bacteria (ARB), especially in natural 
environments. While quantitative microbial risk assessment (QMRA) assesses 
microbial risks in terms of the probability of infection, it does not account 
for the severity of health outcomes. In this study, a QMRA-DALY model was 
developed to integrate QMRA with health burden (disability-adjusted life years 
(DALY)) from infections caused by ARB. The model considers uncertainties in 
probability of infection and health burden assessment using Monte Carlo 
simulations. The study collected antimicrobial resistance (AMR) surveillance 
data from surface waters with different land uses. Results revealed water bodies 
with agricultural land use to be the main AMR hotspots, with the highest 
additional health burden observed in infections caused by meropenem-resistant E. 
coli (∆DALY = 0.0105 DALY/event) compared to antibiotic-susceptible E. coli. The 
estimated ∆DALY for antibiotic-resistant K. pneumoniae was lower than for 
antibiotic-resistant E. coli (highest ∆DALY = 0.00048 DALY/event). The study 
highlights the need for better evaluation of AMR associated health burden, and 
effective measures to mitigate the risks associated with antibiotic-resistant 
bacteria in natural environments.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2023.132058
PMID: 37459761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


83. Lancet Healthy Longev. 2023 Aug;4(8):e399-e408. doi: 
10.1016/S2666-7568(23)00098-3. Epub 2023 Jul 14.

Delirium, neurofilament light chain, and progressive cognitive impairment: 
analysis of a prospective Norwegian population-based cohort.

Krogseth M(1), Davis D(2), Jackson TA(3), Zetterberg H(4), Watne LO(5), Lindberg 
M(6), Chitalu P(2), Tsui A(2), Selbæk G(7), Wyller TB(8).

Author information:
(1)Oslo Delirium Research Group, Department of Geriatric Medicine, Oslo 
University Hospital, Oslo, Norway; Old Age Psychiatry Research Network, Telemark 
Hospital Trust and Vestfold Hospital Trust and Department of Internal Medicine, 
Telemark Hospital Trust, Skien, Norway; Department of Nursing and Health 
Science, Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, University of South-Eastern 
Norway, Drammen, Norway. Electronic address: mkrogs@ous-hf.no.
(2)Medical Research Council Unit for Lifelong Health and Ageing at UCL, UCL 
Institute of Cardiovascular Science, University College London, London, UK.
(3)Institute of Inflammation and Ageing, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, 
UK.
(4)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, 
University College London, London, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, 
University College London, London, UK; Department of Psychiatry and 
Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
University of Gothenburg, Mölndal, Sweden; Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory, 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, Sweden; Hong Kong Center for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region, China; Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of 
Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
Madison, WI, USA.
(5)Oslo Delirium Research Group, Department of Geriatric Medicine, Oslo 
University Hospital, Oslo, Norway; Department of Geriatric Medicine, Akershus 
University Hospital, Lørenskog, Norway; Institute of Clinical Medicine, 
University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(6)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Vestfold Hospital Trust, Tønsberg, 
Norway.
(7)Oslo Delirium Research Group, Department of Geriatric Medicine, Oslo 
University Hospital, Oslo, Norway; Norwegian National Centre for Ageing and 
Health, Vestfold Hospital Trust, Tønsberg, Norway; Institute of Clinical 
Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(8)Oslo Delirium Research Group, Department of Geriatric Medicine, Oslo 
University Hospital, Oslo, Norway; Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of 
Oslo, Oslo, Norway.

Comment in
    Lancet Healthy Longev. 2023 Aug;4(8):e362-e363.

BACKGROUND: Previous population-based, longitudinal studies have shown that 
delirium is associated with an increased risk of dementia and cognitive decline. 
However, the underlying biological mechanisms are largely unknown. We aimed to 
assess the effects of delirium on both cognitive trajectories and any neuronal 
injury, measured via neurofilament light chain (NfL).
METHODS: In this analysis of a prospective, 2-year follow-up, cohort study of 
participants aged 65 years or older living in Sandefjord municipality, Norway, 
we included cohort participants who were receiving domiciliary care services at 
least once per week between May 12, 2015, and July 8, 2016. Individuals with a 
life expectancy of less than 1 week, with Lewy body dementia, with psychiatric 
illness (except dementia), or for whom substance misuse was the principal 
indication for domiciliary services were excluded. Participants had a 
comprehensive assessment at 6-month intervals for 2 years, which included the 
Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) and a blood sample for NfL to measure 
neuronal injury. All information on clinical diagnoses and medications were 
cross-referenced with medical records. During any acute change in mental status 
or hospitalisation (ie, admission to hospital), participants were assessed once 
per day for delirium with Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 
fifth edition criteria. We also measured NfL from blood samples taken from 
participants who were acutely hospitalised.
FINDINGS: Between May 12, 2015, and July 8, 2016, 210 participants were eligible 
for inclusion and assessed at baseline (138 [66%] of whom were female and 72 
[34%] of whom were male), 203 completed cognitive assessment, and 141 were 
followed up for 2 years. 160 (76%) of 210 had moderate or severe frailty and 112 
(53%) were living with dementia. During the 2-year follow-up, 89 (42%) of 210 
participants were diagnosed with one or more episodes of delirium. Incident 
delirium was independently associated with a decrease in MoCA score at the next 
6-month follow-up, even after adjustment for age, sex, education, previous MoCA 
score, and frailty (adjusted mean difference -1·5, 95% CI -2·9 to -0·1). We 
found an interaction between previous MoCA score and delirium (β -0·254, 95% CI 
-0·441 to -0·066, p=0·010), with the largest decline being observed in people 
with better baseline cognition. Participants with delirium and good previous 
cognitive function and participants with a high peak concentration of NfL during 
any hospitalisation had increased NfL at the next 6-month follow-up. Mediation 
analyses showed independent pathways from previous MoCA score to follow-up MoCA 
score with contributions from incident delirium (-1·7, 95% CI -2·8 to -0·6) and 
from previous NfL to follow-up MoCA score with contributions from acute NfL 
concentrations (-1·8, -2·5 to -1·1). Delirium was directly linked with a 
predicted value of 1·2 pg/mL (95% CI 1·02 to 1·40, p=0·029) increase in NfL.
INTERPRETATION: In people aged 65 years or older, an episode of delirium was 
associated with a decline in MoCA score. Greater neuronal injury during acute 
illness and delirium, measured by NfL, was associated with greater cognitive 
decline. For clinicians, our finding of delirium associated with both signs of 
acute neuronal injury, measured via NfL, and cognitive decline is important 
regarding the risk of long-term cognitive deterioration and to acknowledge that 
delirium is harmful for the brain.
FUNDING: South-Eastern Norway Health Authorities, Old Age Psychiatry Research 
Network, Telemark Hospital Trust, Vestfold Hospital Trust, and Norwegian 
National Centre for Ageing and Health.
TRANSLATION: For the Norwegian translation of the abstract see Supplementary 
Materials section.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2666-7568(23)00098-3
PMID: 37459878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests HZ has been on 
scientific advisory boards for AbbVie, Acumen, Alector, Alzinova, ALZPath, 
Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, 
Nervgen, Novo Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, 
reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and Wave; 
been a consultant for Red Abbey Labs; and has given lectures in symposia 
sponsored by Fujirebio, Alzecure, Cellectricon, Biogen, and Roche. HZ is a 
co-founder of Brain Biomarker Solutions in Gothenburg, Sweden, part of the 
University of Gothenburg Ventures Incubator Program. GS has participated in an 
advisory board for anti-dementia drugs for Roche and Biogen. All other authors 
declare no competing interests.


84. BMJ Open. 2023 Jul 17;13(7):e067658. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-067658.

Distributional impact of infectious disease interventions in the Ethiopian 
Essential Health Service Package: a modelling study.

Assebe LF(1), Norheim O(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard TH Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA lelfekadu1@gmail.com.
(2)Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.

OBJECTIVES: Reducing inequalities in health and financial risk are key goals on 
the path toward universal health coverage, particularly in low-income and 
middle-income countries. The design of the health benefit package creates an 
opportunity to select interventions through established criteria. The aim of 
this study is to examine the health equity and financial protection impact of 
selected interventions, along with their costs, at the national level in 
Ethiopia.
DESIGN: Distributional cost-effectiveness analysis.
POPULATION: The eligible population for all selected interventions is assumed to 
be 10 million.
DATA SOURCES: Data on disease prevalence and population size were gathered from 
the Global Burden of Disease database, and average health benefits and program 
costs are sourced from the Ethiopian Essential Health Service Package (EHSP) 
database, national surveys and other publicly available sources.
INTERVENTION: A total of 30 interventions were selected from the latest EHSP 
revision and analysed over a 1-year period.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Health benefits, social welfare indices and financial 
protection metrics across income quintiles were reported.
RESULTS: We found 23 interventions that improve population health and reduce 
health inequality and four interventions reduce both population health and 
health inequality. Additionally, three interventions improve population health 
while increasing health inequality. Overall, the EHSP interventions provide a 
0.021 improvement in health-adjusted life expectancy (HALE) per person, with a 
positive distributional equity impact: 0.029 (26.9%) HALE gained in the poorest 
and 0.015 (14.0%) in the richest quintile. Similarly, a total of 1 79 475 cases 
of catastrophic health expenditure were averted, including 82 100 (46.0%) cases 
in the poorest and 17 900 (10.0%) in the richest quintile.
CONCLUSION: Increasing access to the EHSP improves health equity and financial 
protection. Improved access to selected EHSP interventions also has the 
potential to provide greater benefits to the poorest and thereby improve social 
welfare.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-067658
PMCID: PMC10357664
PMID: 37460265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


85. Arch Osteoporos. 2023 Jul 17;18(1):100. doi: 10.1007/s11657-023-01309-8.

Economic evaluation of four treatment strategies for postmenopausal patients 
with osteoporosis and a recent fracture in mainland China: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Tian L(1), Luo C(1), Li YF(1), Wang QY(1), Qu XL(1), Yue C(1), Xu LL(2), Yang 
YY(2), Sheng ZF(3).

Author information:
(1)Health Management Center, National Clinical Research Center for Metabolic 
Diseases, Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory of Metabolic Bone Diseases, Department 
of Metabolism and Endocrinology, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, 139 Renmin Road, Changsha, Hunan, 410011, China.
(2)Health Management Center, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
