PMID: 37383314


830. Health Policy Open. 2021 Jun 20;2:100041. doi: 10.1016/j.hpopen.2021.100041.
 eCollection 2021 Dec.

Non-communicable chronic diseases: Mortality of older adult citizens in Brazil 
and Italy before the Covid-19 pandemic.

Alves VP(1)(2), de Oliveira RC(3), Gregori D(4).

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Public Health, Department of Cardiac Thoracic Vascular 
Sciences and Public Health, University of Padua, Italy.
(2)Pós-Graduate Program in Gerontology at the Catholic University of Brasília, 
Brazil.
(3)JK Education Network - Brasília, Brazil.
(4)Unit of Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Public Health, Department of Cardiac 
Thoracic Vascular Sciences and Public Health, University of Padua, Italy.

The purpose of this study was to outline the main non-communicable chronic 
diseases that led older people to death in Brazil and Italy before the 
SARS-CoV-2 pandemic according to age gaps and region of residence. This study 
has identified that the highest mortality rate among Brazilian and Italian women 
took place in lower-income areas, potentially due to insufficient public 
policies to increase income and improve health, which would in turn reduce the 
risk of chronic diseases and increase life expectancy. Men showed higher 
mortality rates in different regions, and tended to die earlier. Our results 
highlight socioeconomic differences in the areas with the highest death rates 
due to non-communicable chronic diseases, emphasizing the relevance of public 
policies to meet the needs of the overall population.

© 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.hpopen.2021.100041
PMCID: PMC10297757
PMID: 37383511

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


831. World J Diabetes. 2023 Jun 15;14(6):632-655. doi: 10.4239/wjd.v14.i6.632.

State of art on the mechanisms of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy in treating 
type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Liu FS(1), Wang S(1), Guo XS(2), Ye ZX(1), Zhang HY(3), Li Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Yangpu Hospital, Tongji University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai 200090, China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Xinxiang Central Hospital, Xinxiang 453000, 
Henan Province, China.
(3)Central Laboratory, Yangpu District Control and Prevention Center, Shanghai 
200090, China.
(4)Department of General Surgery, Yangpu Hospital, Tongji University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai 200090, China. lizhen3829@126.com.

Obesity and type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) are metabolic disorders. Obesity 
increases the risk of T2DM, and as obesity is becoming increasingly common, more 
individuals suffer from T2DM, which poses a considerable burden on health 
systems. Traditionally, pharmaceutical therapy together with lifestyle changes 
is used to treat obesity and T2DM to decrease the incidence of comorbidities and 
all-cause mortality and to increase life expectancy. Bariatric surgery is 
increasingly replacing other forms of treatment of morbid obesity, especially in 
patients with refractory obesity, owing to its many benefits including good 
long-term outcomes and almost no weight regain. The bariatric surgery options 
have markedly changed recently, and laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) is 
gradually gaining popularity. LSG has become an effective and safe treatment for 
type-2 diabetes and morbid obesity, with a high cost-benefit ratio. Here, we 
review the me-chanism associated with LSG treatment of T2DM, and we discuss 
clinical studies and animal experiments with regard to gastrointestinal 
hormones, gut microbiota, bile acids, and adipokines to clarify current 
treatment modalities for patients with obesity and T2DM.

©The Author(s) 2023. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.4239/wjd.v14.i6.632
PMCID: PMC10294061
PMID: 37383590

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: All the authors 
report no relevant conflicts of interest for this article.


832. Plant Phenomics. 2023 Jun 26;5:0063. doi: 10.34133/plantphenomics.0063. 
eCollection 2023.

Multispectral Phenotyping and Genetic Analyses of Spring Appearance in Greening 
Plant, Phedimus spp.

Koji T(1), Iwata H(2), Ishimori M(2), Takanashi H(2), Yamasaki Y(3), Tsujimoto 
H(3).

Author information:
(1)The United Graduate School of Agricultural Sciences, Tottori University, 
4-101 Koyamacho minami, Tottori-shi, Tottori 680-8553, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Agricultural and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 
1-1-1 Yayoi-chou, Bunkyo, Tokyo 113-8657, Japan.
(3)Arid Land Research Center, Tottori University, 1390 Hamasaka, Tottori-shi, 
Tottori 680-0001, Japan.

The change in appearance during the seasonal transitions in ornamental greening 
plants is an important characteristic. In particular, the early onset of green 
leaf color is a desirable trait for a cultivar. In this study, we established a 
method for phenotyping leaf color change by multispectral imaging and performed 
genetic analysis based on the phenotypes to clarify the potential of the 
approach in breeding greening plants. We performed multispectral phenotyping and 
quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis of an F1 population derived from 2 
parental lines of Phedimus takesimensis, known to be a drought and heat-tolerant 
rooftop plant species. The imaging was conducted in April of 2019 and 2020 when 
dormancy breakage occurs and growth extension begins. Principal component 
analysis of 9 different wavelength values showed a high contribution from the 
first principal component (PC1), which captured variation in the visible light 
range. The high interannual correlation in PC1 and in the intensity of visible 
light indicated that the multispectral phenotyping captured genetic variation in 
the color of leaves. We also performed restriction site-associated DNA 
sequencing and obtained the first genetic linkage map of Phedimus spp. QTL 
analysis revealed 2 QTLs related to early dormancy breakage. Based on the 
genotypes of the markers underlying these 2 QTLs, the F1 phenotypes with early 
(late) dormancy break, green (red or brown) leaves, and a high (low) degree of 
vegetative growth were classified. The results suggest the potential of 
multispectral phenotyping in the genetic dissection of seasonal leaf color 
changes in greening plants.

Copyright © 2023 Taeko Koji et al.

DOI: 10.34133/plantphenomics.0063
PMCID: PMC10292581
PMID: 37383728


833. Hist Psychol. 2023 Aug;26(3):187-209. doi: 10.1037/hop0000237. Epub 2023 Jun
29.

From middle-class American women to French managers: The transatlantic 
trajectory of assertiveness training, c. 1950s-1980s.

Gerber L(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Societes, acteurs, gouvernement 
en Europe (SAGE), UMR 7363, Universite de Strasbourg.

This article explores the contribution of behavior therapy to the extension of 
psychotherapeutic notions and techniques into everyday life, focusing on the 
transatlantic trajectory of assertiveness training. It traces the history of 
this behavioral intervention into interindividual relations from its emergence 
as a treatment for anxiety in postwar United States to its importation into the 
French field of continuing professional training at the turn of the 1980s. To 
understand what traveled between countries and practical fields, I first 
consider the definition of assertiveness as a skill sitting halfway between 
passivity and aggressiveness, which developed in the United States along with 
its uses outside therapy. I relate the success and inflexions undergone by 
assertiveness training between the 1950s and the 1970s to theoretical and 
strategic innovations in behavioral therapy and psychology, as well as to the 
reception of political and social movements, especially the women's movement. 
This article also shows that what moved between countries, sectors, and target 
audiences was not only an understanding of assertiveness as a socially 
acceptable expression of feelings, needs, and wants, but also diagnostic and 
action scripts fueled by the "ferment" of the 1960s. From middle-class American 
women to French managers, the expanded applications of assertiveness training 
were justified by the rhetoric of tensions between role socialization and new 
expectations for self-fulfillment and efficiency. Following the behavioral 
deficit model emphasized in assertiveness training, increasing calls for 
self-expression and participation prescribed communication skill training and a 
reconfiguration of interpersonal relations, both in the private and the work 
sphere. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/hop0000237
PMID: 37384454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Curr Biol. 2023 Jul 24;33(14):3024-3030.e3. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2023.06.013.
Epub  2023 Jun 28.

Extensive representation of sensory deviance in the responses to auditory gaps 
in unanesthetized rats.

Awwad B(1), Jankowski MM(1), Polterovich A(1), Bashari S(1), Nelken I(2).

Author information:
(1)Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Brain Sciences, Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, Safra Campus, Jerusalem 91904, Israel; Department Neurobiology, the 
Silberman Institute of Life Sciences, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Safra 
Campus, Jerusalem 91904, Israel.
(2)Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Brain Sciences, Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, Safra Campus, Jerusalem 91904, Israel; Department Neurobiology, the 
Silberman Institute of Life Sciences, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Safra 
Campus, Jerusalem 91904, Israel. Electronic address: 
israel.nelken@mail.huji.ac.il.

Unexpected changes in incoming sensory streams are associated with large errors 
in predicting the deviant stimulus relative to a memory trace of past stimuli. 
Mismatch negativity (MMN) in human studies and the release from 
stimulus-specific adaptation (SSA) in animal models correlate with prediction 
errors and deviance detection.1 In human studies, violation of expectations 
elicited by an unexpected stimulus omission resulted in an omission MMN.2,3,4,5 
These responses are evoked after the expected occurrence time of the omitted 
stimulus, implying that they reflect the violation of a temporal expectancy.6 
Because they are often time locked to the end of the omitted stimulus,4,6,7 they 
resemble off responses. Indeed, suppression of cortical activity after the 
termination of the gap disrupts gap detection, suggesting an essential role for 
offset responses.8 Here, we demonstrate that brief gaps in short noise bursts in 
the auditory cortex of unanesthetized rats frequently evoke offset responses. 
Importantly, we show that omission responses are elicited when these gaps are 
expected but are omitted. These omission responses, together with the release 
from SSA of both onset and offset responses to rare gaps, form a rich and varied 
representation of prediction-related signals in the auditory cortex of 
unanesthetized rats, extending substantially and refining the representations 
described previously in anesthetized rats.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2023.06.013
PMID: 37385255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


835. Transplant Proc. 2023 Sep;55(7):1511-1514. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2023.05.015. Epub 2023 Jun 27.

Prevalence of Family Refusal and Associated Factors in Declared Brain Death: A 
Six-Year Retrospective Study in Northern Cyprus.

Bayraktar N(1).

Author information:
(1)Dr Burhan Nalbantoğlu State Hospital Department of Urology, North Cyprus, 
Turkey. Electronic address: necmi.bayraktar@neu.edu.tr.

Kidney transplantation provides a higher quality of life, a longer life 
expectancy for end-stage renal disease patients, and a lower cost than other 
treatments. Unfortunately, organ shortage for kidney transplantation is a major 
obstacle for countries with long waiting lists. Approaches to solving organ 
shortages with laws and regulations differ between countries. The reasons for 
these differences are evaluated by considering many factors, such as religious 
beliefs, sociocultural differences, and distrust in health systems. Until 
another evidence-based treatment becomes available, efforts to increase dead 
donor transplants are the main solution to reducing waiting lists. In a 
retrospective study conducted in our region, we investigated the prevalence and 
potential correlation of deceased organ transplantation based on family refusal 
and other issues.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2023.05.015
PMID: 37385838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that 
could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


836. Orthop Surg. 2023 Jul;15(7):1831-1838. doi: 10.1111/os.13762. Epub 2023 Jun
29.

Treatment of Early Undifferentiated Chronic Monoarthritis of the Wrist by 
Arthroscopic Wrist Synovectomy Combined with Partial Denervation.

Yang Y(1), Li ZZ(1), Huang XJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Hand Surgery Department of Beijing Jishuitan Hospital, Beijing, China.

OBJECTIVE: Undifferentiated chronic monosecarthritis (UCMA) is a group of 
inflammatory joint diseases that has the potential to progress to other diseases 
and can seriously affect patients' quality of life. There is yet no unified 
consensus regarding treatment of UCMA. This study aimed to investigate the 
efficacy of arthroscopic synovectomy combined with partial wrist denervation in 
treating Larsen 1-3 UCMA.
METHODS: In this case series, we reviewed 14 patients with UCMA treated by 
arthroscopic synovectomy combined with partial denervation from February 2017 to 
June 2020. The mean duration of symptoms was 17.4 months (range, 4-60 months), 
and the mean follow-up was 13.3 months (range, 6-23 months). The anterior and 
posterior interosseous nerves were severed at the distal forearm, and the 
radiocarpal, midcarpal, and distal radial ulnar joint synovial membranes were 
arthroscopically resected at the wrist. The clinical evaluation indices included 
the visual analogue scale score (VAS) for pain, grip strength, range of (active) 
motion of the wrist, total active motion, and Mayo wrist score. Larsen's scoring 
method was used as the imaging evaluation index.
RESULTS: At the last follow-up, significant clinical improvements were observed 
in the visual analogue scale (VAS) score for pain (6.0 (5.0-6.3) vs 1.0 
(1.0-2.3), P = 0.001) and Mayo wrist score (42.1 ± 9.7 vs 61.8 ± 12.3, P 
< 0.0001). No significant changes were found in grip strength (15.9 ± 4.5 vs 
16.6 ± 4.7, P = 0.230) or the flexion-extension arc (58.9 ± 39.0 vs 64.3 ± 36.5, 
P = 0.317), although the mean and median did show positive changes. Among the 
three patients who showed progress in imaging, there was no significant 
difference in their pain and functional scores compared to those who did not 
progress. One patient underwent total wrist fusion 17 months after the 
operation.
CONCLUSION: Arthroscopic wrist synovectomy combined with partial wrist 
denervation can provide sustained pain relief and functional recovery for 
patients with Larsen 1-3 UCMA.

© 2023 The Authors. Orthopaedic Surgery published by Tianjin Hospital and John 
Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/os.13762
PMCID: PMC10350389
PMID: 37385950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the authors. None of the authors has a financial interest in any of the 
products or devices mentioned in this article.


837. BMC Womens Health. 2023 Jun 29;23(1):343. doi: 10.1186/s12905-023-02466-1.

Menopausal symptoms by HIV status and association with health-related quality of 
life among women in Zimbabwe: a cross-sectional study.

Madanhire T(1)(2)(3), Hawley S(4), Dauya E(5), Bandason T(5), Rukuni R(5), 
Ferrand RA(5)(6), Gregson CL(7)(4).

Author information:
(1)The Health Research Unit Zimbabwe, Biomedical Research and Training 
Institute, 10, Seagrave Road, Harare, Zimbabwe. Tafadzwa.Madanhire@lshtm.ac.uk.
(2)SAMRC/Wits Developmental Pathways for Health Research Unit, School of 
Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, 
Johannesburg, South Africa. Tafadzwa.Madanhire@lshtm.ac.uk.
(3)Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Faculty of Epidemiology and Population 
Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK. 
Tafadzwa.Madanhire@lshtm.ac.uk.
(4)Global Musculoskeletal Research Group, Musculoskeletal Research Unit, Bristol 
Medical School, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(5)The Health Research Unit Zimbabwe, Biomedical Research and Training 
Institute, 10, Seagrave Road, Harare, Zimbabwe.
(6)Clinical Research Department, Faculty of Infectious and Tropical Diseases, 
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(7)SAMRC/Wits Developmental Pathways for Health Research Unit, School of 
Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, 
Johannesburg, South Africa.

BACKGROUND: The scale-up of antiretroviral therapy programmes has resulted in 
increased life expectancy of people with HIV in Africa. Little is known of the 
menopausal experiences of African women, including those living with HIV. We 
aimed to determine the prevalence and severity of self-reported menopause 
symptoms in women at different stages of menopause transition, by HIV status, 
and evaluate how symptoms are related to health-related quality of life (HRQoL). 
We further sought to understand factors associated with menopause symptoms.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study recruited women resident in Harare, Zimbabwe, 
sampled by age group (40-44/45-49/50-54/55-60 years) and HIV status. Women 
recruited from public-sector HIV clinics identified two similarly aged female 
friends (irrespective of HIV status) with phone access. Socio-demographic and 
medical details were recorded and women staged as pre-, peri- or post-menopause. 
The Menopausal Rating Scale II (MRS), which classified symptom severity, was 
compared between those with and without HIV. Linear and logistic regression 
determined factors associated with menopause symptoms, and associations between 
symptoms and HRQoL.
RESULTS: The 378 women recruited (193[51.1%] with HIV), had a mean (SD) age of 
49.3 (5.7) years; 173 (45.8%), 51 (13.5%) and 154 (40.7%) were pre-, peri and 
post-menopausal respectively. Women with HIV reported more moderate (24.9% vs. 
18.1%) and severe (9.7% vs. 2.6%) menopause symptoms than women without HIV. 
Peri-menopausal women with HIV reported higher MRS scores than those pre- and 
post-menopausal, whereas in HIV negative women menopausal stage was not 
associated with MRS score (interaction p-value = 0.014). With increasing 
severity of menopause symptoms, lower mean HRQoL scores were observed. HIV (OR 
2.02[95% CI 1.28, 3.21]), mood disorders (8.80[2.77, 28.0]), ≥ 2 falls/year 
(4.29[1.18, 15.6]), early menarche (2.33[1.22, 4.48]), alcohol consumption 
(2.16[1.01, 4.62]), food insecurity (1.93[1.14, 3.26]) and unemployment 
(1.56[0.99, 2.46]), were all associated with moderate/severe menopause symptoms. 
No woman reported use of menopausal hormone therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Menopausal symptoms are common and negatively impact HRQoL. HIV 
infection is associated with more severe menopause symptoms, as are several 
modifiable factors, including unemployment, alcohol consumption, and food 
insecurity. Findings highlight an unmet health need in ageing women in 
Zimbabwean, especially among those living with HIV.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12905-023-02466-1
PMCID: PMC10311890
PMID: 37386415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


838. J Anesth Analg Crit Care. 2023 Feb 15;3(1):4. doi:
10.1186/s44158-023-00087-6.

Cost-effectiveness of polymyxin B hemoperfusion for septic shock: an 
observational study using a Japanese nationwide administrative database.

Fujimori K(1), Tarasawa K(2), Fushimi K(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Administration and Policy, Tohoku University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan. fujimori@med.tohoku.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Health Administration and Policy, Tohoku University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan.
(3)Department of Health Policy and Informatics, Tokyo Medical and Dental 
University Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Bunkyo-Ku, Tokyo, 
Japan.

BACKGROUND: Polymyxin B hemoperfusion (PMX) removes endotoxin from septic shock 
patients. Although the treatment has been clinically used for more than 
20 years, its cost-effectiveness has not been evaluated in detail.
METHODS: This study used the Japanese diagnosis procedure combination (DPC) 
administrative database from April 2018 to March 2021. We selected adult 
patients with a primary diagnosis of sepsis and the SOFA score at the sepsis 
diagnosis was between 7 and 12. The patients were divided into the PMX group 
that received PMX treatment and the control group that did not receive PMX. 
After adjusting the patient background by propensity score matching, we 
calculated the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) by determining the 
difference in quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) and medical cost between the PMX 
and the control groups.
RESULTS: Nineteen thousand two hundred eighty-three patients were included in 
the study. Among them, 1492 patients received PMX treatment, and 17,791 did not. 
As a result of 1:3 propensity score matching, 965 patients in the PMX group and 
2895 patients in the control group were selected and analyzed. Twenty-eight-day 
mortality and hospital mortality were significantly lower in the PMX group. The 
average medical cost per patient of the PMX group was 31,418 ± 21,144 Euro and 
that of the control group was 24,483 ± 21,762 Euro, with a difference of 6935 
Euro. Life expectancy, life year-gained (LYG), and the QALY were 1.70, 0.86, and 
0.60 years longer in the PMX group, respectively. The ICER was calculated to be 
11,592 Euro/year, which was lower than the reported willingness-to-pay threshold 
of 38,462 Euro/year.
CONCLUSION: Polymyxin B hemoperfusion was shown to be an acceptable treatment in 
terms of the medical economy.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s44158-023-00087-6
PMCID: PMC10245629
PMID: 37386542

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


839. J Anesth Analg Crit Care. 2022 Nov 4;2(1):47. doi:
10.1186/s44158-022-00075-2.

Parent and medical team disagreements in the UK: universal lessons in the 
origins and resolution in conflict.

Mackintosh K(1), McConnell P(2).

Author information:
(1)Anaesthetic Department, Royal Alexandra Hospital, Corsebar Road, Paisley, 
Scotland, PA2 9PN. Karen.mackintosh@nhs.scot.
(2)Anaesthetic Department, Royal Alexandra Hospital, Corsebar Road, Paisley, 
Scotland, PA2 9PN.

In recent decades, there has been an increase in life expectancy in children 
with life-limiting conditions. Ideally, parents and clinicians would work 
together to ensure the best care for these children. Several cases have appeared 
in the media in recent years where conflict has risen between parents and 
healthcare professionals acting in the 'best interests' of children, which have 
resulted in court action. However, the legislation itself promotes conflict. 
Similar laws exist across Europe based on Article 24 of the UN Convention on the 
Rights of the Child.The aim of the Children's Act 1989 in the UK was to place 
the 'child's welfare' as the 'paramount consideration'. It has prevented 
draconian care and supervision orders, which can only be made if the child is at 
risk of 'significant harm'. This threshold does not apply to healthcare teams. 
Healthcare decisions are based on 'best interests', which are not explicitly 
defined. This sets the threshold for progression to court action much lower, and 
due to a lack of definitive definition of what 'best interests' are, this has 
unfortunately escalated conflict rather than resolve it.Healthcare institutions 
have been criticised for not utilising alternative approaches first, such as 
mediation. We propose an alternative approach based on collaboration, 
reasonableness and the threshold of significant harm, which we have explored in 
this review.Conflict management frameworks are a tool that can be used to 
recognise early signs of conflict and develop strategies to prevent escalation 
at ward level. They can be tailored to individual institutions and utilise 
content-oriented and empathetic communication strategies through designated 
clinicians. They should offer guidance on when to refer to the courts.Parental 
wishes should be assessed on whether they represent significant harm or not. If 
not, they cannot simply be wrong. Acknowledgement of the 'reasonableness' of 
parental requests can be a key factor which is diffusing conflict. Therefore, 
setting the threshold for state intervention at 'significant harm' rather than 
'best interests' would help to reduce the number of these cases progressing to 
courts.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s44158-022-00075-2
PMCID: PMC10245405
PMID: 37386545

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


840. Environ Sci Technol. 2023 Jul 11;57(27):9996-10007. doi: 
10.1021/acs.est.3c03013. Epub 2023 Jun 29.

Solar-Assisted-Self-Healing N-Doped MXene Quantum Dots-Based Membrane with 
Protein Resistance for Seawater Desalination.

Zhang T(1), Dong CS(1), Zhang LZ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Enhanced Heat Transfer and Energy Conservation of Education 
Ministry, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, South China University 
of Technology, Guangzhou 510640, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Subtropical Building and Urban Science, South China 
University of Technology, Guangzhou 510640, China.

Membrane-based air humidification-dehumidification desalination (MHDD) 
technology is an effective way to ease fresh water shortage owing to its 
excellent salt rejection. However, industrial applications pose higher 
requirements on membrane life expectancy. Membrane cleaning is considered as a 
potentially sustainable approach to prolong the operation time. Traditional 
cleaning methods are limited due to the poor recovery efficiency and the 
introduction of impurities. Here, a novel solar-assisted-self-healing N-doped 
MXene quantum dots (NMQDs)/ZnO-based membrane was fabricated to repair the water 
production capability of membranes contaminated by proteins from seawater. On 
the one hand, NMQDs with up-conversion properties absorb visible light and emit 
ultraviolet light, under which ZnO could be excited to form electron/hole pairs 
that help to degrade organic matter pollutants. On the other hand, the addition 
of NMQDs could improve the charge separation efficiency of ZnO. The synergistic 
effect of the two enhances the light absorption capacity of ZnO. The as-designed 
membrane exhibited excellent repair ability. The moisture permeation rate of the 
healed membrane reached 99.8% of the initial membrane after illumination. The 
self-healing membrane with solar energy is promising advances in sustainable 
desalination.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.3c03013
PMID: 37386880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Int J Soc Psychiatry. 2023 Jun 30:207640231183920. doi: 
10.1177/00207640231183920. Online ahead of print.

Vocational rehabilitation in persons with mental illness in India: A scoping 
review.

Thekkumkara S(1), Rawat VS(2), Jagannathan A(3), Muliyala KP(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, University of Dundee, Scotland, UK.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Rishikesh, 
India.
(3)Departmeny of Psychiatric Social Work, NIMHANS, Bengaluru, India.
(4)Department of Psychiatry (Psychiatric Rehabilitation), NIMHANS, Bengaluru, 
India.

BACKGROUND: Employment has a therapeutic impact, enhances community integration 
and improves the quality of life of persons with mental illness (PwMI). 
Vocational rehabilitation (VR) models must be sensitive to existing needs and 
resources. Several VR models have been tested in high income countries. Mapping 
different VR models in India would help both practitioners and policymakers.
AIM: The study aimed to comprehensively review VR models tested among PwMI in 
India.
METHODS: We adhered to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews 
extension for Scoping Reviews. We included interventional studies, case studies 
and grey literature carried out for the VR of PwMI in India. The search was done 
in PubMed, PsychInfo, worldwide science and Web of Science. Google Scholar was 
used to supplement the search. A Boolean search using MeSH terms was carried out 
for the period January 2000 to December 2022.
RESULTS: A total of twelve studies (one feasibility study, four case studies, 
four institute-based intervention studies and two studies reporting NGOs' role) 
were included in the final synthesis. The studies included in the review were 
either quasi-experimental studies or case based. Types of VR included supported 
employment or place and train or train and place models, case management and 
prevocational skills training.
CONCLUSION: Limited studies exist on VR in PwMI from India. Most studies 
assessed a restricted set of outcomes. The experiences of NGOs should be 
published so that practical challenges can be understood. There is a need for 
public-private partnerships in designing and testing services and should involve 
all the stakeholders.

DOI: 10.1177/00207640231183920
PMID: 37387462


842. Arch Microbiol Immunol. 2023;7(2):36-61. Epub 2023 May 9.

Long COVID: Complications, Underlying Mechanisms, and Treatment Strategies.

Zadeh FH(1), Wilson DR(1), Agrawal DK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational Research, College of Osteopathic Medicine of the 
Pacific Western University of Health Sciences, Pomona, California 91766, USA.

Long Covid is one of the most prevalent and puzzling conditions that arose with 
the Covid pandemic. Covid-19 infection generally resolves within several weeks 
but some experience new or lingering symptoms. Though there is no formal 
definition for such lingering symptoms the CDC boadly describes long Covid as 
persons having a wide range of new, recurring or sustained health issues four or 
more weeks after first being infected with SARS-CoV2. The WHO defines long Covid 
as the manifestation of symptoms from a "probable or confirmed" Covid-19 
infection that start approximately 3 months after the onset of the acute 
infection and last for more than 2 months. Numerous studies have looked at the 
implications of long Covid on various organs. Many specific mechanisms have been 
proposed for such changes. In this article, we provide an overview of some of 
the main mechanisms by which long Covid induces end-organ damage proposed in 
recent research studies. We also review various treatment options, current 
clinical trials, and other potential therapeutic avenues to control long Covid 
followed by the information about the effect of vaccination on long Covid. 
Lastly, we discuss some of the questions and knowledge gaps in the present 
understanding of long Covid. We believe more studies of the effects long Covid 
has on quality of life, future health and life expectancy are required to better 
understand and eventually prevent or treat the disease. We acknowledge the 
effects of long Covid are not limited to those in this article but as it may 
affect the health of future offspring and therefore, we deem it important to 
identify more prognostic and therapeutic targets to control this condition.

PMCID: PMC10310313
PMID: 37388279

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


843. Front Vet Sci. 2023 Jun 14;10:1186040. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2023.1186040. 
eCollection 2023.

Whole-genome DNA methylation profiling reveals epigenetic signatures in 
developing muscle in Tan and Hu sheep and their offspring.

Yue C(1)(2), Wang J(3), Shen Y(4), Zhang J(2), Liu J(2), Xiao A(5), Liu Y(1), 
Eer H(2), Zhang QE(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Ningxia University, Yinchuan, 
Ningxia, China.
(2)Ningxia Academy of Agriculture and Forestry Sciences, Yinchuan, Ningxia, 
China.
(3)College of Life Science and Technology, Huazhong University of Science and 
Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, China.
(4)Institute of Marxism, China University of Geosciences, Wuhan, Hubei, China.
(5)Animal Husbandry Extension Station, Yinchuan, Ningxia, China.

INTRODUCTION: The Tan sheep is a popular local breed in China because of its 
tenderness and flavor. The Hu sheep breed is also famous for its high litter 
size, and its muscle growth rate is faster than that of Tan sheep. However, the 
epigenetic mechanism behind these muscle-related phenotypes is unknown.
METHODS: In this study, the longissimus dorsi tissue from 18 6 month-old Tan 
sheep, Hu sheep, and Tan-Hu F2 generation (6 sheep per population) were 
collected. After genomic DNA extraction, whole-genome bisulfite sequencing 
(WGBS) and bioinformatics analysis were performed to construct genome-wide DNA 
methylome maps for the Tan sheep, Hu sheep and their Tan-Hu F2 generation.
RESULTS: Distinct genome-wide DNA methylation patterns were observed between Tan 
sheep and Hu sheep. Moreover, DNA methylated regions were significantly 
increased in the skeletal muscle from Tan sheep vs. the F2 generation compared 
to the Hu sheep vs. F2 generation and the Tan sheep vs. Hu sheep. Compared with 
Hu sheep, the methylation levels of actin alpha 1 (ACTA1), myosin heavy chain 11 
(MYH11), Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WAS), vav guanine nucleotide exchange 
factor 1 (VAV1), fibronectin 1 (FN1) and Rho-associated protein kinase 2 (ROCK2) 
genes were markedly distinct in the Tan sheep. Furthermore, Gene Ontology 
analysis indicated that these genes were involved in myotube differentiation, 
myotube cell development, smooth muscle cell differentiation and striated muscle 
cell differentiation.
CONCLUSION: The findings from this study, in addition to data from previous 
research, demonstrated that the ACTA1, MYH11, WAS, VAV1, FN1, and ROCK2 genes 
may exert regulatory effects on muscle development.

Copyright © 2023 Yue, Wang, Shen, Zhang, Liu, Xiao, Liu, Eer and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2023.1186040
PMCID: PMC10301830
PMID: 37388464

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


844. IBRO Neurosci Rep. 2023 Jan 16;14:111-121. doi:
10.1016/j.ibneur.2023.01.002.  eCollection 2023 Jun.

Component-specific reduction in perineuronal nets in senescence-accelerated 
mouse strains.

Ueno H(1), Takahashi Y(2), Murakami S(2), Wani K(2), Miyazaki T(2), Matsumoto 
Y(3), Okamoto M(4), Ishihara T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Technology, Kawasaki University of Medical Welfare, 
Okayama 701-0193, Japan.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Kawasaki Medical School, Kurashiki, 701-0192, 
Japan.
(3)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama University, Okayama 700-8558, Japan.
(4)Department of Medical Technology, Graduate School of Health Sciences, Okayama 
University, Okayama 700-8558, Japan.

With increased life expectancy, age-related diseases are a significant health 
concern in Western societies. Animal models (e.g., rodents) have been used to 
understand age-related changes in brain function-particularly through the 
senescence-accelerated mouse (SAM) strain. Previous reports have shown that the 
senescence-accelerated mouse propensity (SAMP)8 and SAMP10 strains have learning 
disabilities. In this study, we analyzed the prefrontal cortex, which is 
involved in cognitive function. We aimed to clarify the changes in 
parvalbumin-positive interneurons (PV-positive neurons), which are related to 
cognitive function, and perineuronal nets (PNNs), which are special 
extracellular matrix molecules formed around them. We performed histological 
analysis of PV-positive neurons and PNNs in the prefrontal cortex to elucidate 
the mechanism of behavioral abnormalities in SAMP8 and SAMP10 strains. 
Expression of Cat-315-positive PNN was not confirmed in the prefrontal cortex of 
SAMP10 mice. However, the density of AB1031-positive PNN, tenascin-R-positive 
PNN, and brevican-positive PNN decreased in the prefrontal cortex of SAMP8 and 
SAMP10 mice compared to that of the senescence-accelerated mouse resistance 
(SAMR1) mice. In addition, the density of PV-positive neurons was lower in SAMP8 
mice than in SAMR1 mice. These mice, which exhibited behavioral and 
neuropathological phenotypes with age, showed different PV-positive neurons and 
PNNs in the prefrontal cortex compared with the SAMR1 mice. We believe that the 
results of this study will be useful for elucidating the mechanisms of 
age-related decline in cognitive and learning functions using SAM.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2023.01.002
PMCID: PMC10300471
PMID: 37388498

Conflict of interest statement: None


845. Longhua Chin Med. 2022;5:35. doi: 10.21037/lcm-21-72. Epub 2022 Dec 30.

Effects of saffron and its active constituent crocin on cancer management: A 
narrative review.

Wang CZ(1)(2), Ma Q(1)(2), Kim S(1)(2), Wang DH(1)(2), Shoyama Y(3), Yuan 
CS(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Tang Center for Herbal Medicine Research, The Pritzker School of Medicine, 
University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(2)Department of Anesthesia & Critical Care, The Pritzker School of Medicine, 
University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(3)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Nagasaki International University, 
Nagasaki, Japan.
(4)Committee on Clinical Pharmacology and Pharmacogenomics, The Pritzker School 
of Medicine, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Cancer is a major public health problem in the world, 
and it dramatically affects the life expectancy of patients and their quality of 
life. Natural products from botanicals could be beneficial in the prevention or 
treatment of a variety of cancers. Saffron (the extract of Crocus sativus) 
includes its major constituent, crocin, have been used as a folk medicine for a 
long time, and they have shown obvious cancer chemoprevention potential. The 
objectives of this review are to present the progress of research on the effects 
of saffron and crocin in cancer management and the underlying mechanisms of 
action.
METHODS: We searched publications in the English language, published between 
January 1, 1980 and September 30, 2022, of saffron and crocin on cancer through 
several search engines, i.e., PubMed, SciFinder and Web of Science.
KEY CONTENT AND FINDINGS: In this article, we first summarize the phytochemical 
studies of this botanical. Then, we present the anticancer effects of saffron 
and crocin on different human cancer cells. Saffron and crocin showed obvious 
antiproliferative effects on human cancer cell lines, including colorectal 
cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, cervical cancer, leukemia, 
glioblastoma and rhabdomyosarcoma. Finally, the anticancer-related mechanisms of 
action are summarized, including cell cycle arrest at G0/G1 or G2/M phases, 
induction of caspase-dependent apoptosis, signaling pathway-linked tumor 
metabolism regulation, and adaptive immunity regulated inflammation of host 
immune responses.
CONCLUSIONS: Previous studies related to saffron and crocin in cancer management 
have been reviewed and reported results have been analyzed. Clinical data 
suggest that saffron and crocin have beneficial effects to improve quality of 
life in cancer patients. Thus, saffron and crocin can be considered promising 
candidates for future clinical cancer studies.

DOI: 10.21037/lcm-21-72
PMCID: PMC10309162
PMID: 37389090

Conflict of interest statement: All authors have completed the ICMJE uniform 
disclosure form (available at 
https://lcm.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/lcm-21-72/coif). The series 
“Multifunctional Saffron” was commissioned by the editorial office without any 
funding or sponsorship. CZW serves as an unpaid editorial board member of 
Longhua Chinese Medicine from November 2021 to October 2023. YS serves as an 
unpaid Associate Editor-in-Chief of Longhua Chinese Medicine from September 2022 
to August 2024 and served as the unpaid Guest Editor of the series. The authors 
have no other conflicts of interest to declare.


846. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2023 Sep 1;39(5):356-361. doi: 
10.1097/MOG.0000000000000958. Epub 2023 Jun 22.

Endoscopic approaches to small intestinal strictures.

Ashat M(1), El-Abiad R(1), Khashab MA(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Iowa Hospitals and 
Clinics, Iowa City, Iowa.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Johns Hopkins Hospital, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Gastric outlet obstruction (GOO) occurs from benign or 
malignant causes. Historically, the treatment of benign strictures revolved 
around endoscopic balloon dilation, whereas, in the case of malignant 
strictures, the placement of self-expandable metallic stents was the focus. The 
advent of lumen-apposing metal stent has opened new horizons in addressing 
shortcomings of enteral stenting and surgical gastroenterostomies. The purpose 
of the review is to discuss the endoscopic approaches to small bowel strictures 
and to examine the supporting data behind each practice.
RECENT FINDINGS: Given the risk and futility of balloon dilation for malignant 
strictures, enteral stenting is pursued in patients who are poor surgical 
candidates and with life expectancy less than 6 months. For patients with longer 
survival, surgical gastroenterostomy (S-GE) should be considered. Recent data 
have shown comparable technical and clinical success rates between 
EUS-gastroenterostomy and S-GE but with lower adverse event rate and hospital 
length of stay.
SUMMARY: In recurrent benign strictures and malignant GOO, EUS-GE has recently 
gained momentum in providing an effective and a well tolerated alternative. 
Individualized therapy centered around the patient's prognosis and preference 
while factoring in the local expertise for the specific indication is vital.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000000958
PMID: 37389433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. J Prim Health Care. 2023 Jun;15(2):104-105. doi: 10.1071/HC23058.

Improving life expectancy with primary health care.

Baker R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health Sciences, University of Leicester, University 
Road, Leicester, LE1 7RH, UK.

DOI: 10.1071/HC23058
PMID: 37390027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Development. 2023 Jul 15;150(14):dev201630. doi: 10.1242/dev.201630. Epub
2023  Jul 13.

TMEM132A regulates mouse hindgut morphogenesis and caudal development.

Zeng H(1), Liu A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Eberly College of Science and Huck Institute of Life 
Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 16802, USA.

Caudal developmental defects, including caudal regression, caudal dysgenesis and 
sirenomelia, are devastating conditions affecting the skeletal, nervous, 
digestive, reproductive and excretory systems. Defects in mesodermal migration 
and blood supply to the caudal region have been identified as possible causes of 
caudal developmental defects, but neither satisfactorily explains the structural 
malformations in all three germ layers. Here, we describe caudal developmental 
defects in transmembrane protein 132a (Tmem132a) mutant mice, including 
skeletal, posterior neural tube closure, genitourinary tract and hindgut 
defects. We show that, in Tmem132a mutant embryos, visceral endoderm fails to be 
excluded from the medial region of early hindgut, leading directly to the loss 
or malformation of cloaca-derived genitourinary and gastrointestinal structures, 
and indirectly to the neural tube and kidney/ureter defects. We find that 
TMEM132A mediates intercellular interaction, and physically interacts with 
planar cell polarity (PCP) regulators CELSR1 and FZD6. Genetically, Tmem132a 
regulates neural tube closure synergistically with another PCP regulator Vangl2. 
In summary, we have identified Tmem132a as a new regulator of PCP, and hindgut 
malformation as the underlying cause of developmental defects in multiple caudal 
structures.

© 2023. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.

DOI: 10.1242/dev.201630
PMCID: PMC10357036
PMID: 37390294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests The authors declare no 
competing or financial interests.


849. Mol Metab. 2023 Aug;74:101765. doi: 10.1016/j.molmet.2023.101765. Epub 2023
Jun  28.

Effects of a long-acting secretin peptide analog alone and in combination with a 
GLP-1R agonist in a diet-induced obesity mouse model.

Loeffler M(1), Klepac K(2), Baljuls A(3), Hamilton B(4), Mayer-Wrangowski S(5), 
Haebel P(6), Zimmermann T(7).

Author information:
(1)Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Birkendorfer Str. 65, 88400 
Biberach an der Riβ, Germany. Electronic address: 
mona.loeffler@boehringer-ingelheim.com.
(2)Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Birkendorfer Str. 65, 88400 
Biberach an der Riβ, Germany. Electronic address: 
katarina.klepac_bartl@boehringer-ingelheim.com.
(3)Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Birkendorfer Str. 65, 88400 
Biberach an der Riβ, Germany. Electronic address: 
angela.baljuls@boehringer-ingelheim.com.
(4)Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Birkendorfer Str. 65, 88400 
Biberach an der Riβ, Germany. Electronic address: 
bradford.hamilton@boehringer-ingelheim.com.
(5)Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Birkendorfer Str. 65, 88400 
Biberach an der Riβ, Germany. Electronic address: 
svenja.mayer-wrangowski@boehringer-ingelheim.com.
(6)Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Birkendorfer Str. 65, 88400 
Biberach an der Riβ, Germany. Electronic address: 
peter.haebel@boehringer-ingelheim.com.
(7)Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Birkendorfer Str. 65, 88400 
Biberach an der Riβ, Germany. Electronic address: 
tina.zimmermann@boehringer-ingelheim.com.

OBJECTIVE: Obesity is a major global health problem which can be targeted with 
new mechanistic diverse pharmacological interventions. Here we evaluate a new 
long-acting secretin receptor agonist as a potential treatment for obesity.
METHODS: BI-3434 was designed as a secretin analog with stabilized peptide 
backbone and attached fatty acid-based half-life extension group. The peptide 
was evaluated in vitro for its ability to stimulate cAMP accumulation in a cell 
line stably expressing recombinant secretin receptor. On the functional level, 
stimulation of lipolysis in primary adipocytes after treatment with BI-3434 was 
determined. The ability of BI-3434 to activate secretin receptor in vivo was 
assessed in a cAMP reporter CRE-Luc mouse model. Furthermore, a diet-induced 
obesity mouse model was used to test the effects of BI-3434 on body weight and 
food intake following repeated daily subcutaneous administration alone and in 
combination with a GLP-1R agonist.
RESULTS: BI-3434 potently activated human secretin receptor. However, lipolysis 
was only weakly induced in primary murine adipocytes. BI-3434 had an extended 
half-life compared to endogenous secretin and activated target tissues like 
pancreas, adipose tissue, and stomach in vivo. BI-3434 did not lower food intake 
in lean or diet-induced obese mice, but it increased energy expenditure after 
daily administration. This led to a loss of fat mass, which did not translate in 
a significant effect on body weight. However, treatment in combination with a 
GLP-1R agonist led to a synergistic effect on body weight loss.
CONCLUSIONS: BI-3434 is a highly potent and selective agonist of secretin 
receptor with an extended pharmacokinetic (PK) profile. Increased energy 
expenditure after daily treatment with BI-3434 suggests that secretin receptor 
is involved in metabolic regulation and energy homeostasis. Targeting secretin 
receptor alone may not be an efficient anti-obesity treatment, but could be 
combined with anorectic principles like GLP-1R agonists.

Copyright © 2023 Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH&Co.KG. Published by Elsevier 
GmbH.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molmet.2023.101765
PMCID: PMC10344952
PMID: 37390979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper


850. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2023 Sep;66(3):343-350. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2023.06.032. Epub 2023 Jun 29.

Patient Reported Outcome Measures Used to Assess Quality of Life in Aortic 
Dissection: a Systematic Scoping Review using COSMIN Methodology.

Hanna L(1), Jha R(2), Sounderajah V(3), Markar S(4), Gibbs R(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial College London, London, UK; 
Imperial Vascular Unit, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London, UK. 
Electronic address: l.hanna@imperial.ac.uk.
(2)School of Medicine, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(3)Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial College London, London, UK; 
Institute of Global Health Innovation, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(4)Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial College London, London, UK; 
Nuffield Department of Surgery, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(5)Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial College London, London, UK; 
Imperial Vascular Unit, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London, UK.

Comment in
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2023 Sep;66(3):351.

OBJECTIVE: To systematically identify all patient reported outcome measures 
(PROMs) (quality of life [QOL] instruments or other instrument/methodology) that 
have been used to date in aortic dissection (AD) and to explore how well these 
instruments evaluate QOL according to the Consensus based Standards for the 
selection of health Measurement Instruments (COSMIN) methodology or guideline.
DATA SOURCES: Embase, MEDLINE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, and Cochrane Library were 
search on 1st July 2022.
REVIEW METHODS: This scoping review was undertaken according to the Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for scoping 
reviews (PRISMA-ScR) and the COSMIN guidelines for performing systematic reviews 
of validated PROMs. Studies that reported on any aspect or domain of QOL using a 
PROM or other instrument or methodology on AD were included. Data synthesis, 
including psychometric property analysis and risk of bias assessment were 
performed according to COSMIN guidelines.
RESULTS: Forty-five studies, published between 1994 and 2021 reporting on 5 874 
patients (mean age 63 years, 70.6% male), were included. A total of 39 PROMs 
were used, and three studies used semi-structured interviews. The majority (69%) 
of studies were in patients with type A aortic dissection (TAAD). The most 
common PROM used was the SF-36 (51%). Six studies evaluated one or more 
psychometric properties of a PROM. Only one of these studies was specifically 
designed as a validation study. No study reported on content validity. Internal 
consistency was the most evaluated psychometric property. No study evaluated all 
the psychometric properties according to COSMIN methodology. The methodological 
quality used to assess these PROMs was judged to be adequate or very good.
CONCLUSION: This review highlights the heterogeneity of PROMs or methods used to 
determine QOL in AD patients. The lack of research regarding a comprehensive 
evaluation of the psychometric properties of a PROM used in AD highlights the 
need for the development and validation of a dissection specific PROM. [PROSPERO 
registration no. CRD42022310477].

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2023.06.032
PMID: 37391013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

