
Thymol@activated Carbon Nanohybrid for Low-Density Polyethylene-Based Active 
Packaging Films for Pork Fillets' Shelf-Life Extension.

Giannakas AE(1), Karabagias VK(1), Moschovas D(2), Leontiou A(1), Karabagias 
IK(1), Georgopoulos S(1), Karydis-Messinis A(2), Zaharioudakis K(1), Andritsos 
N(1), Kehayias G(1), Avgeropoulos A(2), Proestos C(3), Salmas CE(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, University of Patras, 30100 
Agrinio, Greece.
(2)Department of Material Science and Engineering, University of Ioannina, 45110 
Ioannina, Greece.
(3)Laboratory of Food Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, National and 
Kapodistrian University of Athens Zografou, 15771 Athens, Greece.

Τhe replacement of food packaging additives and preservatives with bio-based 
antioxidant/antibacterial compounds has been a common practice in recent years 
following the trend of bioeconomy and nanotechnology. Such bio-additives are 
often enclosed in nanocarriers for a controlled release process. Following this 
trend in this work, a thymol (TO)-rich activated carbon (AC) nanohybrid was 
prepared and characterized physicochemically with various techniques. This TO@AC 
nanohybrid, along with the pure activated carbon, was extruded with low-density 
polyethylene (LDPE) to develop novel active packaging films. The codenames used 
in this paper were LDPE/xTO@AC and LDPE/xAC for the nanohybrid and the pure 
activated carbon, respectively. X-ray diffractometry, Fourier-transform infrared 
spectroscopy, and scanning electron microscopy measurements showed high 
dispersity of both the TO@AC nanohybrid and the pure AC in the LDPE matrix, 
resulting in enhanced mechanical properties. The active film with 15 wt.% of the 
TO@AC nanohybrid (LDPE/15TO@AC) exhibited a 230% higher water/vapor barrier and 
1928% lower oxygen permeability than the pure LDPE film. For this active film, 
the highest antioxidant activity referred to the DPPH assay (44.4%), the lowest 
thymol release rate (k2 ≈ 1.5 s-1), and the highest antibacterial activity were 
recorded, resulting in a 2-day extension of fresh pork fillets' shelf-life.

DOI: 10.3390/foods12132590
PMCID: PMC10340350
PMID: 37444330

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


32. Cancers (Basel). 2023 Jun 28;15(13):3398. doi: 10.3390/cancers15133398.

Association between Computed Tomography-Determined Loss of Muscle Mass and 
Impaired Three-Month Survival in Frail Older Adults with Cancer.

Tolonen A(1)(2), Kerminen H(2)(3)(4), Lehtomäki K(2)(5), Huhtala H(6), Bärlund 
M(2)(5), Österlund P(2)(5)(7)(8)(9), Arponen O(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Tampere University Hospital, Kuntokatu 2, 33520 
Tampere, Finland.
(2)Faculty of Medicine and Health Technology, Tampere University, Arvo Ylpön 
Katu 34, 33520 Tampere, Finland.
(3)Centre of Geriatrics, Tampere University Hospital, Kuntokatu 2, 33520 
Tampere, Finland.
(4)Gerontology Research Center (GEREC), Tampere University, Arvo Ylpön Katu 34, 
33520 Tampere, Finland.
(5)Department of Oncology, Tays Cancer Centre, Tampere University Hospital, 
Teiskontie 35, 33520 Tampere, Finland.
(6)Faculty of Social Sciences, Tampere University, Kalevantie 5, 33014 Tampere, 
Finland.
(7)Department of Oncology, Comprehensive Cancer Center, Helsinki University 
Hospital, University of Helsinki, Haartmaninkatu 4, 00290 Helsinki, Finland.
(8)Department of Gastrointestinal Oncology, Tema Cancer, Karolinska 
Universitetssjukhuset, Eugeniavägen 3, 17176 Solna, Sweden.
(9)Department of Oncology-Pathology, Karolinska Institutet, Solnavägen 1, 17177 
Solna, Sweden.

As patients with solid (non-hematological) cancers and a life expectancy of <3 
months rarely benefit from oncological treatment, we examined whether the 
CT-determined loss of muscle mass is associated with an impaired 3-month overall 
survival (OS) in frail ≥75-year-old patients with cancer. Frailty was assessed 
with G8-screening and comprehensive geriatric assessment in older adults at risk 
of frailty. The L3-level skeletal (SMI) and psoas (PMI) muscle indexes were 
determined from routine CT scans. Established and optimized SMI and PMI cut-offs 
were used. In the non-curative treatment group (n = 58), 3-month OS rates for 
normal and low SMI were 95% and 64% (HR 9.28; 95% CI 1.2-71) and for PMI 88%, 
and 60%, respectively (HR 4.10; 1.3-13). A Cox multivariable 3-month OS model 
showed an HR of 10.7 (1.0-110) for low SMI, 2.34 (0.6-9.8) for ECOG performance 
status 3-4, 2.11 (0.5-8.6) for clinical frailty scale 5-9, and 0.57 (0.1-2.8) 
for males. The 24-month OS rates in the curative intent group (n = 21) were 91% 
and 38% for the normal and low SMI groups, respectively. In conclusion, 
CT-determined low muscle mass is independently associated with an impaired 
3-month OS and, alongside geriatric assessment, could aid in oncological versus 
best supportive care decision-making in frail patients with non-curable cancers.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers15133398
PMCID: PMC10340736
PMID: 37444508

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests. The funders had no role in the design of the study, in the 
collection, analyses or interpretation of data, in the writing of the 
manuscript, or in the decision to publish the results.


33. Cancers (Basel). 2023 Jul 7;15(13):3534. doi: 10.3390/cancers15133534.

Distal Humeral Replacement in Patients with Primary Bone Sarcoma: The Functional 
Outcome and Return to Sports.

Schneider KN(1), Ellerbrock M(1), Gosheger G(1), Westphal LM(1), Deventer N(1), 
Klingebiel S(1), Rickert C(1), Theil C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Tumor Orthopaedics, Albert-Schweitzer Campus 
1, 48149 Münster, Germany.

Distal humeral replacement (DHR) is a limb-salvage option for the endoprosthetic 
reconstruction of bone defects following the resection of a primary bone 
sarcoma. As primary bone sarcomas are only occasionally located around the 
distal humerus, there is a paucity of information regarding postoperative 
function, and patients' resumption of sporting activities. With advances in 
diagnostics and in surgical and oncological treatment leading to an increased 
patient life expectancy and higher quality of life, patients' functional outcome 
and return to sports activities are of increasing interest. Between 1997 and 
2021, a total of 24 patients underwent DHR with a single-design modular implant 
at a tertiary sarcoma center. A total of 14 patients who died of their disease 
were excluded, leaving a study cohort of 10 patients, with a median age of 30 
years on the day of surgery (IQR 20-37). At the last follow-up, after a median 
of 230 months (IQR 165-262), the median MSTS was 19 (IQR 13-24), the median TESS 
was 79 (IQR 66-87), the median SEV was 38% (IQR 24-53), the median TS was 6 (IQR 
4-7), and the median WAS was 3 (IQR 1-8). Among the variables of gender, surgery 
on the dominant extremity, intraoperative nerve resection, extra-articular tumor 
resection, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and revision surgeries, none were 
associated with a better/lower functional outcome score or return to sports 
activities. However, a higher level of sports performance prior to diagnosis 
(WAS > 10) was associated with a higher level of sports performance 
postoperatively (p = 0.044).

DOI: 10.3390/cancers15133534
PMCID: PMC10340787
PMID: 37444644

Conflict of interest statement: G.G. certifies that he holds a patent for the 
silver coating of a metallic prosthesis, and receives payments from Implantcast 
GmbH (Buxtehude, Germany). C.T. and N.D. certify that they have received travel 
expenses from Implantcast GmbH (Buxtehude, Germany). All other authors declare 
that they have no competing interest.


34. Materials (Basel). 2023 Jul 6;16(13):4849. doi: 10.3390/ma16134849.

Investigation of the Protective Function of a Lignin Coating of Natural Fiber 
Geotextiles against Biodegradation.

Kaya C(1), Stegmaier T(1), Gresser GT(1).

Author information:
(1)Deutsche Institute für Textil- und Faserforschung, Körschtalstraße 26, 73770 
Denkendorf, Germany.

Natural fibers do not have a long life in soil; therefore, they cannot replace 
synthetic textiles in many applications. However, in order to solve 
ever-increasing global environmental problems due to microplastics, more and 
more natural polymers must be used, creating a need for research into the 
sustainable life extension of natural fibers. Lignin is, along with cellulose, a 
main component of wood, and is produced in large quantities as waste during 
paper production. With appropriate processing, lignin can be exploited/used as a 
textile auxiliary to combine the strength-enhancing properties of textiles made 
from natural fibers with the protective properties of a lignin coating. However, 
there is not yet sufficient research on how to integrate lignin into textile 
applications. For this purpose, in this study, we have investigated whether 
thermoplastic lignin can be processed as a surface protective coating. We tested 
lignin as a yarn coating to extend the service life of cellulosic textiles. 
Cotton yarns have been coated with lignin in variations of coating mass, 
characterized and investigated by means of soil burial tests. As the soil burial 
tests conducted in climate chamber and outdoor field environments showed, the 
lifespan of textiles made from natural fibers can be significantly extended with 
a lignin coating. Long-term resilience has been demonstrated in standard burial 
tests. In the outdoor tests, the lignin coating was still fully intact, even 
after about 160 days of burial. The textile materials coated in this way enable 
sustainable applications, especially for geotextiles. They have an adjustable, 
sufficiently long service life; however, they are still biodegradable, and can 
therefore replace some applications, such as vegetating trench/brook slopes, 
with synthetic materials. Lignin-coated textiles have the potential to 
significantly reduce the carbon footprint, reduce not only the dependence on 
petroleum-based products but also the amount of microplastics entering the 
environment. Further research can be conducted to improve lignin compounding in 
terms of other interesting properties for specific textile applications. Process 
optimization could increase the protective effect and further extend the life of 
useful textiles in soil.

DOI: 10.3390/ma16134849
PMCID: PMC10343413
PMID: 37445164

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


35. J Clin Med. 2023 Jun 30;12(13):4438. doi: 10.3390/jcm12134438.

Prognostic Role of Metabolic Exercise Testing in Heart Failure.

Agdamag AC(1), Van Iterson EH(2), Tang WHW(1), Finet JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Heart Failure and Transplantation Medicine, Robert and Suzanne 
Tomsich Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Miller Family Heart, Vascular and 
Thoracic Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.
(2)Section of Preventive Cardiology and Rehabilitation, Robert and Suzanne 
Tomsich Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Miller Family Heart, Vascular and 
Thoracic Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.

Heart failure is a clinical syndrome with significant heterogeneity in 
presentation and severity. Serial risk-stratification and prognostication can 
guide management decisions, particularly in advanced heart failure, when 
progression toward advanced therapies or end-of-life care is warranted. Each 
currently utilized prognostic marker carries its own set of challenges in 
acquisition, reproducibility, accuracy, and significance. Left ventricular 
ejection fraction is foundational for heart failure syndrome classification 
after clinical diagnosis and remains the primary parameter for inclusion in most 
clinical trials; however, it does not consistently correlate with symptoms and 
functional capacity, which are also independently prognostic in this patient 
population. Utilizing the left ventricular ejection fraction as the sole basis 
of prognostication provides an incomplete characterization of this condition and 
is prone to misguide medical decision-making when used in isolation. In this 
review article, we survey and exposit the important role of metabolic exercise 
testing across the heart failure spectrum, as a complementary diagnostic and 
prognostic modality. Metabolic exercise testing, also known as cardiopulmonary 
exercise testing, provides a comprehensive evaluation of the multisystem (i.e., 
neurological, respiratory, circulatory, and musculoskeletal) response to 
exercise performance. These differential responses can help identify the 
predominant contributors to exercise intolerance and exercise symptoms. 
Additionally, the aerobic exercise capacity (i.e., oxygen consumption during 
exercise) is directly correlated with overall life expectancy and prognosis in 
many disease states. Specifically in heart failure patients, metabolic exercise 
testing provides an accurate, objective, and reproducible assessment of the 
overall circulatory sufficiency and circulatory reserve during physical stress, 
being able to isolate the concurrent chronotropic and stroke volume responses 
for a reliable depiction of the circulatory flow rate in real time.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm12134438
PMCID: PMC10342748
PMID: 37445473

Conflict of interest statement: W. H. Wilson Tang is a consultant for Sequana 
Medical, Cardiol Therapeutics, Genomics plc, Zehna Therapeutics, Renovacor, 
WhiteSwell, Kiniksa, Boston Scientific, CardiaTec Biosciences, and Intellia, and 
has received honorarium from Springer Nature and American Board of Internal 
Medicine.


36. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Jun 21;24(13):10452. doi: 10.3390/ijms241310452.

Multi-Organ Morphological Findings in a Humanized Murine Model of Sickle Cell 
Trait.

Trucas M(1), Burattini S(2), Porcu S(3), Simbula M(3), Ristaldi MS(3), Kowalik 
MA(4), Serra MP(1), Gobbi P(2), Battistelli M(2), Perra A(4), Quartu M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Section of Cytomorphology, University of 
Cagliari, Cittadella Universitaria di Monserrato, 09042 Monserrato, Italy.
(2)Department of Biomolecular Sciences, Campus Scientifico "Enrico Mattei", 
University of Urbino Carlo Bo, Via Ca' le Suore 2-Località Crocicchia, 61029 
Urbino, Italy.
(3)Italian National Research Council (CNR)-IRGB, Cittadella Universitaria 
Monserrato, 09042 Monserrato, Italy.
(4)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Unit of Oncology and Molecular Pathology, 
University of Cagliari, Cittadella Universitaria di Monserrato, 09042 
Monserrato, Italy.

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is caused by the homozygous beta-globin gene mutation 
that can lead to ischemic multi-organ damage and consequently reduce life 
expectancy. On the other hand, sickle cell trait (SCT), the heterozygous 
beta-globin gene mutation, is still considered a benign condition. Although the 
mechanisms are not well understood, clinical evidence has recently shown that 
specific pathological symptoms can also be recognized in SCT carriers. So far, 
there are still scant data regarding the morphological modifications referable 
to possible multi-organ damage in the SCT condition. Therefore, after genotypic 
and hematological characterization, by conventional light microscopy and 
transmission electron microscopy (TEM), we investigated the presence of tissue 
alterations in 13 heterozygous Townes mice, one of the best-known animal models 
that, up to now, was used only for the study of the homozygous condition. We 
found that endothelial alterations, as among which the thickening of vessel 
basal lamina, are ubiquitous in the lung, liver, kidney, and spleen of SCT 
carrier mice. The lung shows the most significant alterations, with a distortion 
of the general tissue architecture, while the heart is the least affected. 
Collectively, our findings contribute novel data to the histopathological 
modifications at microscopic and ultrastructural levels, underlying the 
heterozygous beta-globin gene mutation, and indicate the translational 
suitability of the Townes model to characterize the features of multiple organ 
involvement in the SCT carriers.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms241310452
PMCID: PMC10341605
PMID: 37445630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


37. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Jul 2;24(13):11011. doi: 10.3390/ijms241311011.

Tumor Site-Specific Cleavage Improves the Antitumor Efficacy of Antibody-Drug 
Conjugates.

Xu K(1), Han J(1), Yang L(1), Cao L(1), Li S(1), Hong Z(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Medicinal Chemical Biology, College of Life Sciences, 
Nankai University, Tianjin 300071, China.

Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) play important roles in tumor therapy. However, 
traditional ADCs are limited by the extremely large molecular weight of the 
antibody molecules, which results in low permeability into solid tumors. The use 
of small ADCs may be expected to alleviate this problem, but this switch brings 
the new limitation of a greatly shortened blood circulation half-life. Here, we 
propose a new cleavable ADC design with excellent tumor tissue permeability and 
a long circulation half-life by fusing the small ADC ZHER2-MMAE with the Fc 
domain of the antibody for circulation half-life extension, and inserting a 
digestion sequence between them to release the small ADC inside tumors for 
better tumor penetration. The experimental results showed that the designed 
molecule Fc-U-ZHER2-MMAE has a significantly increased blood circulation 
half-life (7.1 h, 59-fold longer) compared to the small ADC ZHER2-MMAE, and 
significantly improved drug accumulation ability at tumor sites compared to the 
conventional full-length antibody-coupled ADC Herceptin-MMAE. These combined 
effects led to Fc-U-ZHER2-MMAE having significantly enhanced tumor treatment 
ability, as shown in mouse models of NCI-N87 gastric cancer and SK-OV-3 ovarian 
cancer, where Fc-U-ZHER2-MMAE treatment achieved complete regression of tumors 
in all or a portion of animals with no obvious side effects and an MTD exceeding 
90 mg/kg. These data demonstrate the therapeutic advantages of this cleavable 
ADC strategy, which could provide a new approach for ADC design.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms241311011
PMCID: PMC10342105
PMID: 37446189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


38. Plants (Basel). 2023 Jun 22;12(13):2410. doi: 10.3390/plants12132410.

Selection of High-Yielding and Stable Genotypes of Barley for the Cold Climate 
in Iran.

Pour-Aboughadareh A(1), Ghazvini H(1), Jasemi SS(1), Mohammadi S(2), Razavi 
SA(3), Chaichi M(4), Ghasemi Kalkhoran M(5), Monirifar H(6), Tajali H(3), 
Fathihafshjani A(7), Bocianowski J(8).

Author information:
(1)Seed and Plant Improvement Institute, Agricultural Research, Education and 
Extension Organization (AREEO), Karaj P.O. Box 31587-77871, Iran.
(2)Field and Horticultural Crops Research Department, Agricultural and Natural 
Resources Research and Education Center of West-Azarbayjan Province, 
Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization, Urmia P.O. Box 
57169-63963, Iran.
(3)Field and Horticultural Crops Research Department, Agricultural and Natural 
Resources Research and Education Center of Khorasan Razavi Province, 
Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization, Mashhad P.O. Box 
91769-83641, Iran.
(4)Field and Horticultural Crops Research Department, Agricultural and Natural 
Resources Research and Education Center of Hamedan Province, Agricultural 
Research, Education and Extension Organization, Hamedan P.O. Box 65199-91169, 
Iran.
(5)Field and Horticultural Crops Research Department, Agricultural and Natural 
Resources Research and Education Center of Ardabil (Moghan) Province, 
Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization, Ardabil P.O. Box 
56951-57451, Iran.
(6)Crop and Horticultural Science Research Department, East Azarbaijan 
Agricultural and Natural Resources Research and Education Center, Agricultural 
Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Tabriz P.O. Box 
51537-15898, Iran.
(7)Field and Horticultural Crops Research Department, Agricultural and Natural 
Resources Research and Education Center of Markazi Province, Agricultural 
Research, Education and Extension Organization, Arak P.O. Box 38135-889, Iran.
(8)Department of Mathematical and Statistical Methods, Poznań University of Life 
Sciences, Wojska Polskiego 28, 60-637 Poznań, Poland.

The interaction between genotypes and environments plays an important role in 
selecting superior genotypes for target locations. The main objectives of the 
present study were to analyze the effect of the genotype-by-environment 
interaction (GEI) and identify superior, newly developed, and promising barley 
genotypes for cold regions in Iran. For these purposes, a set of genotypes 
obtained from breeding programs for cold climates in Iran, along with two 
reference genotypes, were investigated at eight research stations (Tabriz, 
Ardabil, Arak, Miandoab, Mashhad, Jolge Rokh, Karaj, and Hamadan) during two 
consecutive growing seasons (2019-2020 and 2020-2021). The results of the 
freezing test (LT50) showed that most of the tested genotypes had significant 
cold tolerance at the seedling stage. Based on the additive main effect and 
multiplicative interaction (AMMI) analysis, environment (E) and GEI effects 
explained 49.44% and 16.55% of the total variation in grain yield, respectively. 
Using AMMI1 and AMMI2 models, G2 and G20 were found to be superior genotypes in 
terms of grain yield and stability. Moreover, AMMI-based stability parameters 
considered the G20 genotype to be the ideal genotype. A two-plot analysis of the 
genotype-by-environment interaction (GGE) biplot showed that the 16 experimental 
environments were grouped into 2 mega-environments. Of the test environments, 
ARK1 and KAJ2 had the highest discriminating power and representativeness 
ability, and these were identified as ideal environments for testing advanced 
genotypes for yield and stability performance during early barley breeding 
practices in cold areas in Iran. In conclusion, both AMMI and GGE biplot models 
identified several superior genotypes, among which G20, with a high average 
yield relative to the overall average yield and the lowest IPC1 score, was found 
to have high yield stability and is recommended for inclusion in breeding 
programs for cold climates in Iran.

DOI: 10.3390/plants12132410
PMCID: PMC10346509
PMID: 37446971

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


39. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2023 Aug;120(8):2056-2071. doi: 10.1002/bit.28497. Epub
2023  Jul 13.

Synthetic biology in multicellular organisms: Opportunities in nematodes.

Kukhtar D(1), Fussenegger M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosystems Science and Engineering, ETH Zürich, Basel, 
Switzerland.
(2)Faculty of Life Science, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.

Synthetic biology has mainly focused on introducing new or altered functionality 
in single cell systems: primarily bacteria, yeast, or mammalian cells. Here, we 
describe the extension of synthetic biology to nematodes, in particular the 
well-studied model organism Caenorhabditis elegans, as a convenient platform for 
developing applications in a multicellular setting. We review transgenesis 
techniques for nematodes, as well as the application of synthetic biology 
principles to construct nematode gene switches and genetic devices to control 
motility. Finally, we discuss potential applications of engineered nematodes.

© 2023 The Authors. Biotechnology and Bioengineering published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.28497
PMID: 37448225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Curr Urol. 2023 Sep;17(3):184-187. doi: 10.1097/CU9.0000000000000138. Epub
2022  Aug 31.

Prevalence of pelvic floor disorders and the associated quality of life among 
institutionalized and noninstitutionalized elderly women: A cross-sectional 
study.

Souza HDC(1), Pires LMT(1), Vieira GC(2), Castro EAB(3), Moura EA(4), Engelmann 
J(1), Fonseca DS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Programa de Graduação em Fisioterapia, Faculdade de Fisioterapia, 
Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora, Juiz de Fora, Brazil.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências da Reabilitação e Desempenho Físico 
Funcional, Faculdade de Fisioterapia, Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora, Juiz 
de Fora, Brazil.
(3)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Enfermagem, Faculdade de Enfermagem, 
Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora, Juiz de Fora, Brazil.
(4)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Psicologia, Universidade Federal de Juiz de 
Fora, Juiz de Fora, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: An increase in life expectancy has led to an increased elderly 
population. In turn, this aging population is more likely to develop health 
conditions, such as pelvic floor disorders (PFDs). This study aimed to assess 
the prevalence of these disorders and the associated quality of life in 
institutionalized and noninstitutionalized elderly women.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted with 80 female 
participants older than 60 years, divided into 2 groups: institutionalized and 
noninstitutionalized participants. The Pelvic Floor Distress Inventory 
Short-Form and a sociodemographic questionnaire were used. A chi-squared test 
was used to assess the differences in prevalence between groups.
RESULTS: There was no statistically significant difference between the groups in 
the prevalence of PFDs or quality of life. In this study, the prevalence of PFDs 
was higher than that reported previously. In institutionalized women, a higher 
prevalence of PFDs and impaired quality of life were expected, although not 
observed.
CONCLUSIONS: There was a higher prevalence of pelvic disorders and impaired 
quality of life due to these disorders in elderly women.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/CU9.0000000000000138
PMCID: PMC10337817
PMID: 37448617

Conflict of interest statement: No conflict of interest has been declared by the 
authors.


41. Front Public Health. 2023 Jun 28;11:1204497. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1204497.
 eCollection 2023.

Burden of falls attributable to low bone mineral density among people aged 60 
years and over in China from 1990 to 2019.

Fu Y(#)(1)(2)(3), Ba L(#)(1)(2)(3), Lü N(1)(2)(3), Yang H(4), Hong X(4), Zhou 
J(5), Sun Z(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Health Development Research Center, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(2)National Health Commission Key Laboratory of Contraceptives Adverse Reaction 
Surveillance, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(3)Jiangsu Provincial Medical Key Laboratory of Fertility Protection and Health 
Technology Assessment, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(4)Nanjing Municipal Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu, China.
(5)Jiangsu Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu, China.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: Falls in older people have become a major public health, economic and 
societal problem. Osteoporosis predisposes older adults to high risk of falls, 
which were the most common outcome attributable to low bone mineral density 
(LBMD). In this study, we analyze the long-term trends in falls burden 
attributable to LBMD among people aged 60 years and over from 1990 to 2019, 
using data from the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study 
2019 (GBD 2019).
METHODS: Data from GBD 2019 were used to assess the long-term trends in 
mortality and disability-adjusted life-year (DALY) rates by Joinpoint 
regression. The age-period-cohort (APC) model was used to evaluate the effects 
of age, period and cohort on mortality rate of falls attributable to LBMD.
RESULTS: The mortality and DALYs rates of falls attributable to LBMD among 
people aged 60 years and over increased from 1990 to 2019, with average annual 
percentage changes (AAPCs) of 1.74% (95% CI: -1.47 to 2.01%) and 0.99% (95% CI: 
0.80-1.19%), respectively. APC analysis revealed that the mortality rate due to 
LBMD significantly increased among the older people over the age of 75 years. 
The risk of falls mortality due to LBMD during the period of 1990-2019 initially 
declined but later elevated. An overall increasing risk for falls death 
attributable to LBMD was presented across birth cohorts, but in cohorts born 
after 1930, the upward trend has slowed down. The overall net drift per year 
attributable to LBMD was above 0. The corresponding results showed that the 
negative impact of period and cohort effects among males was more pronounced 
than those among females.
CONCLUSIONS: Falls attributable to LBMD remain an ongoing health burden in the 
older people in China, and the mortality has been on the rise from 1990 to 2019, 
especially among the older people aged 80+ years group. The prevention and 
treatment of LBMD should be emphasized, especially among males and oldest-old 
people. Furthermore, there is an urgent need to strengthen the implementation of 
system-wide, integrated and effective public health policies and other health 
interventions in China.

Copyright © 2023 Fu, Ba, Lü, Yang, Hong, Zhou and Sun.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1204497
PMCID: PMC10338097
PMID: 37448662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


42. Heliyon. 2023 Jun 26;9(7):e17659. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e17659. 
eCollection 2023 Jul.

Shelf-life improvement of raw milk using ethanolic extracts of selected 
medicinal plants (Moringa stenopetale, Artemesia anua and MenthaSpicata).

Matewos Orcho A(1), Badessa TS(1), Mekonnen Tura A(1), Dingamo Dirko T(2).

Author information:
(1)Chemistry Department, College of Natural & Computational Sciences, Arba Minch 
University, Arba Minch, Ethiopia.
(2)Biodiversity Conservation and Research Center, College of Natural Science, 
Arba Minch University, Arba Minch, Ethiopia.

The current study was designed to examine the Shelf life extension ability and 
antioxidant activity of the ethanolic extracts processed from Moringa 
stenopetale, Artemesia anua and Mentha Spicata. The raw milk and preservative 
plants was collected from Chencha woreda, Arba Minch. Purposive sampling 
techniques were used for collection of milk and plant samples. The crude 
extracts were isolated from three plant species using Soxhlet extraction method 
and characterized for the presence of bio-active compounds qualitatively and 
quantitatively. He accelerated shelf-life testing method was used to estimate 
the shelf-life of milk samples. Deterioration was tracked using measurements of 
the peroxide values and sensory characteristics. The DPPH free radical 
scavenging assay was used to determine the antioxidant capacity of various 
extracts, and the absorbance was measured at 517 nm. Mentha Spicata had the 
highest TPC value of 2.842 ± 0.109 mg GAE/g, while Moringa stenopetale had the 
lowest at 0.285± 0.0098 mg GAE/g. Similarly, Moringa stenopetale had the 
greatest TTC value of 69.86 ± 1.25 mg QE/g, while Mentha Spicata had the lowest 
at 46.2 ± 0.7 mg QE/g. The extracts of Moringa stenopetale, Artemesia anua, and 
Mentha Spicata showed good antioxidant activities, with IC50 values of 39.490 ± 
0.029, 61.189± 0.058, and 68.062± 0.014 g/mL, respectively. The shelf-life of 
the milk sample improved with Moringa stenopetale was 6.99 days at 27 °C. 
Generally, Moringa stenopetale had the longest shelf life of all the plant 
extracts tested for milk samples.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e17659
PMCID: PMC10336496
PMID: 37449135

Conflict of interest statement: The Authors of this article have no any conflict 
of interest.


43. J Prim Care Community Health. 2023 Jan-Dec;14:21501319231186500. doi: 
10.1177/21501319231186500.

Unveiling the Significance and Challenges of Integrating Prevention Levels in 
Healthcare Practice.

AbdulRaheem Y(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Baghdad, Baghdad, Iraq.

In recent years, there has been a global increase in human life expectancy, but 
preventable morbidity and mortality remain significant concerns. To address 
these issues, preventive healthcare practice has gained importance in various 
healthcare disciplines. Its goal is to maintain and promote health, reduce risk 
factors, diagnose illnesses early, and prevent complications. This approach 
encompasses different stages of disease progression, including primordial 
prevention, primary prevention, secondary prevention, tertiary prevention, and 
quaternary prevention. Primordial prevention focuses on addressing root causes 
and social determinants of diseases to prevent the emergence and development of 
risk factors. Primary prevention aims to prevent diseases before they occur by 
implementing interventions such as vaccinations and health education. Secondary 
prevention focuses on early detection and prompt intervention to prevent the 
progression of diseases. Tertiary prevention manages the consequences of 
diseases by restoring health and providing rehabilitation. Lastly, quaternary 
prevention aims to protect patients from unnecessary medical interventions and 
harm caused by excessive medicalization. Despite the recognition of the 
cost-effectiveness of preventive measures, a significant portion of healthcare 
resources and attention is still allocated to disease management, and only a 
small percentage of individuals receive all recommended preventive services. 
Healthcare providers need to prioritize the implementation of preventive care 
services, even when clinical interventions are necessary, and overcome barriers 
to preventive care. By investing in preventive care and implementing these 
strategies, healthcare practitioners can play a crucial role in disease 
prevention and contribute to the well-being of individuals, families, 
communities, and countries.

DOI: 10.1177/21501319231186500
PMCID: PMC10350749
PMID: 37449436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


44. Neural Regen Res. 2023 Dec;18(12):2619-2622. doi: 10.4103/1673-5374.373662.

Retinoprotective compounds, current efficacy, and future prospective.

Marino R(1), Sappington R(2), Feligioni M(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neuronal Cell Signaling, EBRI Rita Levi-Montalcini Foundation, 
Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, Wake Forest School of Medicine, 
Atrium Health Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center; Department of Ophthalmology, 
Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(3)Laboratory of Neuronal Cell Signaling, EBRI Rita Levi-Montalcini Foundation, 
Rome; Department of Neurorehabilitation Sciences, Casa di Cura Igea, Milan, 
Italy.

Retinal dysfunction is the most common cause of vision loss in several retinal 
disorders. It has been estimated a great increase in these pathologies that are 
becoming more globally widespread and numerous over time, also supported by the 
life expectancy increment. Among different types of retinopathies, we can 
account some that share causes, symptoms, and treatment including diabetic 
retinopathy, age-related macular degeneration, glaucoma, and retinitis 
pigmentosa. Molecular changes, environmental factors, and genetic predisposition 
might be some of the main causes that drive retinal tissue to chronic 
inflammation and neurodegeneration in these retinopathies. The treatments 
available on the market contain compounds that efficiently ameliorate some of 
the important clinical features of these pathologies like stabilization of the 
intraocular pressure, reduction of eye inflammation, control of eye oxidative 
stress which are considered the major molecular mechanisms related to retinal 
dysfunction. Indeed, the most commonly used drugs are anti-inflammatories, such 
as corticosteroids, antioxidant, hypotonic molecules and natural neuroprotective 
compounds. Unfortunately, these drugs, which are fundamental to treating disease 
symptoms, are not capable to cure the pathologies and so they are not 
life-changing for patients. This review provided an overview of current 
treatments on the market, but more interestingly, wants to be a quick window on 
the new treatments that are now in clinical trials. Additionally, it has been 
here highlighted that the recent technical enhancement of the investigation 
methods to identify the various retinopathies causes might be used as a sort of 
"precise medicine" approach to tailor the identification of molecular pathways 
involved and potentially study a dedicated treatment for each patient. This 
approach includes the use of cutting-edge technologies like gene therapy and 
metabolomics.

DOI: 10.4103/1673-5374.373662
PMCID: PMC10358657
PMID: 37449599

Conflict of interest statement: None


45. Intern Med J. 2023 Jul 14. doi: 10.1111/imj.16169. Online ahead of print.

Pregnancy and assisted reproductive technology use in Australian female 
transfusion-dependent haemoglobinopathy patients: a 20-year retrospective 
analysis.

Anderson S(1), Perram J(1), Nelson A(1), Matthews S(1), Gou M(1), Ho PJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(2)Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.

BACKGROUND: In the last few decades, the life expectancy of patients with 
transfusion-dependent thalassaemia (TDT) and sickle cell disease (SCD) has 
improved significantly, in part because of improved iron chelation. Fertility 
challenges and pregnancy complications have historically limited reproductive 
options in this group; however, improved multi-disciplinary care has made 
infertility a chronic disease complication requiring attention. Despite this, 
there are very few reports and no Australian data describing fertility and 
pregnancy outcomes in this population.
AIMS: To identify the rate of assisted reproductive technologies (ART) 
utilisation in our female transfusion-dependent haemoglobinopathy patients and 
to establish the nature of maternal and neonatal complications in this cohort.
METHODS: A 20-year retrospective analysis (1997-2017) at an Australian centre 
captured data on conception rates, use of assisted reproductive techniques 
(ART), and pregnancy and neonatal outcomes in female transfusion-dependent 
haemoglobinopathy patients.
RESULTS: Conception was attempted in 14 women (11 TDT and three SCD) during the 
study period. A total of 28 pregnancies resulting in 25 live births were 
recorded. ART supported 13 conceptions. A positive association was not 
identified between elevated mean serum ferritin and ART use; however, all 
patients with an established diagnosis of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH) 
required ART. Maternal complications included gestational diabetes mellitus and 
post-partum haemorrhage. There were no cardiac complications. Two-thirds of 
women underwent lower segment caesarean section, with prematurity complicating 
20% of births. There were no neonatal or maternal deaths.
CONCLUSION: Pregnancy is an achievable goal for women with transfusion-dependent 
haemoglobinopathies, although the support of ART may be required in a subset of 
patients.

© 2023 Royal Australasian College of Physicians.

DOI: 10.1111/imj.16169
PMID: 37449655


46. Elife. 2023 Jul 14;12:RP84364. doi: 10.7554/eLife.84364.

Opto-RhoGEFs, an optimized optogenetic toolbox to reversibly control Rho GTPase 
activity on a global to subcellular scale, enabling precise control over 
vascular endothelial barrier strength.

Mahlandt EK(1), Palacios Martínez S(1), Arts JJG(1)(2), Tol S(2), van Buul 
JD(1)(2), Goedhart J(1).

Author information:
(1)Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences, Section of Molecular Cytology, van 
Leeuwenhoek Centre for Advanced Microscopy, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.
(2)Molecular Cell Biology Lab at Dept. Molecular Hematology, Sanquin Research 
and Landsteiner Laboratory, Amsterdam, Netherlands.

Update of
    doi: 10.1101/2022.10.17.512253.
    doi: 10.7554/eLife.84364.1.
    doi: 10.7554/eLife.84364.2.

The inner layer of blood vessels consists of endothelial cells, which form the 
physical barrier between blood and tissue. This vascular barrier is tightly 
regulated and is defined by cell-cell contacts through adherens and tight 
junctions. To investigate the signaling that regulates vascular barrier 
strength, we focused on Rho GTPases, regulators of the actin cytoskeleton and 
known to control junction integrity. To manipulate Rho GTPase signaling in a 
temporal and spatial manner we applied optogenetics. Guanine-nucleotide exchange 
factor (GEF) domains from ITSN1, TIAM1, and p63RhoGEF, activating Cdc42, Rac, 
and Rho, respectively, were integrated into the optogenetic recruitment tool 
improved light-induced dimer (iLID). This tool allows for Rho GTPase activation 
at the subcellular level in a reversible and non-invasive manner by recruiting a 
GEF to a specific area at the plasma membrane, The membrane tag of iLID was 
optimized and a HaloTag was applied to gain more flexibility for multiplex 
imaging. The resulting optogenetically recruitable RhoGEFs (Opto-RhoGEFs) were 
tested in an endothelial cell monolayer and demonstrated precise temporal 
control of vascular barrier strength by a cell-cell overlap-dependent, 
VE-cadherin-independent, mechanism. Furthermore, Opto-RhoGEFs enabled precise 
optogenetic control in endothelial cells over morphological features such as 
cell size, cell roundness, local extension, and cell contraction. In conclusion, 
we have optimized and applied the optogenetic iLID GEF recruitment tool, that is 
Opto-RhoGEFs, to study the role of Rho GTPases in the vascular barrier of the 
endothelium and found that membrane protrusions at the junction region can 
rapidly increase barrier integrity independent of VE-cadherin.

© 2023, Mahlandt et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.84364
PMCID: PMC10393062
PMID: 37449837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: EM, SP, JA, ST, Jv, JG No competing interests 
declared


47. Neurol Ther. 2023 Oct;12(5):1491-1515. doi: 10.1007/s40120-023-00518-0. Epub 
2023 Jul 14.

The Development of Ofatumumab, a Fully Human Anti-CD20 Monoclonal Antibody for 
Practical Use in Relapsing Multiple Sclerosis Treatment.

Hauser SL(1), Kappos L(2), Bar-Or A(3), Wiendl H(4), Paling D(5), Williams M(6), 
Gold R(7), Chan A(8), Milo R(9), Das Gupta A(10), Karlsson G(10), Sullivan 
R(10), Graham G(10), Merschhemke M(10), Häring DA(10), Vermersch P(11).

Author information:
(1)UCSF Weill Institute for Neurosciences, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA. Stephen.Hauser@ucsf.edu.
(2)Research Center for Clinical Neuroimmunology and Neuroscience Basel (RC2NB) 
and MS Center, and Departments of Medicine, Clinical Research, Biomedicine and 
Biomedical Engineering, University Hospital of Basel, University of Basel, 
Basel, Switzerland.
(3)Center for Neuroinflammation and Experimental Therapeutics and Department of 
Neurology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology with Institute of Translational Neurology, University 
Hospital Münster, Münster, Germany.
(5)Sheffield Institute of Translational Neuroscience, Sheffield Teaching 
Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Sheffield, UK.
(6)Joi Life Wellness Multiple Sclerosis Neurology Center, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, St Josef-Hospital/Ruhr-University Bochum, Bochum, 
Germany.
(8)Department of Neurology, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, University of 
Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(9)Department of Neurology, Barzilai Medical Center, Ashkelon/Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel.
(10)Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland.
(11)Univ. Lille, INSERM U1172 LilNCog, CHU Lille, FHU Precise, 59000, Lille, 
France.

The importance of B cells in multiple sclerosis (MS) has been demonstrated 
through the advent of B-cell-depleting anti-CD20 antibody therapies. Ofatumumab 
is the first fully human anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody (mAb) developed and 
tested for subcutaneous (SC) self-administration at monthly doses of 20 mg, and 
has been approved in the US, UK, EU, and other regions and countries worldwide 
for the treatment of relapsing MS. The development goal of ofatumumab was to 
obtain a highly efficacious anti-CD20 therapy, with a safety and tolerability 
profile that allows for self-administration by MS patients at home and a 
positive benefit-risk balance for use in the broad relapsing MS population. This 
development goal was enabled by the unique binding site, higher affinity to B 
cells, and higher potency of ofatumumab compared to previous anti-CD20 mAbs; 
these properties of ofatumumab facilitate rapid B-cell depletion and maintenance 
with a low dose at a low injection volume (20 mg/0.4 ml). The high potency in 
turn enables the selective targeting of B cells that reside in the lymphatic 
system via subcutaneous (SC) administration. Through a comprehensive 
dose-finding program in two phase 2 studies (one intravenous and one SC) and 
model simulations, it was found that safety and tolerability can be further 
improved, and the risk of systemic injection-related reactions (IRRs) minimized, 
by avoiding doses ≥ 30 mg, and by reaching initial and rapid B-cell depletion 
via stepwise weekly administration of ofatumumab at Weeks 0, 1, and 2 (instead 
of a single high dose). Once near-complete B-cell depletion is reached, it can 
be maintained by monthly doses of 20 mg/0.4 ml. Indeed, in phase 3 trials 
(ASCLEPIOS I/II), rapid and sustained near-complete B-cell depletion (largely 
independent of body weight, race and other factors) was observed with this 
dosing regimen, which resulted in superior efficacy of ofatumumab versus 
teriflunomide on relapse rates, disability worsening, neuronal injury (serum 
neurofilament light chain), and imaging outcomes. Likely due to its fully human 
nature, ofatumumab has a low immunogenic risk profile-only 2 of 914 patients 
receiving ofatumumab in ASCLEPIOS I/II developed anti-drug antibodies-and this 
may also underlie the infrequent IRRs (20% with ofatumumab vs. 15% with the 
placebo injection in the teriflunomide arm) that were mostly (99.8%) mild to 
moderate in severity. The overall rates of infections and serious infections in 
patients treated with ofatumumab were similar to those in patients treated with 
teriflunomide (51.6% vs. 52.7% and 2.5% vs. 1.8%, respectively). The 
benefit-risk profile of ofatumumab was favorable compared to teriflunomide in 
the broad RMS population, and also in the predefined subgroups of both recently 
diagnosed and/or treatment-naïve patients, as well as previously 
disease-modifying therapy-treated patients. Interim data from the ongoing 
extension study (ALITHIOS) have shown that long-term treatment with ofatumumab 
up to 4 years is well-tolerated in RMS patients, with no new safety risks 
identified. In parallel to the phase 3 trials in which SC administration was 
carried out with a pre-filled syringe, an autoinjector pen for more convenient 
self-administration of the ofatumumab 20 mg dose was developed and is available 
for use in clinical practice.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40120-023-00518-0
PMCID: PMC10444716
PMID: 37450172

Conflict of interest statement: Stephen L. Hauser has received personal 
compensation from Annexon, Alector, Accure, and Neurona; he has also received 
travel reimbursement from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and Novartis for CD20-related 
meetings and presentations. Ludwig Kappos has received no personal compensation. 
His institutions (University Hospital Basel/Stiftung Neuroimmunology and 
Neuroscience Basel) have received the following exclusively for research 
support: steering committee, advisory board and consultancy fees (Abbvie, 
Actelion, Auriga Vision AG, Bayer HealthCare, Biogen, Celgene, df-mp [Dörries 
Frank-Molnia & Pohlman], Eli Lilly, EMD Serono, Genentech, Genzyme, Glaxo Smith 
Kline, Janssen, Merck, Minoryx, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi, Santhera, Senda 
Biosciences, Shionogi and Wellmera AG); speaker fees (Bristol Myrers Squibb, 
Celgene, Janssen, Merck, Novartis, and Roche); support for educational 
activities (Biogen, Desitin, Novartis, Sanofi and Teva); license fees for 
Neurostatus products; and grants (European Union, Innosuisse, Novartis, Roche, 
Swiss MS Society and Swiss National Research Foundation). Amit Bar-Or has 
participated as a speaker in meetings sponsored by, and received consulting fees 
and/or grant support from, Accure, Atara Biotherapeutics, Biogen, 
BMS/Celgene/Receptos, GlaxoSmithKline, Gossamer, Janssen/Actelion, Medimmune, 
Merck/EMD Serono, Novartis, Roche/Genentech, Sanofi Genzyme. Heinz Wiendl has 
received honoraria for acting as a member of scientific advisory boards for 
Biogen, Evgen, Genzyme, MedDay Pharmaceuticals, Merck Serono, Novartis, Roche 
Pharma AG, and Sanofi-Aventis, as well as speaker honoraria and travel support 
from Alexion, Biogen, Cognomed, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Gemeinnützige 
Hertie-Stiftung, Merck Serono, Novartis, Roche Pharma AG, Genzyme, Teva, and 
WebMD Global. Heinz Wiendl is acting as a paid consultant for AbbVie, Actelion, 
Biogen, IGES, Johnson & Johnson, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, and the Swiss 
Multiple Sclerosis Society. His research is funded by the German Ministry for 
Education and Research (BMBF), Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG), Else 
Kröner Fresenius Foundation, Fresenius Foundation, the European Union, Hertie 
Foundation, NRW Ministry of Education and Research, Interdisciplinary Center for 
Clinical Studies (IZKF) Muenster and RE Children’s Foundation, Biogen, 
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH, Roche Pharma AG, and Sanofi-Genzyme. David Paling has 
participated as a speaker in meetings sponsored by, and received consulting fees 
from, Biogen, Celgene, Janssen, MedDay, Merck, Novartis, Sanofi Genzyme and 
Roche. Mitzi J. Williams has received consulting fees from EMD Serono, Horizon, 
Novartis, Alexion, Biogen, Sanofi, Genentech, Octave Biosciences, TG 
Therapeutics, Janssen, and Bristol Myers Squibb; and speaking fees from 
Genentech, Biogen, EMD Serono and TG Therapeutics. Ralf Gold has received 
compensation for serving as a consultant or speaker from Bayer HealthCare, 
Biogen Idec, Merck Serono, Novartis and Teva Neuroscience. He, or the 
institution he works for, has received research support from Bayer HealthCare, 
Biogen Idec, Merck Serono, Novartis and Teva Neuroscience. He has also received 
honoraria as a Journal Editor from SAGE and Thieme Verlag. Andrew Chan has 
received speakers’/board honoraria from Actelion (Janssen/J&J), Alexion, 
Almirall, Bayer, Biogen, Celgene (BMS), Merck KgaA, Novartis, Roche, Sanofi, and 
Teva, all for hospital research funds. He received research support from Biogen, 
Roche, Sanofi and UCB. Ron Milo has received research support from Bayer, 
Medison, Merck, Novartis and Teva; and honoraria or consulting fees from 
Actelion, Bayer, Biogen, Genzyme, Medison, Merck, Neopharm, Novartis, Roche, 
Sanofi, Teva and TG-Therapeutics. Patrick Vermersch has received honoraria and 
consulting fees from Biogen, Sanofi, Teva, Novartis, Merck, Imcyse, Roche and AB 
Science, and research support from Biogen, Sanofi and Merck. Ayan Das Gupta, 
Goeril Karlsson, Roseanne Sullivan, Gordon Graham, Martin Merschhemke and Dieter 
A. Häring are employees of Novartis.


48. Anim Cogn. 2023 Sep;26(5):1643-1647. doi: 10.1007/s10071-023-01810-0. Epub
2023  Jul 14.

Injury shortens life expectancy in ants and affects some risk-related decisions 
of workers.

Turza F(1)(2), Miler K(3).

Author information:
(1)Doctoral School of Exact and Natural Sciences, Jagiellonian University, Prof. 
S. Łojasiewicza 11, 30-348, Kraków, Poland. filip.turza@uj.edu.pl.
(2)Institute of Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Biology, Jagiellonian 
University, Gronostajowa 7, 30-387, Kraków, Poland. filip.turza@uj.edu.pl.
(3)Institute of Systematics and Evolution of Animals, Polish Academy of 
Sciences, Sławkowska 17, 31-016, Kraków, Poland.

The Formica cinerea ants are known to be highly territorial and aggressively 
defend their nest and foraging areas against other ants. During the foraging, 
workers engage in large-scale battles with other colonies of ants and injuries 
often occur in the process. Such injuries open the body up to pathologies and 
can lead to costs expressed in lower survival. Here, we addressed the 
significance of injury in dictating decisions related to engagement in risky 
behavior in ants (i.e., rescue and aggression). We manipulated the life 
expectancies of F. cinerea workers by injury and found that the survival of 
injured workers was shorter compared to the intact individuals. Furthermore, we 
found that injured workers discriminated between the intact and injured 
nestmates and showed more rescue behavior toward intact individuals. These 
rescue actions were expressed as digging around the trapped ant in need of 
rescue, pulling at its body parts, transporting the sand covering it, and biting 
the thread entrapping it. In turn, intact and injured workers showed similar and 
high levels of aggression toward heterospecifics. Our findings highlight the 
role of behavioral context in the studies devoted to the decision-making 
processes among social insects and the importance of life expectancy in their 
behavioral patterns.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-023-01810-0
PMCID: PMC10442280
PMID: 37450227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests to 
declare that are relevant to the content of this article.


49. JAMA Health Forum. 2023 Jul 7;4(7):e231805. doi: 
10.1001/jamahealthforum.2023.1805.

Associations Between Neighborhood-Level Racial Residential Segregation, 
Socioeconomic Factors, and Life Expectancy in the US.

Khan SS(1)(2), McGowan C(2), Seegmiller LE(1), Kershaw KN(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Northwestern University 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois.
(2)Department of Preventive Medicine, Northwestern University Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, Illinois.

Plain Language Summary: This cross-sectional study evaluates the association 
between neighborhood-level residential segregation and life expectancy and aims 
to determine the proportion mediated by representative neighborhood-level 
socioeconomic factors.

DOI: 10.1001/jamahealthforum.2023.1805
PMCID: PMC10349335
PMID: 37450297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

