Sampaolesi M(1), Fulle S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Histology, Forensic Medicine and Orthopaedics, 
Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy; Department of Development and 
Regeneration, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium; IIM-Interuniversity Institute of 
Myology. maurilio.sampaolesi@uniroma1.it.
(2)Department of Neuroscience Imaging and Clinical Sciences, University "G. 
d'Annunzio" of Chieti-Pescara, Chieti, Italy; IIM-Interuniversity Institute of 
Myology. s.fulle@unich.it.

After two years of conferences on a virtual platform due to the COVID-19 
pandemic, finally, the 19th annual meeting of the Interuniversity Institute of 
Myology (IIM) has returned to the heart of central Italy, in Assisi, an 
important cultural hub, which boasts a wide range of historic buildings and 
museums. This event brought together scientists from around the world providing 
a valuable opportunity to discuss scientific issues in the field of myology. 
Traditionally, the meeting particularly encourages the participation of young 
trainees, and the panel discussions were moderated by leading international 
scientists, making this a special event where young researchers had the 
opportunity to talk to prestigious scientists in a friendly and informal 
environment. Furthermore, the IIM young researchers' winners for the best oral 
and poster presentations, became part of the IIM Young Committee, involved in 
the scientific organization of sessions and roundtables and for the invitation 
of a main speaker for the IIM 2023 meeting. The four keynote speakers for the 
IIM Conference 2022 presented new insights into the role of multinucleation 
during muscle growth and disease, the long-range distribution of giant mRNAs in 
skeletal muscle, human skeletal muscle remodelling from type 2 diabetic patients 
and the genome integrity and cell identity in adult muscle stem cells. The 
congress hosted young PhD students and trainees and included 6 research 
sessions, two poster sessions, round tables and socio-cultural events, promoting 
science outreach and interdisciplinary works that are advancing new directions 
in the field of myology. All other attendees had the opportunity to showcase 
their work through poster presentations. The IIM meeting 2022 was also part of 
an advanced training event, which included dedicated round tables and a training 
session of Advanced Myology on the morning of 23 October, reserved for students 
under 35 enrolled in the training school, receiving a certificate of attendance. 
This course proposed lectures and roundtable discussions coordinated by 
internationally outstanding speakers on muscle metabolism, pathophysiological 
regeneration and emerging therapeutic approaches for muscle degenerations. As in 
past editions, all participants shared their results, opinions, and perspectives 
in understanding developmental and adult myogenesis with novel insights into 
muscle biology in pathophysiological conditions. We report here the abstracts of 
the meeting that describe the basic, translational, and clinical research and 
certainly contribute to the vast field of myology in an innovative and original 
way.

DOI: 10.4081/ejtm.2023.11321
PMCID: PMC10388608
PMID: 37326466

Conflict of interest statement: We confirm that we have read the Journal’s 
position on issues involved in ethical publication and affirm that this report 
is consistent with those guidelines. The 19th annual meeting of the 
Interuniversity Institute of Myology (IIM), founded in 2004 by several Italian 
universities, was held from 20 to 23 October 2022. Due to the greatly improved 
COVID-19 pandemic situation, the meeting was held in Assisi in the Umbria region 
of central Italy. The desire to meet in person in the official headquarters of 
the last IIM meetings attracted many participants, which were 118 scientists 
coming from different countries, including Italy, Belgium, France, Denmark, USA 
and Brazil. This year we had four main talks and 33 talks selected from the 
submitted contributions and 42 posters were the basis for a lively scientific 
debate, mainly aimed at promoting the active participation of the young 
participants, as typical of all IIM meetings. Keynote speakers were Doug Millay 
(Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati Cincinnati, OH, USA); Scott 
Q. Harper (Nationwide Children's Hospital, Ohio State University College of 
Medicine Columbus, OH, USA); Jean Farup (Dept of Biomedicine, Aarhus University 
Aarhus, Denmark); Chiara Mozzetta (Institute of Molecular Biology and Pathology, 
National Research Council of Italy, Rome, Italy). The 4th edition of the 
Advanced Training Course in Advanced Myology within the IIM meeting was 
organized through a collaboration with the University of Perugia, Italy. During 
the training course, fourteen participants under the age of 35 attended lectures 
and round tables with the international speakers, in addition to be exposed to 
the fully immersion the IIM meeting itself. This year, the panel discussions 
were on skeletal muscle aging (discussants: Doug Millay, Sestina Falcone, and 
Antonio Musarò) and environment (discussants: Jean Farup and Scott Q. Harper). 
To further stimulate the involvement of the young participants, one of the 
keynote speakers and the theme of the roundtables were selected by the IIM Young 
Committee, composed by trainees who won prizes in past editions of the IIM 
meeting. Also in this IIM edition, Gloria Antonini, Parent Project Italy, 
brought the voice of patients affected by Duchenne and Becker Muscular 
Dystrophies. The industry was represented by Barbara Canonico who spoke about 
the world of extracellular vesicles1 and their cargos, a technical talk promoted 
by Prodotti Gianni. Both Parent Project and Prodotti Gianni sponsored the 
meeting. The scientific topics of the presentations in an interdisciplinary 
fashion covered several aspects of the skeletal muscle biology including, muscle 
genetics and epigenetics, stem cells and regenerative medicine, muscle and 
exercise, signaling and metabolism, clinical studies and therapeutic approaches 
to muscle diseases. The first keynote lecture was given by Douglas P. Millay, 
Professor at Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati, USA. The title 
of his talk was: Mechanisms of myoblast fusion and role of multinucleation 
during muscle development, growth, and disease. He presented the latest study of 
his team about the biochemical activities of the myogenic fusogens, deciphering 
the role of multinucleation for myofiber growth and adaptations. These results 
include the recent results on myomerger fusogenic activity that requires its two 
ectodomain helices, responsible for the membrane-stressing activity during the 
final step of myoblast fusion spatially and temporally regulated2. The second 
keynote lecturer, Dr. Harper’s primary research focus at Nationwide Children’s 
has been developing gene therapies to treat neuromuscular and neurological 
disorders. Scott Harper is Professor of Pediatrics at the Ohio State University 
College of Medicine, USA and serves as chief scientific adviser at Armatus Bio, 
a gene therapy startup company in Columbus, Ohio. He was invited by the IIM 
Young Committee and his talk was entitled: Development of DUX4 inhibition 
therapies for Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD). He presented recent 
data from his lab on a meticulous screening to identify a subset of 
serine/threonine phosphomimetic mutants and an arginine methylation null mutant 
which protected cells against double homeobox 4 protein (DUX4) -mediated 
toxicity in FSHD patients3. In follow-up studies, they demonstrated the 
therapeutic promise of targeting DUX4 post-translational modifications that 
could protect against DUX4-induced cell death in FSHD myoblasts. The third 
Keynote lecture was presented by Jean Farup, assistant professor at Dept of 
Public Health Aarhus University, Denmark. In his talk entitled “Human skeletal 
muscle fibro-adipogenic progenitors in degeneration and regeneration”, he 
focused on the human muscle microenvironment and the role of fibro-adipogenic 
progenitors (FAPs) in skeletal muscle homeostasis. His work highlighted the 
important role of FAP subsets in human skeletal muscle during chronic muscle 
degeneration, focusing on the crosstalk between FAPs and macrophages in 
regulating immune cell infiltration and local tissue inflammation. Indeed, type 
2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is associated with impaired skeletal muscle function 
and FAPsCD90+ hyperproliferative population and production of extracellular 
matrix. In general, FAP levels return to the baseline upon resolution of the 
muscle injury and FAPCD90+ proliferation was reduced by in vitro treatment with 
metformin. These data provided new insight into the dynamics and multiple roles 
of FAPs in human T2DM skeletal muscle. The fourth keynote lecture was given by 
Chiara Mozzetta, a group leader at Institute of Molecular Biology and Pathology 
(IBPM) of the National Research Council of Italy, located at University Sapienza 
of Rome, Italy. The title of her talk was Role of peripheral heterochromatin in 
the maintenance of fibro-adipogenic progenitors’ genome integrity and cell 
identity and she gave an overview on the heterochromatic lamina modulation 
during cell division. She showed that PR domain containing 16 (Prdm16) mediates 
FAP developmental capacities through the lamina-associated domain organization 
and heterochromatin sequestration at the nuclear periphery. Prdm16 cooperates 
with the H3K9 methyltransferases G9a/GLP to mediate tethering and silencing of 
myogenic genes, thus repressing the myogenic fate in FAPs5. This information 
could be relevant for FAP reprogramming during muscle regeneration in dystrophic 
muscles paving the way of possible therapeutic approach. Also in this edition, 
the voice of patients affected by Duchenne and Becker Muscular Dystrophy (DMD 
and BMD) was brought by Gloria Antonini, from the Parent Project association 
that it is indeed a social promotion association (aps) founded in Italy in 1996 
(after the USA and the Netherlands) and currently is in touch with over 800 
families of DMD and BMD patients. This relatively young aps economically 
supports research and dissemination of the multidisciplinary approaches to treat 
patients that so far doubled the life expectancy of DMD patients improving 
overall the quality of life. A technical talk promoted by the sponsor Prodotti 
Gianni introduced the world of extracellular vesicles, highlighting recent 
results and troubleshooting in emerging technologies. Among the submitted 
abstracts, 33 talks were selected covering all the topics of the meeting, 
ranging from basic muscle function and repair to the effects of exercise, 
molecular mechanisms, and possible therapeutic approaches to muscle 
degeneration. The speakers came from Italy, Belgium, France and Brazil. The 
quality of the interventions was very high creating intense discussions among 
the participants of all ages. Overall, 42 posters were discussed with good 
interactions between presenter and attendees. At the end of the meeting, prizes 
were awarded to young researchers (less than 35 years old) based on the 
evaluation of groups of scientists selected by the IIM scientific board. For the 
best talks the prizes were awarded to David Osamwonuyi Amadsun and Laura 
Yedigaryan, while Federica Esposito won the prize for best poster and the one 
for the best active participation was awarded to Sara Roccabianca. Finally, on 
22/10/2022, during the 19th annual IIM conference, the elections for the renewal 
of the Director and the scientific council were held and all conference 
participants had the right to vote. Sorci Guglielmo, Musarò Antonio, Falcone 
Sestina, Latella Lucia, Penna Fabio, Mocciaro Emanuele, Urciuolo Anna, Palacios 
Daniela, Riuzzi Francesca were elected by secret ballot. The scientific council 
has elected Doctor Guglielmo Sorci director of the IIM for the three-year period 
2022-2025. Subsequently, pursuant to Art. 5 of the Statute, Alessandra Sacco, 
Davide Gabellini, Maurilio Sampaolesi, and Stefania Fulle joined the IIM 
Scientific Council as associate members. After the pandemic period, the 19th IIM 
Meeting managed once again highlighted the participation of young researchers, 
bringing together many mythologists, with interests from basic science to 
preclinical and clinical studies formulation of new hypotheses and new 
international collaborations. Without a doubt, the young researchers of IIM 
meeting, the young clinicians of Padua Muscle Days (PMD, a meeting more oriented 
towards advanced translational myology) and the young authors of articles 
printed electronically in the European Journal of Translational Myology (EJTM) 
shape the future of research in myology. Here, the abstracts of the 19th IIM 
meeting show the relevant research contribution of this community of myologists 
in anticipation of the 20th IIM Congress, scheduled for October 12-15, 2023, to 
be held in Assisi, Italy.


659. Endoscopy. 2023 Nov;55(11):981-990. doi: 10.1055/a-2111-5935. Epub 2023 Jun
16.

Endoscopic screening of the upper gastrointestinal tract for second primary 
tumors in patients with head and neck cancer in a Western country.

van Tilburg L(1), van de Ven SEM(1), de Jonge PJF(1), de Graaf W(1), Spaander 
MCW(1), Nikkessen S(1), Hardillo JA(2), Sewnaik A(2), Monserez DA(2), Mast H(3), 
Keereweer S(2), Bruno MJ(1), Baatenburg de Jong RJ(2), Koch AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, Erasmus MC 
Cancer Institute, University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) can 
develop second primary tumors (SPTs) in the esophagus. Endoscopic screening 
could lead to detection of SPTs at early stages and improve survival.
METHODS: We performed a prospective endoscopic screening study in patients with 
curably treated HNSCC diagnosed between January 2017-July 2021 in a Western 
country. Screening was performed synchronously (< 6 months) or metachronously 
(≥ 6 months) after HNSCC diagnosis. Routine imaging for HNSCC consisted of 
flexible transnasal endoscopy with positron emission tomography/computed 
tomography or magnetic resonance imaging, depending on primary HNSCC location. 
The primary outcome was prevalence of SPTs, defined as presence of esophageal 
high grade dysplasia or squamous cell carcinoma.
RESULTS: 202 patients (mean age 65 years, 80.7 % male) underwent 250 screening 
endoscopies. HNSCC was located in the oropharynx (31.9 %), hypopharynx (26.9 %), 
larynx (22.2 %), and oral cavity (18.5 %). Endoscopic screening was performed 
within 6 months (34.0 %), 6 months to 1 year (8.0 %), 1-2 years (33.6 %), and 
2-5 years (24.4 %) after HNSCC diagnosis. We detected 11 SPTs in 10 patients 
(5.0 %, 95 %CI 2.4 %-8.9 %) during synchronous (6/85) and metachronous (5/165) 
screening. Most patients had early stage SPTs (90 %) and were treated with 
curative intent with endoscopic resection (80 %). No SPTs in screened patients 
were detected with routine imaging for HNSCC before endoscopic screening.
CONCLUSION: In 5 % of patients with HNSCC, an SPT was detected with endoscopic 
screening. Endoscopic screening should be considered in selected HNSCC patients 
to detect early stage SPTs, based on highest SPT risk and life expectancy 
according to HNSCC and comorbidities.

The Author(s). This is an open access article published by Thieme under the 
terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, permitting unrestricted use, 
distribution, and reproduction so long as the original work is properly cited. 
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

DOI: 10.1055/a-2111-5935
PMCID: PMC10602659
PMID: 37328150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


660. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2023 Jul;30(34):82686-82695. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-023-28225-1. Epub 2023 Jun 17.

Temporal trend and global burden of type 2 diabetes attributable to non-optimal 
temperature, 1990-2019: an analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

Liu Y(1)(2), Wang D(1)(2), Huang X(1)(2), Liang R(1)(2), Tu Z(3), You X(1)(2), 
Zhou M(1)(2), Chen W(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, School of Public Health, 
Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 
430030, Hubei, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Environment and Health, Ministry of Education & Ministry of 
Environmental Protection, and State Key Laboratory of Environmental Health, 
School of Public Health, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science 
and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, Hubei, China.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Ministry of Education Key 
Laboratory of Environment and Health, School of Public Health, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, Hubei, 
China.
(4)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, School of Public Health, 
Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 
430030, Hubei, China. wchen@mails.tjmu.edu.cn.
(5)Key Laboratory of Environment and Health, Ministry of Education & Ministry of 
Environmental Protection, and State Key Laboratory of Environmental Health, 
School of Public Health, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science 
and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, Hubei, China. wchen@mails.tjmu.edu.cn.

Exposure to hot or cold temperatures was reported to be associated with 
increased mortality and morbidity of type 2 diabetes, but few studies have 
estimated the temporal trend and global burden of type 2 diabetes attributable 
to non-optimal temperature. Based on the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019, we 
collected data on the numbers and rates of deaths and disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs) of type 2 diabetes attributed to non-optimal temperature. The 
joinpoint regression analysis was used to estimate the temporal trends of the 
age-standardized rate of mortality and DALYs from 1990 to 2019 by average annual 
percentage change (AAPC). From 1990 to 2019, globally, the numbers of deaths and 
DALYs of type 2 diabetes attributable to non-optimal temperature increased by 
136.13% (95% (uncertainty interval) UI: 87.04% to 277.76%) and 122.26% (95% UI: 
68.77% to 275.59%), with the number from 0.05 (95% UI: 0.02 to 0.07) million and 
0.96 (95% UI: 0.37 to 1.51) million in 1990 to 0. 11 (95% UI: 0.07 to 0.15) 
million and 2.14 (95% UI: 1.35 to 3.13) million in 2019. The age-standardized 
mortality rate (ASMR) and DALYs rate (ASDR) of type 2 diabetes attributable to 
non-optimal temperature showed an increasing trend in the high temperature 
effect and lower (low, low-middle and middle) socio-demographic index (SDI) 
region, with AAPCs of 3.17%, 1.24%, 1.61%, and 0.79% (all P < 0.05), 
respectively. The greatest increased ASMR and ASDR were observed in Central 
Asia, followed by Western Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. Meanwhile, the 
contribution of type 2 diabetes burden attributable to high temperature 
gradually increased globally and in five SDI regions. In addition, the global 
age-specific rate of mortality and DALYs of type 2 diabetes attributable to 
non-optimal temperature for both men and women almost increased with age in 
2019. The global burden of type 2 diabetes attributable to non-optimal 
temperature increased from 1990 to 2019, particularly in high temperature, 
regions with lower SDI, and the older population. Appropriate temperature 
interventions are necessary to curb climate change and increasing diabetes.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-023-28225-1
PMID: 37328723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Pharmacoeconomics. 2023 Oct;41(10):1275-1286. doi:
10.1007/s40273-023-01290-7.  Epub 2023 Jun 17.

Context-Specific Estimation of Future Unrelated Medical Costs and Their Impact 
on Cost-Effectiveness Analyses.

Epstein N(1), Simon-Tuval T(2), Berchenko Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, Faculty of Engineering 
Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel.
(2)Department of Health Policy and Management, Guilford Glazer Faculty of 
Business and Management and Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of 
the Negev, P.O Box 653, 8410501, Beer-Sheva, Israel. simont@bgu.ac.il.

OBJECTIVES: This study constructed and applied procedures for the estimation of 
unrelated future medical costs (UFMC) of women with breast cancer in Israel (as 
a case study) and examined the influence of including UFMC in cost-effectiveness 
analyses (CEAs).
METHODS: Part I consisted of a retrospective cohort study based on patient-level 
claims data of both patients with breast cancer and matched controls during 14 
years of follow-up. UFMC were estimated as (a) the annual average all-cause 
healthcare costs of the control subjects, and (b) as predicted values based on a 
generalized linear model (GLM) adjusted to patients' characteristics. Part II 
consisted of a CEA performed using a Markov simulation model comparing regimens 
of chemotherapy with/without trastuzumab, both excluding and including UFMC and 
for each of the UFMC estimates separately. All costs were adjusted to 2019 
prices. Costs and QALYs were discounted at a yearly rate of 3%.
RESULTS: The average annual healthcare costs in the control group were $2328 (± 
$5662). The corresponding incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was 
$53,411/QALY and $55,903/QALY, when UFMC were excluded or included, 
respectively. Hence, trastuzumab was not considered cost-effective compared with 
a threshold of willingness-to-pay of $37,000 per QALY, regardless of the 
inclusion of UFMC. When UFMC were estimated on the basis of the prediction 
model, the ICERs were $37,968/QALY and $39,033/QALY, when UFMC were excluded or 
included, respectively. Thus, in this simulation, trastuzumab was not considered 
cost-effective, independent of the inclusion of UFMC.
CONCLUSION: Our case study revealed that the inclusion of UFMC had modest effect 
on the ICERs, and thus did not alter the conclusion. Thus, we should estimate 
context-specific UFMC if they are expected to change the ICERs significantly, 
and transparently report the corresponding assumptions to uphold the integrity 
and reliability of the economic evaluation.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-023-01290-7
PMID: 37329391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Diabetologia. 2023 Sep;66(9):1643-1654. doi: 10.1007/s00125-023-05946-z.
Epub  2023 Jun 17.

Plasma proteomic signatures of a direct measure of insulin sensitivity in two 
population cohorts.

Zanetti D(1)(2), Stell L(2)(3), Gustafsson S(4), Abbasi F(1)(5), Tsao 
PS(1)(2)(6), Knowles JW(1)(5)(6)(7); RISC Investigators; Zethelius B(8), Ärnlöv 
J(9)(10), Balkau B(11), Walker M(12), Lazzeroni LC(3)(13), Lind L(14), Petrie 
JR(15), Assimes TL(16)(17)(18)(19)(20).

Collaborators: Ferrannini E, Kozakova M, Gastaldelli A, Coppack S, Balkau B, 
Dekker J, Walker M, Mari A, Tura A, Laville M, Beck H, Nolan J, Bolli G, Golay 
A, Konrad T, Nilsson P, Melander O, Mingrone G, Perry C, Petrie J, Krebs M, 
Gabriel R, Mitrakou A, Piatti P, Lalic N, Laakso M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(2)VA Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical Data Science, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(5)Stanford Diabetes Research Center, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA, USA.
(6)Stanford Cardiovascular Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA, USA.
(7)Stanford Prevention Research Center, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA, USA.
(8)Department of Public Health/Geriatrics, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(9)Division of Family Medicine and Primary Care, Department of Neurobiology, 
Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.
(10)Department of Health and Social Studies, Dalarna University, Falun, Sweden.
(11)Clinical Epidemiology, Centre for Research in Epidemiology and Population 
Health, Inserm U1018, Villejuif, France.
(12)Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(13)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, USA.
(14)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden. 
lars.lind@medsci.uu.se.
(15)School of Health and Wellbeing, College of Medical, Veterinary and Life 
Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK. John.Petrie@glasgow.ac.uk.
(16)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA. tassimes@stanford.edu.
(17)VA Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, CA, USA. tassimes@stanford.edu.
(18)Stanford Diabetes Research Center, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA, USA. tassimes@stanford.edu.
(19)Stanford Cardiovascular Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA, USA. tassimes@stanford.edu.
(20)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA. tassimes@stanford.edu.

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: The euglycaemic-hyperinsulinaemic clamp (EIC) is the reference 
standard for the measurement of whole-body insulin sensitivity but is laborious 
and expensive to perform. We aimed to assess the incremental value of 
high-throughput plasma proteomic profiling in developing signatures correlating 
with the M value derived from the EIC.
METHODS: We measured 828 proteins in the fasting plasma of 966 participants from 
the Relationship between Insulin Sensitivity and Cardiovascular disease (RISC) 
study and 745 participants from the Uppsala Longitudinal Study of Adult Men 
(ULSAM) using a high-throughput proximity extension assay. We used the least 
absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) approach using clinical 
variables and protein measures as features. Models were tested within and across 
cohorts. Our primary model performance metric was the proportion of the M value 
variance explained (R2).
RESULTS: A standard LASSO model incorporating 53 proteins in addition to 
routinely available clinical variables increased the M value R2 from 0.237 (95% 
CI 0.178, 0.303) to 0.456 (0.372, 0.536) in RISC. A similar pattern was observed 
in ULSAM, in which the M value R2 increased from 0.443 (0.360, 0.530) to 0.632 
(0.569, 0.698) with the addition of 61 proteins. Models trained in one cohort 
and tested in the other also demonstrated significant improvements in R2 despite 
differences in baseline cohort characteristics and clamp methodology (RISC to 
ULSAM: 0.491 [0.433, 0.539] for 51 proteins; ULSAM to RISC: 0.369 [0.331, 0.416] 
for 67 proteins). A randomised LASSO and stability selection algorithm selected 
only two proteins per cohort (three unique proteins), which improved R2 but to a 
lesser degree than in standard LASSO models: 0.352 (0.266, 0.439) in RISC and 
0.495 (0.404, 0.585) in ULSAM. Reductions in improvements of R2 with randomised 
LASSO and stability selection were less marked in cross-cohort analyses (RISC to 
ULSAM R2 0.444 [0.391, 0.497]; ULSAM to RISC R2 0.348 [0.300, 0.396]). Models of 
proteins alone were as effective as models that included both clinical variables 
and proteins using either standard or randomised LASSO. The single most 
consistently selected protein across all analyses and models was IGF-binding 
protein 2.
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: A plasma proteomic signature identified using a 
standard LASSO approach improves the cross-sectional estimation of the M value 
over routine clinical variables. However, a small subset of these proteins 
identified using a stability selection algorithm affords much of this 
improvement, especially when considering cross-cohort analyses. Our approach 
provides opportunities to improve the identification of insulin-resistant 
individuals at risk of insulin resistance-related adverse health consequences.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-023-05946-z
PMCID: PMC10390625
PMID: 37329449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. J Health Econ. 2023 Jul;90:102777. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2023.102777. Epub
 2023 Jun 5.

Estimating the welfare gains from anti-retroviral therapy in Sub-Saharan Africa.

Da Costa S(1).

Author information:
(1)Paris School of Economics, 48 Boulevard Jourdan, 75014 Paris, France. 
Electronic address: shaun.dacosta@psemail.eu.

Since the start of the century, many countries in Sub-Saharan Africa have 
experienced large gains in life expectancy and average consumption levels. 
Around the same time, an unprecedented international effort has taken place to 
combat HIV/AIDS mortality with the expansion of anti-retroviral therapy (ART) 
across many of the hardest hit countries. In this paper, I estimate the impact 
of ART on average welfare over time in 42 countries using the equivalent 
consumption approach. I decompose the change in welfare to isolate the relative 
contribution of ART-driven improvements in life expectancy and consumption. The 
results indicate that ART has accounted for around 12% of total welfare growth 
in SSA between 2000 and 2017. In those countries most affected by HIV/AIDS, this 
figure rises to around 40%. Moreover, the estimates suggest that welfare in some 
of the worst-hit countries would have declined over time without the ART 
expansion.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2023.102777
PMID: 37329668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


664. Behav Ther. 2023 Jul;54(4):623-636. doi: 10.1016/j.beth.2023.01.004. Epub
2023  Feb 1.

Pain Catastrophizing and Clinical Outcomes Among Patients Receiving a Novel 
Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy for Irritable Bowel Syndrome: An Experimental 
Therapeutics Approach.

Roger AH(1), Gudleski GD(2), Quigley BM(2), Zvolensky MJ(3), Lackner JM(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Houston. Electronic address: ahroger2@central.uh.edu.
(2)University at Buffalo.
(3)University of Houston and the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center.

Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is the most common gastrointestinal (GI) 
condition treated by GI and primary care physicians. Although IBS symptoms 
(abdominal pain, bowel problems) are generally refractory to medical therapies, 
consistent research has shown that they improve following cognitive-behavioral 
therapy (CBT). Notwithstanding empirical support for CBT, there is less research 
explicating the reasons for why or how it works. Like other pain disorders, the 
focus on change mechanisms for behavioral pain treatments has focused on 
pain-specific cognitive-affective processes that modulate pain experience, few 
of which are more important than pain catastrophizing (PC). The fact that PC 
changes are seen across treatments of differing theoretical and technical 
orientation, including CBT, yoga, and physical therapy, suggests that it may be 
a nonspecific (vs. theory-based) change mechanism akin to therapeutic alliance 
and treatment expectancy. Therefore, the current study examined change in PC as 
a concurrent mediator of IBS symptoms severity, global GI symptom improvement, 
and quality of life among 436 Rome III-diagnosed IBS patients enrolled in a 
clinical trial undergoing two dosages of CBT versus a nonspecific comparator 
emphasizing education and support. Results from structural equation modeling 
parallel process mediation analyses suggest that reduction in PC during 
treatment are significantly associated with improvement in IBS clinical outcomes 
through 3-month follow-up. Results from the current study provide evidence that 
PC may be an important, albeit nonspecific change mechanism, during CBT for IBS. 
Overall, reducing the emotional unpleasantness of pain through cognitive 
processes is associated with improved outcomes for IBS.

Copyright © 2023 Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies. Published 
by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2023.01.004
PMID: 37330253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. J Anim Sci. 2023 Jan 3;101:skad203. doi: 10.1093/jas/skad203.

Genetic analysis of growth curve in Moghani Sheep using Bayesian and restricted 
maximum likelihood.

Rashedi Dehsahraei A(1), Ghaderi-Zefrehei M(2), Rafeie F(3), Zakizadeh S(4), 
Shirani Shamsabadi J(5), Elahi Torshizi M(6), Neysi S(7), Rahmatalla SA(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sheep and Goat Breeding, National Animal Breeding Center and 
Promotion of Animal Products, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Animal Science, Yasouj University, Yasouj, Iran.
(3)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, Faculty of Agricultural Sciences, 
University of Guilan, Rasht, Iran.
(4)Animal Science Research Institute of Iran (ASRI), Agriculture Research, 
Education, and Extension Organization (AREEO), Karaj, Iran.
(5)Department of Animal Science, College of Agriculture, Isfahan University of 
Technology, Isfahan, Iran.
(6)Department of Animal Science, Islamic Azad University, Mashhad, Iran.
(7)Department of Animal Science, Animal Science and Food Technology Faculty, 
Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources University of Khuzestan, Ahwaz, 
Iran.
(8)Department of Animal Breeding Biology and Molecular Genetics, Faculty of Life 
Sciences, Humboldt-Universität Zu Berlin, Germany.

This study was conducted to predict the genetic (co)variance components of 
growth curve parameters of Moghani sheep breed using the following information: 
birth weight (N = 7278), 3-mo-old weight (N = 5881), 6-mo-old weight (N = 5013), 
9-mo-old weigh (N = 2819], and 12-mo-old weight (N = 2883). The growth 
parameters (A: maturity weight, B: growth rate, and K: maturity rate) were 
calculated using Gompertz, Logistic, Brody, and Von Bertalanffy nonlinear models 
via NLIN procedure of SAS software. The aforementioned models were compared 
using Akaike information criterion, root mean square error, adjusted 
co-efficient of determination. Also, both Bayesian (using MTGSAM) and RMEL 
(using WOMBAT) paradigms were adapted to predict the genetic (co)variance 
components of growth parameters (A, B, K) due to the best fitted growth models. 
It was turned out that Von Bertalanffy best fitted to the data in this study. 
The year of birth and lamb gender had a significant effect on maturity rate (P < 
0.01). Also it turned out that within the growth parameter, with increasing 
(co)variance matrix complexity, the Bayesian paradigm fitted well to the data 
than the restricted maximum likelihood (REML) one. However, for simple animal 
model and across all growth parameters, REML outperformed Bayesian. In this way, 
the h2a predicted (0.15 ± 0.05), (0.11±.05), and (0.04 ± 0.03) for A, B, and K 
parameters, respectively. Practically, in terms of breeding plan, we could see 
that genetic improvement of growth parameters in this study is not a tractable 
strategy to follow up and improvement of the management and environment should 
be thoroughly considered. In terms of paradigm comparison, REML's bias 
correction bears up an advantageous approach as far as we are concerned with 
small sample size. To this end, REML predictions are fairly accurate but the 
mode of posterior distributions could be overestimated. Finally, the differences 
between REML and Bayesian estimates were found for all parameter data in this 
study. We conclude that simulation studies are necessary in order to trade off 
these parading in the complex random effects scenarios of genetic individual 
model.

Plain Language Summary: The Iran plateau is known to be the origin of many sheep 
species nowadays. In Iran, different production systems are operated ranging 
from intensive to lower-input/extensive ones. However, the majority of these 
sheep breeds are extensively managed, where lambs are born outside and with 
little intervention and generally they experience frequent drought and shortage 
of nutritional value of forages. Meanwhile, the weight of lambs as a whole play 
a major decision role in rearing or culling them. However, investigations 
involving the possible genetic improvement of lamb weights over different 
periods of time have found low genetic variations. This study serves to be 
comprehensive in addressing this issue in Moghani sheep breed. Fitting many 
different genetics models over both restricted maximum likelihood and Bayesian 
paradigms indicated that heritability of weight spanned 0.03 to 0.23. The low 
genetic variation would lead to recommendations that the improvement of Moghani 
lamb weights should rather be based upon modification of the environment to 
create conditions suitable for weight of lambs. This reflects that breeders of 
Moghani sheep breed have less options to tackle Iran harsh conditions using 
Moghani sheep genetic potentials.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
American Society of Animal Science. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jas/skad203
PMCID: PMC10402655
PMID: 37330688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2023 Jun 18:26063. doi:
10.4317/medoral.26063.  Online ahead of print.

Clinical practice guideline of the spanish society of oral surgery for oral 
surgery in patients with coagulation disorders.

Valenzuela-Mencia J(1), Serrera-Figallo MÁ, Torres-Lagares D, Machuca-Portillo 
G, Sánchez-Fernández E, Valmaseda-Castellón E, Peñarrocha-Diago M, 
Fernández-Mosteirín N, Somoza-Martin JM, Pérez-Jardón A, Chamorro-Petronacci CM, 
García-García A.

Author information:
(1)Address: c/ Entrerrios S/N, 15706 Santiago de Compostela. Spain 
cintia.chamorro@usc.es.

BACKGROUND: The number of patients treated with coagulation disorders, and more 
specifically with anticoagulant therapy, has increased worldwide in recent years 
due to increased life expectancy in developed countries. The protocols for 
managing this type of patient in oral surgery has varied over recent years, 
especially after the appearance of new direct-acting oral anticoagulants 
(DOACs). The assessment of risk of bleeding in this type of patient when 
undergoing a surgical procedure continues to be a controversial issue for 
patients, dentists and general practitioners. The objective of this document is 
to offer recommendations, based on evidence, for decision making for patients 
with coagulopathies who require dental surgical intervention.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Based on the indications of the "Preparation of Clinical 
Practice guidelines in the National Health System. Methodological manual", we 
gathered a group of experts who agreed on 15 PICO questions based on managing 
patients with coagulation disorders in dental surgical procedures, such as 
fitting of implants or dental extractions.
RESULTS: The 15 PICO questions were answered based on the available evidence, 
being limited in most cases due to the lack of a control group. Two of the PICO 
questions were answered by the experts with a grade C recommendation, while the 
rest were answered with grade D.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this review highlight the need to undertake well 
designed clinical trials with control groups and with a representative sample 
size.

DOI: 10.4317/medoral.26063
PMID: 37330959


667. Orv Hetil. 2023 Jun 18;164(24):931-941. doi: 10.1556/650.2023.32782. Print
2023  Jun 18.

[Deprescribing: an essential part of rational pharmacotherapy].

[Article in Hungarian; Abstract available in Hungarian from the publisher]

Engi Z(1), Matuz M(1), Soós G(1), Hajnal F(2), Szökő É(3), Viola R(1), Csupor 
D(1), Benkő R(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Szegedi Tudományegyetem, Gyógyszerésztudományi Kar, Klinikai 
Gyógyszerészeti Intézet Szeged, Szikra u. 8., 6725 Magyarország.
(2)2 Szegedi Tudományegyetem, Szent-Györgyi Albert Orvostudományi Kar, 
Családorvosi Intézet Szeged Magyarország.
(3)3 Semmelweis Egyetem, Gyógyszerésztudományi Kar, Gyógyszerhatástani Intézet 
Budapest Magyarország.

Deprescribing is a planned, systematic process supervised by a healthcare 
professional. It is considered to be a fundamental part of good prescribing. 
Deprescribing can be defined as the complete withdrawal of medications as well 
as dose reduction. The patient's health status, life expectancy, values, 
preferences and the therapeutic goals should be given serious consideration 
while planning the deprescribing process. The main objective of deprescribing 
may vary but reaching the patients' goals and improving their quality of life 
remain constant priorities. In our article, based on the international 
literature, we review potential deprescribing targets such as the 
characteristics of high-risk patients, medications that should prompt a therapy 
review and the ideal settings for deprescribing. We also cover the steps, risks 
and benefits of the process, and discuss the existing specific guidelines and 
algorithms. We provide information on the enablers and barriers of deprescribing 
among both patients and healthcare professionals, and discuss international 
initiatives as well as the future of deprescribing. Orv Hetil. 2023; 164(24): 
931-941.

Publisher: A gyógyszerrosta (az angol deprescribing magyar megfelelője) 
tervezett, szisztematikus gyógyszerleépítési folyamat, amely egészségügyi 
szakember felügyeletével zajlik, és lényegében a helyes gyógyszerrendelési 
gyakorlat részének tekintendő. A gyógyszerrosta nemcsak a teljes 
gyógyszerelhagyást jelentheti, hanem a dóziscsökkentés folyamata is lehet. 
Megtervezése során létfontosságú figyelembe venni a terápiás célkitűzéseket, 
valamint a beteg egészségi állapotát, időbeli életkilátását, értékrendjét és 
igényeit. A gyógyszerrosta célja betegenként változhat, alapvetően azonban 
prioritásnak tekinthető a beteg számára fontos célok elérése, a beteg 
életminőségének javítása. Közleményünkben a nemzetközi szakirodalom alapján 
áttekintjük a gyógyszerrosta folyamatának lehetséges célpontjait: azokat a nagy 
egészségügyi kockázatú betegcsoportokat, amelyeknél előnyös lehet a 
gyógyszerleépítés; a gyógyszereket és gyógyszercsoportokat, amelyek szedése 
esetén szükség lehet a terápia felülvizsgálatára; valamint összefoglaljuk a 
folyamat lehetséges színtereit. Ezenkívül kitérünk a folyamat általános 
lépéseire, előnyeire, kockázataira, és ismertetjük a rendelkezésre álló 
specifikus irányelveket, algoritmusokat. Részletesen tárgyaljuk a folyamatot 
segítő és hátráltató tényezőket, mind az egészségügyi szakemberek, mind pedig a 
betegek szemszögéből, végül pedig kitérünk a nemzetközi kezdeményezésekre és a 
gyógyszerrosta jövőjére is. Orv Hetil. 2023; 164(24): 931–941.

DOI: 10.1556/650.2023.32782
PMID: 37330979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Orthop Traumatol Surg Res. 2023 Jun 16:103644. doi:
10.1016/j.otsr.2023.103644.  Online ahead of print.

Twenty-year survivorship cohort study of total knee arthroplasty in Asian 
patient using a single posterior-stabilized implant performed by a single 
surgeon.

Lee BS(1), Bin SI(2), Kim JM(1), Kim TH(3), Oh SM(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, University of Ulsan, Asan Medical Center, 88, Olympic-ro 
43-gil, Songpa-gu, 05505 Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Unjeong Inbone Hospital, 31, Cheongam-ro 
17-gil, Paju-si, 10892 Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
sibin99@naver.com.
(3)Gimpo Woori Hospital, 11, Gamam-ro, Gimpo-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Barun Hospital, 145, Yeouidaebang-ro, 
Yeongdeungpo-gu, 07392 Seoul, Republic of Korea.

INTRODUCTION: As life expectancy has improved, the potential number of revision 
candidates is also expected to increase among patients who have undergone a 
total knee arthroplasty (TKA). The longevity of modern posterior stabilized knee 
prostheses after 20 years of use has not been well documented, especially in 
Asian populations that require a deeper flexion range due to a floor-based 
lifestyle.
HYPOTHESIS: Firstly, the implant longevity regarding mechanical failures such as 
aseptic loosening and polyethylene (PE) wear would vary over a longer follow-up 
depending on the age groups; and secondly there would be unique risk factors for 
revision surgery in an Asian TKA cohort.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We conducted this age-stratified survival analysis in a 
consecutive series of 368 NexGen Legacy Posterior Stabilized (LPS) TKAs 
performed by a single surgeon. These cases were divided into four age groups 
(< 60 years, early 60s, late 60s, and ≥ 70 years). The implant longevity against 
aseptic mechanical failures was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The 
revision surgery risk was evaluated using postoperative factors including a deep 
flexion capability (> 135̊), and postoperative mechanical alignments.
RESULTS: Overall survivorship was significantly lower in the youngest groups 
than other groups (Log-rank test, p=0.001). The cumulative 20-year implant 
longevity was more than 95% in the two oldest groups, but less than 60% in the 
youngest group. It was notable that the post-TKA implant longevity was not 
apparent up to 10 years between the age groups (p=0.073∼0.458). Aseptic 
loosening was observed with an earlier onset (3.1 to 18.9 years) trend than PE 
wear (9.8∼17.9 years), with most cases arising in the youngest groups. Flexion 
limitation and varus alignment were significant risks to aseptic loosening and 
PE wear (Cox proportional hazard regression: p=0.001 and 0.045, respectively).
DISCUSSION: A younger age (< 60 years), inability of postoperative deep flexion, 
and varus alignment were significant risk factors for aseptic loosening and PE 
wear after modern PS design in this Asian cohort. The difference in 
postoperative longevity affected by these factors was not obvious during the 
first 10 years but emerged over a second decade.
LEVEL OF PROOF: III; retrospective cohort study.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otsr.2023.103644
PMID: 37331652


669. Foot Ankle Orthop. 2023 Jun 11;8(2):24730114231178763. doi: 
10.1177/24730114231178763. eCollection 2023 Apr.

Risk Factors for the Progression of Varus Ankle Osteoarthritis.

Kurokawa H(1), Taniguchi A(1), Ueno Y(1), Miyamoto T(1), Tanaka Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Nara Medical University, Kashihara, Nara, Japan.

BACKGROUND: With the increase in life expectancy, the prevalence of ankle 
osteoarthritis (OA) is also expected to increase in the future. Functional 
disability and diminished quality of life associated with end-stage ankle OA are 
comparable to those associated with end-stage hip or knee OA. However, there are 
few reports on the natural history and progression of patients with ankle OA. 
Hence, this study aimed to evaluate the risk factors for progression in patients 
with varus ankle OA.
METHODS: We evaluated 68 ankles from 58 patients diagnosed with varus ankle OA 
using radiography performed at intervals over at least 60 months. The mean 
follow-up period was 99 ± 40 months. Narrowing of the joint space and increasing 
osteophyte formation were defined as ankle OA progression. Multivariate analysis 
was performed using logistic regression to predict the odds of progression; the 
model included 2 clinical variables and 7 radiographic variables.
RESULTS: Of the 68 ankles, 39 (57%) progressed. In multivariable logistic 
regression analyses, patient's age (odds ratio [OR] 0.92, 95% CI 0.85-0.99, 
P < .03), and the talar tilt (TT; OR 2.2, 95% CI 1.39-3.42, P = .001) were found 
to be independent factors for progression. The area under the curve (AUC) of the 
receiver operating characteristic curve for TT was 0.844, and the cutoff value 
was 2.0 degrees.
CONCLUSION: TT was found to be a primary factor associated with varus ankle OA 
progression. The risk appeared higher in patients with a TT more than 2.0 
degrees.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III, retrospective case control study.

© The Author(s) 2023.

DOI: 10.1177/24730114231178763
PMCID: PMC10272656
PMID: 37332631

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article. ICMJE forms for all authors are available online.


670. Heliyon. 2023 Jun 3;9(6):e16983. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e16983.
eCollection  2023 Jun.

Climate change and livestock herders wellbeing in Pakistan: Does nexus of risk 
perception, adaptation and their drivers matter?

Usman M(1), Ali A(1), Rosak-Szyrocka J(2), Pilař L(3), Baig SA(4), Akram R(5), 
Wudil AH(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Agricultural and Resource Economics, University of Agriculture, 
Faisalabad, Pakistan.
(2)Faculty of Management, Czestochowa University of Technology, 42-200, 
Czestochowa, Poland.
(3)Department of Management, Faculty of Economics and Management, Czech 
University of Life Sciences Prague, Prague, Czech Republic.
(4)Faisalabad Business School, National Textile University, Faisalabad, 
Pakistan.
(5)Department of Botany, University of Agriculture, Faisalabad, Pakistan.
(6)Department of Agricultural Economics and Extension, Federal University, 
Dutse, Jigawa State, Nigeria.

Rural people, particularly in developing nations, rely on livestock as a key 
source of income. In Pakistan, rural people depend profoundly on buffalo, cows, 
sheep, and goats to earn their livelihood. The systems of agricultural 
production are at risk because of the negative effects of climate change. It 
badly affects production and quality of milk and meat, animal health, 
productivity, breeding, feed, and rangelands of livestock production. Climate 
change risks assessment and adaptation are required to minimize losses from 
these effects, which are not just technical but also socioeconomically 
significant. Hence, based on data collected from 1080 livestock herders using a 
multistage sampling technique in Punjab, Pakistan this study aims to assess 
perceived impact of climate change on livestock production and to assess coping 
strategies. In addition, determinants of adaptation strategies and their effects 
on livestock production was also estimated. Binary Logistic Regression was used 
to identify the drivers of adaptation strategies. In addition, Multi Group 
Analysis (MGA) in Partial Least Squares Path Modelling (PLS-PM) was applied to 
compare adapter and non-adapter of climate change adaptation strategies. 
Findings indicated that there are spread of various diseases to livestock due to 
adverse effects of climatic variability. There was reduction in the availability 
of the livestock's feed. Moreover, competition of water and land resources of 
livestock was also increasing. Low production efficiency resulted in decline of 
milk yield and meat production. Likewise, mortality of livestock, increased in 
still births, reduction in reproductive performance, decline in animal 
fertility, longevity, and general fitness, decreased birthing rates, rises in 
age at foremost calving in beef cattle was also prevailing. There were different 
adaptation policies used by farmers to handle with climate change and these were 
influenced by several demographic, socioeconomic, and agronomic aspects. 
Findings indicated that nexus of risk perception, adaptation plans and their 
determinants are beneficial to reduce the consequences of climatic variability 
and it improve the wellbeing of the herders. Risk management system may be 
created to protect livestock against losses caused by extreme weather events by 
providing awareness regarding influence of climate change on livestock. Easy and 
cheaper credit should be provided to the farmers to manage with the 
vulnerabilities of climate change.

© 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e16983
PMCID: PMC10272481
PMID: 37332900

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


671. medRxiv. 2023 Jun 5:2023.06.01.23290057. doi: 10.1101/2023.06.01.23290057. 
Preprint.

Identifying modifiable comorbidities of schizophrenia by integrating electronic 
health records and polygenic risk.

Vessels T(1), Strayer N(2), Choi KW(3)(4), Lee H(3)(4), Zhang S(2)(5), Han L(1), 
Morley TJ(1), Smoller JW(3)(4)(6), Xu Y(2)(5), Ruderfer DM(1)(5)(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Genetic Medicine, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt Genetics 
Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville TN.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville 
TN.
(3)Psychiatric & Neurodevelopmental Genetics Unit, Center for Genomic Medicine, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston MA.
(4)Center for Precision Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston MA.
(5)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville TN.
(6)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute, Cambridge, MA.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Vanderbilt University 
Medical Center, Nashville, TN.

Patients with schizophrenia have substantial comorbidity contributing to reduced 
life expectancy of 10-20 years. Identifying which comorbidities might be 
modifiable could improve rates of premature mortality in this population. We 
hypothesize that conditions that frequently co-occur but lack shared genetic 
risk with schizophrenia are more likely to be products of treatment, behavior, 
or environmental factors and therefore potentially modifiable. To test this 
hypothesis, we calculated phenome-wide comorbidity from electronic health 
records (EHR) in 250,000 patients in each of two independent health care 
institutions (Vanderbilt University Medical Center and Mass General Brigham) and 
association with schizophrenia polygenic risk scores (PRS) across the same 
phenotypes (phecodes) in linked biobanks. Comorbidity with schizophrenia was 
significantly correlated across institutions (r = 0.85) and consistent with 
prior literature. After multiple test correction, there were 77 significant 
phecodes comorbid with schizophrenia. Overall, comorbidity and PRS association 
were highly correlated (r = 0.55, p = 1.29×10-118), however, 36 of the EHR 
identified comorbidities had significantly equivalent schizophrenia PRS 
distributions between cases and controls. Fifteen of these lacked any PRS 
association and were enriched for phenotypes known to be side effects of 
antipsychotic medications (e.g., "movement disorders", "convulsions", 
"tachycardia") or other schizophrenia related factors such as from smoking 
("bronchitis") or reduced hygiene (e.g., "diseases of the nail") highlighting 
the validity of this approach. Other phenotypes implicated by this approach 
where the contribution from shared common genetic risk with schizophrenia was 
minimal included tobacco use disorder, diabetes, and dementia. This work 
demonstrates the consistency and robustness of EHR-based schizophrenia 
comorbidities across independent institutions and with the existing literature. 
It identifies comorbidities with an absence of shared genetic risk indicating 
other causes that might be more modifiable and where further study of causal 
pathways could improve outcomes for patients.

DOI: 10.1101/2023.06.01.23290057
PMCID: PMC10274978
PMID: 37333378


672. Gerontol Geriatr Med. 2023 Jun 10;9:23337214231179902. doi: 
10.1177/23337214231179902. eCollection 2023 Jan-Dec.

Senior Citizens in Nepal: Policy Gaps and Recommendations.

Acharya T(1)(2), Dhungana GK(3), Traille K(4), Dhakal H(1).

Author information:
(1)Nexus Institute of Research and Innovation(NIRI), Nepal.
(2)South Georgia State College, Douglas, GA, USA.
(3)Tribhuvan University, Kirtipur, Nepal.
(4)Kennesaw State University, Kennesaw, GA, USA.

Limited research has been conducted on the views of senior citizens in Nepal 
with regards to contemporary challenges and aging issues. To better understand 
their existing problems, it is important to talk to and survey senior citizens 
and reflect on their experiences and insights. The Senior Citizens Acts, 2063 in 
Nepal defines senior citizens as individuals who have reached the age of 
60 years or above. With an increase in life expectancy rates, the senior citizen 
population in Nepal is on the rise. However, despite the guarantees of rights 
outlined in the policy, little attention has been paid to the needs of the 
elderly population. This knowledge can help inform policies and programs that 
improve their quality of life and well-being. Therefore, this study aims to 
collect the lived experiences of older generations across Nepal, including 
information about the society, culture, and hardships they faced. The research 
aims to contribute to existing literature on the experiences of the elderly and 
inform policies related to senior citizens. A mixed-methods approach was used 
for this study, incorporating both primary and secondary sources. The primary 
data was collected through an informal survey posted on Facebook targeting 
senior citizens in Nepal which generated 100 responses from senior citizens aged 
65 years or older within a 2-week period.

© The Author(s) 2023.

DOI: 10.1177/23337214231179902
PMCID: PMC10272673
PMID: 37333481

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


673. Vet Anim Sci. 2023 Jun 10;21:100301. doi: 10.1016/j.vas.2023.100301.
eCollection  2023 Sep.

Extraction of canine gait characteristics using a mobile gait analysis system 
based on inertial measurement units.

Altermatt M(1), Kalt D(1), Blättler P(2), Schkommodau E(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Engineering and Medical Informatics, School of Life 
Sciences, University of Applied Sciences Northwestern Switzerland, 
Hofackerstrasse 30, Muttenz CH 4132, Switzerland.
(2)Orthovet, Fasanenstrasse 13, CH 4402 Frenkendorf, Switzerland.

This study aims to investigate two simple algorithms for extracting gait 
features from an inertial measurement unit (IMU) based canine gait analysis 
