CT fusion rates between the two groups. Secondary outcomes included analysis of 
the patients' clinical outcomes and postoperative complications on CT scans.
METHODS: Clinical evaluations were performed using a visual analog scale for 
back pain, the Oswestry Disability Index for disability, and physical and mental 
component summaries of the Short Form 36-Item Form Health Survey to assess 
functional effects and quality of life. The fusion was evaluated using 
radiography and CT. On radiography, solid fusion was defined when the difference 
between extension and flexion was less than 5°. On CT, solid fusion was defined 
when the upper and lower vertebral bodies were connected by the trabecular bone 
(bone bridge formation). In addition, complications such as osteolysis, cage 
subsidence, and screw loosening were investigated using CT.
RESULTS: All clinical results for low back pain, disability, and quality of life 
in both groups were excellent and showed statistically significant improvements 
compared with baseline (p<.0001). According to the X-ray evaluations, fusion was 
achieved in 92.31% (204/221) of the patients in the E.BMP-2 group and 82.35% 
(112/136) of the patients in the control group (p=.0041). According to the CT 
evaluations, the fusion rates were 93.21% (206/221) and 88.24% (120/136) in the 
E.BMP-2 and control groups (p=.1048), respectively. Except for screw loosening, 
which had a significantly higher incidence in the control group (p=.0014), the 
rates of most postoperative complications were not significantly different 
between the groups.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that the adjunctive use of a low dose of 
E.BMP-2 with HA and β-TCP hydrogel can effectively promote bone fusion, making 
it a promising option for patients with limited autograft availability or 
compromised bone quality in PLIF.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spinee.2023.07.017
PMID: 37516282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations of competing interests The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


275. Lancet Public Health. 2023 Aug;8(8):e585-e599. doi: 
10.1016/S2468-2667(23)00123-8.

The burden and trend of diseases and their risk factors in Australia, 1990-2019: 
a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Australia Collaborators.

Erratum in
    Lancet Public Health. 2023 Sep;8(9):e669.
    Lancet Public Health. 2023 Dec;8(12):e914.

Comment in
    Lancet Public Health. 2023 Aug;8(8):e576-e577.
    Lancet Public Health. 2023 Nov;8(11):e834.
    Lancet Public Health. 2023 Nov;8(11):e835.

BACKGROUND: A comprehensive understanding of temporal trends in the disease 
burden in Australia is lacking, and these trends are required to inform health 
service planning and improve population health. We explored the burden and 
trends of diseases and their risk factors in Australia from 1990 to 2019 through 
a comprehensive analysis of the Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD) 2019.
METHODS: In this systematic analysis for GBD 2019, we estimated all-cause 
mortality using the standardised GBD methodology. Data sources included 
primarily vital registration systems with additional data from sample 
registrations, censuses, surveys, surveillance, registries, and verbal 
autopsies. A composite measure of health loss caused by fatal and non-fatal 
disease burden (disability-adjusted life-years [DALYs]) was calculated as the 
sum of years of life lost (YLLs) and years of life lived with disability (YLDs). 
Comparisons between Australia and 14 other high-income countries were made.
FINDINGS: Life expectancy at birth in Australia improved from 77·0 years (95% 
uncertainty interval [UI] 76·9-77·1) in 1990 to 82·9 years (82·7-83·1) in 2019. 
Between 1990 and 2019, the age-standardised death rate decreased from 637·7 
deaths (95% UI 634·1-641·3) to 389·2 deaths (381·4-397·6) per 100 000 
population. In 2019, non-communicable diseases remained the major cause of 
mortality in Australia, accounting for 90·9% (95% UI 90·4-91·9) of total deaths, 
followed by injuries (5·7%, 5·3-6·1) and communicable, maternal, neonatal, and 
nutritional diseases (3·3%, 2·9-3·7). Ischaemic heart disease, self-harm, 
tracheal, bronchus, and lung cancer, stroke, and colorectal cancer were the 
leading causes of YLLs. The leading causes of YLDs were low back pain, 
depressive disorders, other musculoskeletal diseases, falls, and anxiety 
disorders. The leading risk factors for DALYs were high BMI, smoking, high blood 
pressure, high fasting plasma glucose, and drug use. Between 1990 and 2019, 
all-cause DALYs decreased by 24·6% (95% UI 21·5-28·1). Relative to similar 
countries, Australia's ranking improved for age-standardised death rates and 
life expectancy at birth but not for YLDs and YLLs between 1990 and 2019.
INTERPRETATION: An important challenge for Australia is to address the health 
needs of people with non-communicable diseases. The health systems must be 
prepared to address the increasing demands of non-communicable diseases and 
ageing.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-2667(23)00123-8
PMCID: PMC10400798
PMID: 37516475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests SMSI reports support 
for the present manuscript from a National Health and Medical Research Council 
(NHMRC) Investigator Grant and from a National Heart Foundation Vanguard Grant. 
BA reports grants or contracts form Rebecca Cooper Foundation for 
Investigator-initiated trial grant and a Nat Rem Grant for 
Investigator-initiated trial biomarkers assessment support, and payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from Nat Rem and IRACON, all outside the submitted work. PA 
reports support for the present manuscript from the Australian College of 
Applied Professions Discipline of Psychological Sciences, Sydney, Australia. BTB 
reports consulting fees from AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Janssen, 
LivaNova, Lundbeck, Novartis, Otsuka, Pfizer, Servier, Wyeth, Biogen, Angelini, 
Sumitomo Pharma, and Boehringer-Ingelheim, and payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Janssen, LivaNova, Lundbeck, 
Novartis, Otsuka, Pfizer, Servier, Wyeth, Biogen, Angelini, Sumitomo Pharma, and 
Boehringer-Ingelheim, all outside the submitted work. AMB reports grants from 
Australian National Health and Medical Research Council, Bone and Joint Decade 
Foundation, Arthritis and Osteoporosis Western Australia, Department of Health 
Government of Western Australia through payments to their institution, 
consulting fees from WHO, payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from American College 
of Rheumatology, and support for attending meetings or travel from WHO, all 
outside the submitted work. RB reports grants from the NHMRC, Medical Research 
Future Fund, Arthritis Australia, HCF Research Foundation, Cabrini Foundation, 
and Australian Government Department of Health, all as payments to their 
institution, and royalties from UpToDate for Plantar fasciitis, all outside the 
submitted work. SRC reports grants or contracts from the Wellcome Trust, 
Australian Department of Veterans Affairs, National Institutes of Mental Health, 
Janssen-Cilag Australia, Australian Defense Science and Technology Group, and 
the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council, consulting fees 
from Lundbeck-Otsuka Australia, payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Lundbeck-Otsuka Australia, support for attending meetings or travel from 
Janssen-Cilag Australia, participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or 
Advisory Board with Verbatim Trial Orygen Australia, and leadership or fiduciary 
role in other board, society, committee or advocacy group, unpaid, with 
executive Committee Member Society for Mental Health Research, all outside the 
submitted work. KML reports support for the present manuscript from an NHMRC 
Investigator Grant (APP1173803). PBM reports payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Janssen (Australia), and Sanofi (Hangzhou), and participation on a Data Safety 
Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with Janssen (Australia), all outside the 
submitted work. AEP reports support for the present manuscript from the NHMRC as 
a grant paid to their institute. JS reports grants or contracts from the 
National Health and Medical Research Council, the Department of Education, 
Victoria, and the Medical Research Future Fund, and leadership or fiduciary role 
in other board, society, committee or advocacy group, unpaid, as President of 
the Asia Pacific Society for Physical Activity, a not-for-profit professional 
society. AES reports grants or contracts from the National Health and Medical 
Research Council of Australia, Leadership Investigator Grant ID2017504, personal 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing or educational events from Servier, Novartis, Omron, Aktiia, and 
Medtronic, support for attending meetings or travel from Servier, participation 
on Abbot Advisory Board, and leadership or fiduciary role in other board, 
society, committee or advocacy group, paid or unpaid, as Secretary of Australian 
Cardiovascular Alliance and co-Chair of National Hypertension Taskforce of 
Australia, all outside the submitted work. HS reports grants to their institute 
from the Australian Government, Department of Health, Medical Research Future 
Fund, Western Australian Government Department of Health, Bone and Joint Decade 
Foundation (Sweden) Curtin University (Australia), Institute for Bone and Joint 
Research (Australia), and Canadian Memorial Chiropractic College (Canada), all 
outside the submitted work. SS reports payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events for an 
online lecture on Cultural consideration for pain care delivered on Jan 26, 
2023, and travel accommodation for delivering a talk on Technologies for pain 
education in developing countries conducted by the Pain Education SIG of the 
International Association for the Study of Pain, all outside the submitted work. 
MAS reports leadership or fiduciary role in other board, society, committee or 
advocacy group, unpaid, as Vice President of Kidsafe Victoria, Director Council 
of the Aged Victoria, and Director Australasian Society of Autism Research, 
outside the submitted work. JS reports stock or stock options in Anagram 
kommunikation, MinForskning, and Symptoms Europe, outside the submitted work. 
AGT reports grants or contracts from National Health and Medical Research 
Council (Australia; grant numbers 1143155, 1171966, and 1182071), and the 
Medical Research Future Fund (Australian Government; grant number 2015976), as 
payments to their institution outside the submitted work. MW reports consulting 
fees from Amgen and Freeline, participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or 
Advisory Board with Staree DSMB, all outside the submitted work. All other 
authors declare no competing interests.


276. Lancet Public Health. 2023 Aug;8(8):e610-e617. doi: 
10.1016/S2468-2667(23)00129-9.

Gender, education, and cohort differences in healthy working life expectancy at 
age 50 years in Australia: a longitudinal analysis.

Hambisa MT(1), Tawiah R(2), Jagger C(3), Kiely KM(4).

Author information:
(1)Ageing Futures Institute, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
Australia; Neuroscience Research Australia (NeuRA), Sydney, Australia.
(2)School of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(3)Population Health Sciences Institute, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, UK.
(4)Ageing Futures Institute, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
Australia; Neuroscience Research Australia (NeuRA), Sydney, Australia; School of 
Health and Society, and School of Mathematics and Applied Statistics, University 
of Wollongong, Australia. Electronic address: kkiely@uow.edu.au.

Comment in
    Lancet Public Health. 2023 Aug;8(8):e578-e579.

BACKGROUND: We aimed to estimate healthy working life expectancy (HWLE) at age 
50 years by gender, cohort, and level of education in Australia.
METHODS: We analysed data from two nationally representative cohorts in the 
Household Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia survey. Each cohort was 
followed up annually from 2001 to 2010 and from 2011 to 2020. Poor health was 
defined by a self-reported, limiting, long-term health condition. Work was 
defined by current employment status. HWLEs were estimated with Interpolated 
Markov Chain multi-state modelling.
FINDINGS: We included data from 4951 participants in the cohort from 2001 to 
2010 (2605 [53%] women and 2346 [47%] men; age range 50-100 years) and 6589 
participants in the cohort from 2011 to 2020 (3518 [53%] women and 3071 [47%] 
men; age range 50-100 years). Baseline characteristics were similar between 
groups. Working life expectancy increased over time for all groups, regardless 
of gender or educational attainment. However, health expectancies only increased 
for men and people of either gender with higher education. Years working in good 
health at age 50 years for men were 9·9 years in 2001 (95% CI 9·3-10·4) and 10·8 
years (10·4-11·3) in 2011. The corresponding HWLEs for women were 7·9 years 
(7·3-8·5) and 9·0 years (8·5-9·6). For people with low education level, HWLE was 
7·9 years (7·3-8·5) in 2001 and 8·4 years (7·9-8·9) in 2011, and for those with 
high education level, HWLE rose from 9·6 years in 2001 (9·1-10·1) to 10·5 years 
in 2011 (10·2-10·9). Across all groups, there were at least 2·5 years working in 
poor health and 6·7 years not working in good health.
INTERPRETATION: Increases in length of working life have not been accompanied by 
similar gains in healthy life expectancy for women or people of any gender with 
low education, and it is not unusual for workers older than 50 years to work 
with long-term health limitations. Strategies to achieve longer working lives 
should address life-course inequalities in health and encourage businesses and 
organisations to recruit, train, and retain mature-age workers.
FUNDING: Australian Research Council.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-2667(23)00129-9
PMID: 37516477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests We declare no competing 
interests.


277. Lancet Public Health. 2023 Aug;8(8):e639-e650. doi: 
10.1016/S2468-2667(23)00122-6.

Population health outcomes in South Korea 1990-2019, and projections up to 2040: 
a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 South Korea BoD Collaborators.

Collaborators: Park S, Kim MS, Yon DK, Lee SW, Ward JL, McLaughlin SA, Mehlman 
ML, Koyanagi A, Smith L, Jacob L, Agampodi SB, Beiranvand M, Choi DW, Hong SH, 
Hosseinzadeh M, Kim CI, Kim GR, Kim J, Kim K, Kim S, Lee DW, Lee H, Lee SW, Lee 
YH, Mokdad AH, Murray CJL, Okekunle AP, Park EC, Rabiee N, Shin YH, Hay SI, Shin 
JI.

BACKGROUND: South Korea has one of the longest operating universal health 
coverage (UHC) systems. A comprehensive analysis of long-term trajectories of 
morbidity and mortality in the South Korean population after the inception of 
UHC is needed to inform health-care policy and practice.
METHODS: We used data from the Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD) 2019 to 
present estimates of cause-specific mortality, incidence, prevalence, years of 
life lost (YLLs), years of life lived with disability, and disability-adjusted 
life-years (DALYs) in South Korea from 1990 to 2019. We also examined forecasted 
estimates of YLLs up to 2040 to investigate likely future changes in disease 
burden. Finally, we evaluated GBD estimates from seven comparator countries to 
place disease burden in South Korea within a broader context.
FINDINGS: Age-standardised DALYs related to non-communicable diseases (NCDs) 
decreased by 43·6% (95% uncertainty interval [UI] 39·4-47·9) and mortality by 
58·8% (55·9-60·5) from 1990 to 2019. In 2019, the ratio of male to female 
age-standardised rates of YLLs in South Korea was higher than the global average 
for 75·9% (22 of 29 diseases) of leading causes, indicating a disproportional 
disease burden on males in South Korea. Among risk factors, tobacco use 
accounted for the highest number of 2019 deaths (44 470 [95% UI 37 432-53 989]) 
in males and high systolic blood pressure for the highest number (21 014 
[15 553-26 723]) in females. Among the top ten leading causes of YLLs forecast 
in South Korea in 2040, nine were NCDs, for both males and females.
INTERPRETATION: Our report shows a positive landscape of population health 
outcomes in South Korea following the establishment of UHC. However, due in part 
to the effects of population ageing driving up medical expenditures for NCDs, 
financial pressures and sustainability challenges associated with UHC are 
pressing concerns. Policy makers should work to tackle population ageing and 
allocate resources efficiently by prioritising interventions that address the 
leading causes of death and disability identified in this study.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-2667(23)00122-6
PMCID: PMC10400799
PMID: 37516480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests CK reports support for 
this study from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and leadership or fiduciary 
roles in board, society, committee, or advocacy groups, unpaid with the Korean 
Society of Community Nutrition, outside this study. All other authors declare no 
competing interests.


278. Anesthesiol Clin. 2023 Sep;41(3):671-691. doi: 10.1016/j.anclin.2023.03.003.
 Epub 2023 Apr 28.

Pain Management in the Elderly: A Narrative Review.

Rajput K(1), Ng J(2), Zwolinski N(2), Chow RM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Yale University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar 
Street, TMP3, New Haven, CT 06510, USA. Electronic address: 
kanishka.rajput@yale.edu.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Yale University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar 
Street, TMP3, New Haven, CT 06510, USA.

With the increase in life expectancy in the United States, octogenarians and 
nonagenarians are more frequently seen in clinical practice. The elderly 
patients have multiple preexisting comorbidities and are on multiple 
medications, which can make pain management complex. Moreover, the elderly 
population often suffers from chronic pain related to degenerative processes, 
making medical management challenging. In this review, the authors collated 
available evidence for best practices for pain management in the elderly.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anclin.2023.03.003
PMID: 37516502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2024 Feb;38(1):229-238. doi: 
10.1016/j.hoc.2023.06.010. Epub 2023 Jul 27.

More Drugs Versus More Data: The Tug of War on Cancer in Low- and Middle-Income 
Countries.

Chamberlin M(1), Booth C(2), Brooks GA(1), Manirakiza A(3), Rubagumya F(4), 
Vanderpuye V(5).

Author information:
(1)Dartmouth Cancer Center, 1 Medical Center Drive, Lebanon, NH 03765, USA.
(2)Queen's University, Kingston, Canada.
(3)Oncology Unit, Department of Medicine, King Faisal Hospital, Rwanda.
(4)Department of Oncology, Rwanda Military Hospital, Kigali, Rwanda.
(5)National Center for Radiotherapy, Oncology and Nuclear Medicine, Korlebu 
Teaching Hospital, PO Box KB 369, Accra. Electronic address: vanaglat@yahoo.com.

Although current value frameworks and economic models have allowed us to better 
quantify the net benefit associated with cancer therapy, holistic cancer care 
must consider patient time, family and social values, and overall life 
expectancy. Training programs must include training in health services research, 
difficult conversations, and shared decision-making strategies that are 
developed in social and cultural frameworks for their settings.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hoc.2023.06.010
PMID: 37516631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Sci Rep. 2023 Jul 29;13(1):12289. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-33540-1.

Encapsulation and adhesion of nanoparticles as a potential biomarker for TNBC 
cells metastatic propensity.

Merkher Y(1), Kontareva E(2), Bogdan E(2), Achkasov K(2), Maximova K(2), Grolman 
JM(3), Leonov S(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Innovative Medicine and Agrobiotechnology, Moscow Institute of 
Physics and Technology (MIPT), Dolgoprudny, Moscow Region, Russia. 
syuliam@gmail.com.
(2)Laboratory of Innovative Medicine and Agrobiotechnology, Moscow Institute of 
Physics and Technology (MIPT), Dolgoprudny, Moscow Region, Russia.
(3)The Biomechanic Materials Lab, Technion Israel Institute of Technology, 
Haifa, Israel.
(4)Laboratory of Innovative Medicine and Agrobiotechnology, Moscow Institute of 
Physics and Technology (MIPT), Dolgoprudny, Moscow Region, Russia. 
leonov.sv@mipt.ru.

Metastasis is the main cause of cancer-related mortality; therefore, the ability 
to predict its propensity can remarkably affect survival rate. Metastasis 
development is predicted nowadays by lymph-node status, tumor size, 
histopathology, and genetic testing. However, all these methods may have 
inaccuracies, and some require weeks to complete. Identifying novel prognostic 
markers will open an essential source for risk prediction, possibly guiding to 
elevated patient treatment by personalized strategies. Cancer cell invasion is a 
critical step in metastasis. The cytoskeletal mechanisms used by metastatic 
cells for the invasion process are very similar to the utilization of actin 
cytoskeleton in the endocytosis process. In the current study, the adhesion and 
encapsulation efficiency of low-cost carboxylate-modified fluorescent 
nanoparticles by breast cancer cells with high (HM) and low metastatic potential 
(LM) have been evaluated; benign cells were used as control. Using high-content 
fluorescence imaging and analysis, we have revealed (within a short time of 
1 h), that efficiency of nanoparticles adherence and encapsulation is 
sufficiently higher in HM cells compared to LM cells, while benign cells are not 
encapsulating or adhering the particles during experiment time at all. We have 
utilized custom-made automatic image analysis algorithms to find quantitative 
co-localization (Pearson's coefficients) of the nanoparticles with the imaged 
cells. The method proposed here is straightforward; it does not require especial 
equipment or expensive materials nor complicated cell manipulations, it may be 
potentially applicable for various cells, including patient-derived cells. 
Effortless and quantitative determination of the metastatic likelihood has the 
potential to be performed using patient-specific biopsy/surgery sample, which 
will directly influence the choice of protocols for cancer patient's treatment 
and, as a result, increase their life expectancy.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-33540-1
PMCID: PMC10387085
PMID: 37516753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


281. Sci Data. 2023 Jul 29;10(1):501. doi: 10.1038/s41597-023-02394-7.

A chromosome-level reference genome assembly of the Reeve's moray eel 
(Gymnothorax reevesii).

Zhang K(#)(1)(2), Huang Y(#)(3)(4), Zhang Y(#)(1)(2), Liang R(#)(1)(2), Li 
Q(1)(2), Li R(3), Zhao X(3), Bian C(3)(4), Chen Y(1)(2), Wu J(5), Shi Q(6)(7), 
Lin L(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Zhongkai University of Agriculture 
and Engineering, Guangzhou, 510225, China.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Water Environment and Aquatic Products Security 
Engineering Technology Research Center, Guangzhou, 510225, China.
(3)Shenzhen Key Lab of Marine Genomics, Guangdong Provincial Key Lab of 
Molecular Breeding in Marine Economic Animals, BGI Academy of Marine Sciences, 
BGI Marine, Shenzhen, 518081, China.
(4)Laboratory of Aquatic Genomics, College of Life Sciences and Oceanography, 
Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 518060, China.
(5)Agro-Tech Extension Center of Guangdong Province, Guangzhou, 510225, China.
(6)Shenzhen Key Lab of Marine Genomics, Guangdong Provincial Key Lab of 
Molecular Breeding in Marine Economic Animals, BGI Academy of Marine Sciences, 
BGI Marine, Shenzhen, 518081, China. shiqiong@genomics.cn.
(7)Laboratory of Aquatic Genomics, College of Life Sciences and Oceanography, 
Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 518060, China. shiqiong@genomics.cn.
(8)College of Animal Science and Technology, Zhongkai University of Agriculture 
and Engineering, Guangzhou, 510225, China. linli@zhku.edu.cn.
(9)Guangdong Provincial Water Environment and Aquatic Products Security 
Engineering Technology Research Center, Guangzhou, 510225, China. 
linli@zhku.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Due to potentially hostile behaviors and elusive habitats, moray eels 
(Muraenidae) as one group of apex predators in coral reefs all across the globe 
have not been well investigated. Here, we constructed a chromosome-level genome 
assembly for the representative Reeve's moray eel (Gymnothorax reevesii). This 
haplotype genome assembly is 2.17 Gb in length, and 97.87% of the sequences are 
anchored into 21 chromosomes. It contains 56.34% repetitive sequences and 23,812 
protein-coding genes, of which 96.77% are functionally annotated. This sequenced 
marine species in Anguilliformes makes a good complement to the genetic resource 
of eel genomes. It not only provides a genetic resource for in-depth studies of 
the Reeve's moray eel, but also enables deep-going genomic comparisons among 
various eels.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41597-023-02394-7
PMCID: PMC10387071
PMID: 37516767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


282. J Colloid Interface Sci. 2023 Nov 15;650(Pt B):1930-1940. doi: 
10.1016/j.jcis.2023.07.088. Epub 2023 Jul 20.

Anisotropic molecular diffusion in confinement I: Transport of small particles 
in potential and density gradients.

Höllring K(1), Baer A(1), Vučemilović-Alagić N(2), Smith DM(3), Smith AS(4).

Author information:
(1)PULS Group, Department of Physics, Friedrich-Alexander Universität 
Erlangen-Nürnberg, IZNF, Cauerstraße 3, 91058 Erlangen, Germany.
(2)PULS Group, Department of Physics, Friedrich-Alexander Universität 
Erlangen-Nürnberg, IZNF, Cauerstraße 3, 91058 Erlangen, Germany; Group of 
Computational Life Sciences, Department of Physical Chemistry, Ruđer Bošković 
Institute, Bijenička 54, Zagreb, 10000 Croatia.
(3)Group of Computational Life Sciences, Department of Physical Chemistry, Ruđer 
Bošković Institute, Bijenička 54, Zagreb, 10000 Croatia.
(4)PULS Group, Department of Physics, Friedrich-Alexander Universität 
Erlangen-Nürnberg, IZNF, Cauerstraße 3, 91058 Erlangen, Germany; Group of 
Computational Life Sciences, Department of Physical Chemistry, Ruđer Bošković 
Institute, Bijenička 54, Zagreb, 10000 Croatia. Electronic address: 
ana-suncana.smith@fau.de.

HYPOTHESIS: Diffusion in confinement is an important fundamental problem with 
significant implications for applications of supported liquid phases. However, 
resolving the spatially dependent diffusion coefficient, parallel and 
perpendicular to interfaces, has been a standing issue. In the vicinity of 
interfaces, density fluctuations as a consequence of layering locally impose 
statistical drift, which impedes the analysis of spatially dependent diffusion 
coefficients even further. We hypothesise, that we can derive a model to 
spatially resolve interface-perpendicular diffusion coefficients based on local 
lifetime statistics with an extension to explicitly account for the effect of 
local drift using the Smoluchowski equation, that allows us to resolve 
anisotropic and spatially dependent diffusivity landscapes at interfaces.
METHODS AND SIMULATIONS: An analytic relation between local crossing times in 
system slices and diffusivity as well as an explicit term for calculating 
drift-induced systematic errors is presented. The method is validated on 
Molecular Dynamics simulations of bulk water and applied to simulations of water 
in slit pores.
FINDINGS: After validation on bulk liquids, we clearly demonstrate the 
anisotropic nature of diffusion coefficients at interfaces. Significant spatial 
variations in the diffusivities correlate with interface-induced structuring but 
cannot be solely attributed to the drift induced by local density fluctuations.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcis.2023.07.088
PMID: 37517192

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


283. Surgeon. 2023 Jul 28:S1479-666X(23)00083-5. doi:
10.1016/j.surge.2023.06.007.  Online ahead of print.

Improved adherence to hip fracture standards reduces mortality after hip 
fractures.

Murphy EP(1), Murphy RP(2), McKenna D(3), Miller P(4), Doyle R(5), Hurson C(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma and Orthopaedics, St Vincents University Hospital Elm 
Park, Dublin 4, Ireland. Electronic address: evelynmurphy@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Geriatric and Stroke Medicine, Saolta Hospital Group, Galway 
University Hospital, Newcastle Road, Galway, Ireland. Electronic address: 
Robmurph8@hotmail.com.
(3)Department of Trauma and Orthopaedics, St Vincents University Hospital Elm 
Park, Dublin 4, Ireland. Electronic address: dmckenna100@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Trauma and Orthopaedics, St Vincents University Hospital Elm 
Park, Dublin 4, Ireland. Electronic address: Peggy.miller0496@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Geriatric Medicine, St. Vincents University Hospital Elm Park, 
Dublin 4, Ireland. Electronic address: Rachael.doyle@hse.ie.
(6)Department of Trauma and Orthopaedics, St Vincents University Hospital Elm 
Park, Dublin 4, Ireland. Electronic address: conorhurson@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Hip fractures are increasing in incidence due to increasing life 
expectancy. Mortality continues to improve but it is important to explore which 
factors are responsible for driving improvements.
METHODS: A cohort of hip fracture patients predating SARS-CoV-2 was examined to 
determine the predictors of adherence to the six Irish Hip Fracture Standards 
(IHFS) and the impact of adherence on short (30 day) and long term (1 year) 
mortality. Our primary aim was assess the impact of a single HFS and cumulative 
number of HFS on mortality after hip fracture. Our secondary aim was to 
determine the impact of the HFS which are intrinsically linked to specialist 
Geriatric care.
RESULTS: Across 962 patients, over 5 years, the factors which were associated 
with adherence to HFS were female gender, increasing ASA grade and being nursed 
on an orthopaedic ward. Patients with increasing ASA were more likely to have 
met HFS 4-6 (Geriatrician review HFS4, bone health HFS5 & specialist falls 
assessment HFS6), less likely to have surgery within 48 h are more likely to 
develop a pressure ulcer. If the patient was not nursed on an orthopaedic ward 
all HFS were less likely to be met. At 30 days HFS 4-6 were associated with a 
statistically significant odds ratio (OR) of being alive, while at one year HFS 
1 (admitted to an orthopaedic ward within 4 h), 5 and 6 were associated with a 
statistically significant OR of being alive. As increasing numbers of hip 
fracture standards were met patients were more likely to be alive at 30 days and 
one year.
CONCLUSION: This study has identified that improved adherence to hip fracture 
standards are associated with improved mortality at 30 days and one year.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surge.2023.06.007
PMID: 37517981

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors 
state that there are no competing conflicts of interest to declare.


284. Zootaxa. 2023 May 10;5284(1):167-176. doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.5284.1.7.

The Chirostyloidea of the Northeastern Pacific: Host Associations, Range 
Extensions and a New Species (Decapoda: Anomura).

Wicksten MK(1), Conway KW(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology; Texas A&M University; College Station; Texas 
77834-3258; U.S.A.. Wicksten@bio.tamu.edu.
(2)Department of Ecology and Conservation Biology and Biodiversity Research and 
Teaching Collections; Texas A&M University; College Station; Texas 77843-3258; 
U.S.A.. Kevin.Conway@tamu.edu.

Four species of chirostyloid squat lobsters, including a new species and a range 
extension are reported herein from California. Uroptychus nicoleae sp.nov. was 
collected on a black coral, Lillipathes sp. off San Clemente Island. It is 
characterized by a rostrum bearing 1 or 2 lateral teeth, the carapace having 5 
lateral spines and a belt of 15 spinules on the anterior dorsal surface, and the 
dactyls of pereopods 2-5 are curved and bearing a continuous row of 6-8 teeth. 
The new species is morphologically similar to U. bellus of the southwestern 
Pacific. The color in life is red and pink. Uroptychus occidentalis is reported 
for the first time off California. The chirostyloids Sternostylus iaspis and S. 
perarmatus, which also occur off California, are shown in video still images 
from a remotely operated vehicle. They inhabit antipatharians and soft corals 
(Primnoidae) and are easily distinguished from species of Uroptychus by their 
elongate chelipeds and spinose carapaces. We provide northern range extensions 
for Uroptychus bellus, Sternostylus defensus and Heteroptychus galapagos 
collected off Costa Rica.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.5284.1.7
PMID: 37518744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. JAR Life. 2023 Jul 25;12:56-60. doi: 10.14283/jarlife.2023.10. eCollection
2023.

Combined Exercise and Education Program: Effect of Smaller Group Size and Longer 
Duration on Physical Function and Social Engagement among Community-Dwelling 
Older Adults.

Yamamoto S(1), Ishii D(1)(2), Ishibashi K(1), Okamoto Y(3), Kawamura K(1), 
Takasaki Y(1), Tagami M(4), Tanamachi K(5)(6), Kohno Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Ibaraki Prefectural University of Health Sciences, Ibaraki, Japan.
(2)Department of Cognitive Behavioral Physiology, Chiba University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Chiba, Japan.
(3)University of Tsukuba Hospital, Tsukuba, Japan.
(4)Osaka University, Osaka, Japan.
(5)Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Tokyo Metropolitan University, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Exercise, education, and social engagement are critical 
interventions for older adults for a healthy life expectancy and to improve 
their physical function.
OBJECTIVE: To conduct a combined exercise and education (CEE) program for 
improved social engagement and physical function of older adults.
DESIGN: Based on a short-term program we conducted in our previous study, in 
this study, the program was conducted for half the number of participants of the 
earlier study but for a longer duration.
SETTING: A community of older adults in Ami, Japan, was the setting of the 
study.
PARTICIPANTS: 23 healthy older adults >65 years living in the community were the 
participants in the study.
INTERVENTIONS: Five 80-minute sessions conducted once in two weeks comprised 
60-min exercise instruction and 20-min educational lectures per session on 
health. We examined the improvement in physical and social engagement before and 
after participation. Physical function and health-related questionnaire data 
were collected before and after the program.
RESULTS: Data analysis from 15 participants showed improved physical performance 
but no effect on social engagement.
CONCLUSIONS: A higher program frequency, rather than program duration, may be 
vital to improving exercise performance and social engagement and maximizing the 
effects of high group cohesion in small groups. Further studies are needed to 
develop more effective interventions to extend healthy life expectancy.

© The Author(s) 2023.

DOI: 10.14283/jarlife.2023.10
PMCID: PMC10374984
PMID: 37519417

Conflict of interest statement: There is no relevant conflict of interest.


286. Cureus. 2023 Jun 27;15(6):e41052. doi: 10.7759/cureus.41052. eCollection
2023  Jun.

Patellar Tendon Reconstruction Using Peroneus Longus Tendon Autograft Following 
Revision Knee Arthroplasty: A Case Report.

Genc AS(1), Güzel N(1), Arar K(2), Agar A(3).

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Samsun Training and Research Hospital, Samsun, 
TUR.
(2)Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Samsun Gazi State Hospital, Samsun, TUR.
(3)Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Firat University, Faculty of Medicine, Elazığ, 
TUR.

Patellar tendon rupture is a rare but serious complication resulting in loss of 
knee extension that may develop during and after total knee arthroplasty and 
negatively affects the patient's quality of life. There are a number of surgical 
options available, from primary repair to reconstruction. Peroneus longus tendon 
autograft has begun to be used for knee extensor mechanism repair in recent 
years. In this case report, we aimed to present the case of a patient with 
traumatic patellar tendon rupture after revision knee arthroplasty. In 
conclusion, patellar tendon reconstruction using peroneus longus tendon 
autograft can be considered a successful method in selected patients following 
knee arthroplasty. It allows early rehabilitation via stable graft fixation and 
provides good clinical and functional outcomes in the late period.

Copyright © 2023, Genc et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.41052
PMCID: PMC10374346
PMID: 37519493

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


287. Cureus. 2023 Jun 25;15(6):e40932. doi: 10.7759/cureus.40932. eCollection
2023  Jun.

The Radiological Spectrum of Rhino-Oculo-Cerebral Mucormycosis.

Dinesh(1), Prasad U(1), Suman SK(1), Kumari M(2), Waghmare V(1).

Author information:
(1)Radiodiagnosis, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Patna, 
IND.
(2)Radiology, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Patna, IND.

Aim We aim to study the spectrum of imaging findings in patients with 
rhino-oculo-cerebral mucormycosis (ROCM). Materials and methods This 
retrospective descriptive study was performed in histopathologically confirmed 
cases of rhino-oculo-cerebral mucormycosis in a tertiary care center in Bihar, 
India. The case records of patients with radiological, cultural, and 
histological evidence of acute invasive ROCM were retrospectively evaluated for 
relevant radiological and clinical data between May 2021 and June 2022. Results 
The radiological evaluation included computed tomography (CT) and magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) scans done on 52 patients. The patient's average age was 
48 years. The ethmoid sinus was involved in 51 (98%) cases and the maxillary 
sinus in 50 (96%) cases. Bilateral sinus involvement (45, 86%) was the most 
common, followed by pansinus involvement (27, 52%). The orbit was involved in 39 
(75%) cases, the face in 25 (47%) cases, and retroantral fat stranding in 24 
(46%) cases. Mucosal thickening (91%) was the most common pattern of 
involvement, followed by complete opacification (77%). Osseous involvement was 
seen in 17 of 44 patients who had CT scans, and the majority of patients had 
extrasinus extension with intact bone. MRI revealed variable T2SI, with T2 
hyperintensity being the most common pattern. Heterogeneous enhancement in 
post-contrast imaging was the most common. Conclusion ROCM is a life-threatening 
invasive fungal infection, especially in an immunocompromised state. ROCM is 
characterized by a variety of imaging abnormalities on CT and MRI, although 
nonspecific. Imaging aids in suspicion or early diagnosis in appropriate 
clinical contexts, particularly in an immunocompromised state, and in 
determining the degree of involvement and complications. Early detection of ROCM 
and its complications enables proper treatment, which can lower the cost of 
care, morbidity, and mortality.

Copyright © 2023, . et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.40932
PMCID: PMC10374177
PMID: 37519552

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


288. Cureus. 2023 Jun 27;15(6):e41013. doi: 10.7759/cureus.41013. eCollection
2023  Jun.

Depression and Its Associated Factors Among the Elderly Population in India: A 
Review.

Vishwakarma D(1), Gaidhane A(2), Bhoi SR(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Epidemiology and Public Health, Datta Meghe Institute of Higher 
Education and Research, Wardha, IND.
(2)Department of Community Medicine and Public Health, Datta Meghe Institute of 
Higher Education and Research, Wardha, IND.

Over the last few decades, life expectancy has increased, particularly for old 
age people. This has resulted in an increased number of family members at a 
given time leading to more crowded households and thus causing stress in members 
of joint or large families. Lack of family support, the death of a loved one, 
isolation in the community due to poor physical health, and generational and 
communication gaps within the family, even though they reside under the same 
roof, are just a few of the things that can cause loneliness. These issues 
affect the mental health of elderly persons and may occasionally result in 
depression. Depression's high morbidity and mortality rates, particularly in 
older people, make it a serious public health concern. This review summarises 
that elderly persons have a higher prevalence of depression; regarding routine 
depression screening for the older population and their counselling, no precise 
guidelines are available. We used Medical Subject Heading (MeSH) phrases to 
search for published articles/studies/research in the English language in 
PubMed, Scopus, and Google Scholar. We also searched numerous government 
websites for recent data on geriatric depression and we analysed 35 articles. 
Old age is the transition stage where an individual must deal with various 
physical and mental health problems due to brain ageing that leads to changes in 
behaviour that affect their social well-being. The existing mental health 
programme should pay more attention to the problems with senior depression. In 
order to deal with the problem of depression, they might also involve 
non-governmental organisations (NGOs).

Copyright © 2023, Vishwakarma et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.41013
PMCID: PMC10374168
PMID: 37519597

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


289. Front Aging Neurosci. 2023 Jul 13;15:1213057. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2023.1213057.  eCollection 2023.

Myokines as mediators of exercise-induced cognitive changes in older adults: 
protocol for a comprehensive living systematic review and meta-analysis.

Vints WAJ(1)(2)(3), Gökçe E(4), Langeard A(5), Pavlova I(6), Çevik ÖS(7), 
Ziaaldini MM(8), Todri J(9), Lena O(9), Sakkas GK(10), Jak S(11), Zorba Zormpa 
I(12), Karatzaferi C(10), Levin O(1)(13), Masiulis N(1), Netz Y(1)(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Promotion and Rehabilitation, Lithuanian Sports 
University, Kaunas, Lithuania.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Research School Care and Public Health 
Research Institute (CAPHRI), Maastricht University, Maastricht, Netherlands.
(3)Adelante Zorggroep Centre of Expertise in Rehabilitation and Audiology, 
Hoensbroek, Netherlands.
(4)Sports Rehabilitation Laboratory, Ankara City Hospital, Ankara, Türkiye.
(5)COMETE, INSERM, UNICAEN, Normandie Univ, Caen, France.
(6)Department of Theory and Methods of Physical Culture, Lviv State University 
of Physical Culture, Lviv, Ukraine.
(7)Department of Physiology, Mersin University, Mersin, Türkiye.
(8)Department of Exercise Physiology, Faculty of Sport Sciences, Ferdowsi 
University of Mashhad, Mashhad, Iran.
(9)Department of Physiotherapy, Universidad Catolica San Antonio (UCAM), Murcia, 
Spain.
(10)Lifestyle Medicine and Experimental Physiology and Myology Lab, Department 
of Physical Education and Sports Science, The Center of Research and Evaluation 
of Human Performance (CREHP), University of Thessaly, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens (TEFAA) Campus, Karyes, Greece.
(11)Research Institute of Child Development and Education, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(12)Information and Library Centre, University of Ioannina, Ioannina, Greece.
(13)Movement Control and Neuroplasticity Research Group, Group Biomedical 
Sciences, Catholic University of Leuven, Heverlee, Belgium.
(14)The Levinsky-Wingate Academic Center, Wingate Campus, Netanya, Israel.

BACKGROUND: The world's population is aging, but life expectancy has risen more 
than healthy life expectancy (HALE). With respect to brain and cognition, the 
prevalence of neurodegenerative disorders increases with age, affecting health 
and quality of life, and imposing significant healthcare costs. Although the 
effects of physical exercise on cognition in advanced age have been widely 
explored, in-depth fundamental knowledge of the underlying mechanisms of the 
exercise-induced cognitive improvements is lacking. Recent research suggests 
that myokines, factors released into the blood circulation by contracting 
skeletal muscle, may play a role in mediating the beneficial effect of exercise 
on cognition. Our goal in this ongoing (living) review is to continuously map 
the rapidly accumulating knowledge on pathways between acute or chronic 
exercise-induced myokines and cognitive domains enhanced by exercise.
METHOD: Randomized controlled studies will be systematically collected at 
baseline and every 6 months for at least 5 years. Literature search will be 
performed online in PubMed, EMBASE, PsycINFO, Web of Science, SportDiscus, 
LILACS, IBECS, CINAHL, SCOPUS, ICTRP, and ClinicalTrials.gov. Risk of bias will 
be assessed using the Revised Cochrane Risk of Bias tool (ROB 2). A random 
effects meta-analysis with mediation analysis using meta-analytic structural 
equation modeling (MASEM) will be performed. The primary research question is to 
what extent exercise-induced myokines serve as mediators of cognitive function. 
Secondarily, the pooled effect size of specific exercise characteristics (e.g., 
mode of exercise) or specific older adults' populations (e.g., cognitively 
impaired) on the relationship between exercise, myokines, and cognition will be 
assessed. The review protocol was registered in PROSPERO (CRD42023416996).
DISCUSSION: Understanding the triad relationship between exercise, myokines and 
cognition will expand the knowledge on multiple integrated network systems 
communicating between skeletal muscles and other organs such as the brain, thus 
mediating the beneficial effects of exercise on health and performance. It may 
also have practical implications, e.g., if a certain myokine is found to be a 
mediator between exercise and cognition, the optimal exercise characteristics 
for inducing this myokine can be prescribed. The living review is expected to 
improve our state of knowledge and refine exercise regimes for enhancing 
cognitive functioning in diverse older adults' populations.
REGISTRATION: Systematic review and meta-analysis protocol was registered with 
the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO) on the 
24th of April 2023 (registration number CRD42023416996).

Copyright © 2023 Vints, Gökçe, Langeard, Pavlova, Çevik, Ziaaldini, Todri, Lena, 
Sakkas, Jak, Zorba (Zormpa), Karatzaferi, Levin, Masiulis and Netz.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2023.1213057
PMCID: PMC10374322
PMID: 37520128

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


290. Front Immunol. 2023 Jul 13;14:1162340. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2023.1162340. 
eCollection 2023.

Cerebrospinal fluid inflammatory biomarkers for disease progression in 
Alzheimer's disease and multiple sclerosis: a systematic review.

Temmerman J(1)(2)(3), Engelborghs S(1)(2)(3), Bjerke M(1)(2)(3)(4), D'haeseleer 
M(1)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Center for Neurosciences (C4N), Jette, Brussels, 
Belgium.
(2)Universiteit Antwerpen, Department of Biomedical Sciences and Institute 
Born-Bunge, Reference Center for Biological Markers of Dementia (BIODEM), 
Wilrijk, Antwerp, Belgium.
(3)Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel, Department of Neurology, Jette, Brussels, 
Belgium.
(4)Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel, Department of Clinical Biology, Laboratory 
of Clinical Neurochemistry, Jette, Brussels, Belgium.
(5)National MS Center (NMSC), Neurology, Melsbroek, Steenokkerzeel, Belgium.

Inflammatory processes are involved in the pathophysiology of both Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) and multiple sclerosis (MS) but their exact contribution to disease 
progression remains to be deciphered. Biomarkers are needed to define 
pathophysiological processes of these disorders, who may increasingly co-exist 
in the elderly generations of the future, due to the rising prevalence in both 
and ameliorated treatment options with improved life expectancy in MS. The 
purpose of this review was to provide a systematic overview of inflammatory 
biomarkers, as measured in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), that are associated 
with clinical disease progression. International peer-reviewed literature was 
screened using the PubMed and Web of Science databases. Disease progression had 
to be measured using clinically validated tests representing baseline functional 
and/or cognitive status, the evolution of such clinical scores over time and/or 
the transitioning from one disease stage to a more severe stage. The quality of 
included studies was systematically evaluated using a set of questions for 
clinical, neurochemical and statistical characteristics of the study. A total of 
84 papers were included (twenty-five for AD and 59 for MS). Elevated CSF levels 
of chitinase-3-like protein 1 (YKL-40) were associated with disease progression 
in both AD and MS. Osteopontin and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 were more 
specifically related to disease progression in AD, whereas the same was true for 
interleukin-1 beta, tumor necrosis factor alpha, C-X-C motif ligand 13, glial 
fibrillary acidic protein and IgG oligoclonal bands in MS. We observed a broad 
heterogeneity of studies with varying cohort characterization, non-disclosure of 
quality measures for neurochemical analyses and a lack of adequate longitudinal 
designs. Most of the retrieved biomarkers are related to innate immune system 
activity, which seems to be an important mediator of clinical disease 
progression in AD and MS. Overall study quality was limited and we have framed 
some recommendations for future biomarker research in this field.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/, identifier 
CRD42021264741.

Copyright © 2023 Temmerman, Engelborghs, Bjerke and D’haeseleer.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2023.1162340
PMCID: PMC10374015
PMID: 37520580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


291. Front Med (Lausanne). 2023 Jul 14;10:1222973. doi:
10.3389/fmed.2023.1222973.  eCollection 2023.

Prediction tool for renal adaptation after living kidney donation using 
interpretable machine learning.

Jeon J(1), Yu JY(2), Song Y(3)(4), Jung W(4), Lee K(1), Lee JE(1), Huh W(1), Cha 
WC(3)(5), Jang HR(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, 
Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biomedical Systems Informatics, Yonsei University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Digital Health, Samsung Advanced Institute for Health Sciences 
and Technology (SAIHST), Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(4)Smart Health Lab, Research Institute of Future Medicine, Samsung Medical 
Center, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Emergency Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan 
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

INTRODUCTION: Post-donation renal outcomes are a crucial issue for living kidney 
donors considering young donors' high life expectancy and elderly donors' 
comorbidities that affect kidney function. We developed a prediction model for 
renal adaptation after living kidney donation using interpretable machine 
learning.
METHODS: The study included 823 living kidney donors who underwent nephrectomy 
in 2009-2020. AutoScore, a machine learning-based score generator, was used to 
develop a prediction model. Fair and good renal adaptation were defined as 
post-donation estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of ≥ 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 
and ≥ 65% of the pre-donation values, respectively.
RESULTS: The mean age was 45.2 years; 51.6% were female. The model included 
pre-donation demographic and laboratory variables, GFR measured by 
diethylenetriamine pentaacetate scan, and computed tomography kidney volume/body 
weight of both kidneys and the remaining kidney. The areas under the receiver 
operating characteristic curve were 0.846 (95% confidence interval, 0.762-0.930) 
and 0.626 (0.541-0.712), while the areas under the precision-recall curve were 
0.965 (0.944-0.978) and 0.709 (0.647-0.788) for fair and good renal adaptation, 
respectively. An interactive clinical decision support system was developed.
CONCLUSION: The prediction tool for post-donation renal adaptation showed good 
predictive capability and may help clinical decisions through an easy-to-use 
web-based application.

Copyright © 2023 Jeon, Yu, Song, Jung, Lee, Lee, Huh, Cha and Jang.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2023.1222973
PMCID: PMC10375292
PMID: 37521345

Conflict of interest statement: The remaining authors declare that the research 
was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that 
could be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The handling editor KH 
