Zürcherstrasse 111, 8903, Birmensdorf, Switzerland. marco.moretti@wsl.ch.
(#)Contributed equally

Cities can host significant biological diversity. Yet, urbanisation leads to the 
loss of habitats, species, and functional groups. Understanding how multiple 
taxa respond to urbanisation globally is essential to promote and conserve 
biodiversity in cities. Using a dataset encompassing six terrestrial faunal taxa 
(amphibians, bats, bees, birds, carabid beetles and reptiles) across 379 cities 
on 6 continents, we show that urbanisation produces taxon-specific changes in 
trait composition, with traits related to reproductive strategy showing the 
strongest response. Our findings suggest that urbanisation results in four trait 
syndromes (mobile generalists, site specialists, central place foragers, and 
mobile specialists), with resources associated with reproduction and diet likely 
driving patterns in traits associated with mobility and body size. Functional 
diversity measures showed varied responses, leading to shifts in trait space 
likely driven by critical resource distribution and abundance, and 
taxon-specific trait syndromes. Maximising opportunities to support taxa with 
different urban trait syndromes should be pivotal in conservation and management 
programmes within and among cities. This will reduce the likelihood of biotic 
homogenisation and helps ensure that urban environments have the capacity to 
respond to future challenges. These actions are critical to reframe the role of 
cities in global biodiversity loss.

© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-023-39746-1
PMCID: PMC10406945
PMID: 37550318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


379. BMC Psychiatry. 2023 Aug 7;23(1):566. doi: 10.1186/s12888-023-05053-8.

Introducing Braining-physical exercise as adjunctive therapy in psychiatric 
care: a retrospective cohort study of a new method.

Anger Å(#)(1)(2), Wallerblad A(#)(3), Kaaman L(3), Broman R(4), Holmberg J(4), 
Lundgren T(4), Salomonsson S(4), Sundberg CJ(5)(6), Martinsson L(4)(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Psychiatry Research, Department of Clinical Neuroscience, 
Karolinska Institutet, Norra Stationsgatan 69, Plan 7, 113 64, Stockholm, 
Sweden. asa.susanna.anger@ki.se.
(2)Stockholm Health Care Services, Region Stockholm, Stockholm, Sweden. 
asa.susanna.anger@ki.se.
(3)Stockholm Health Care Services, Region Stockholm, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Centre for Psychiatry Research, Department of Clinical Neuroscience, 
Karolinska Institutet, Norra Stationsgatan 69, Plan 7, 113 64, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(5)Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Patients with severe mental disorders suffer from higher rates of 
poor somatic health and have shorter life expectancy than the average 
population. Physical activity can treat and prevent several diseases, e.g. 
cardiovascular and metabolic disorders as well as psychiatric symptoms. It is 
therefore of utmost importance to develop effective methods to integrate 
physical activity into psychiatric care. To meet this need, the physical 
activity intervention Braining was developed. This study aims to describe 
Braining, to assess the number of patients reached during the first years of 
pilot testing, to analyze clinical data in the group of patients participating 
in Braining 2017-2020 and to assess the intervention.
METHODS: In this descriptive retrospective study we analyzed data from all 
patients participating in Braining training sessions ≥ 3 times (n = 239), the 
Braining Participants. Regular patients at the clinic served as a comparison. 
Furthermore, medical records were studied for a smaller cohort (n = 51), the 
Braining Pilot Cohort. Data was analyzed using Chi-square and Fisher's tests.
RESULTS: During the introduction period of Braining, 580 patients attended an 
information meeting about Braining, or at least one training session. 239 
patients participated in ≥ 3 training sessions, considered to be participants of 
Braining. These Braining Participants (n = 239), ages 19 to 82, males 23.4%, 
attended between 3 and 308 training sessions (median 9). The main diagnoses were 
affective and anxiety disorders. Number of diagnoses ranged from 0 to 10 
(median = 2). For the subsample, the Braining Pilot Cohort (n = 51), 
participants attended between 3 and 208 training sessions (median = 20). Twelve 
percent were working full-time, and symptom severity of depression and general 
anxiety was moderate. Two thirds had ≥ 3 different classes of medication. 
Regarding metabolic morbidity, 28 had been diagnosed with hypertension, though 
blood lipids, blood glucose as well as blood pressure were within the normal 
range. Thirty-seven percent were prescribed Physical Activity on Prescription 
during 2017-2020. One severe adverse event was reported.
CONCLUSIONS: The Braining intervention reached all age-groups and patients with 
a wide and representative diagnostic panorama, suggesting that Braining could be 
a promising and safe method for implementing physical activity in a psychiatric 
patient population.

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-023-05053-8
PMCID: PMC10405422
PMID: 37550641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


380. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2023 Aug 11;59(8):650-656. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112142-20230406-00142.

[Analysis of the incidence and burden of intraocular foreign bodies in China 
based on age-period-cohort model].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Cui H(1), Sun HX(2), Wang ZZ(3), Liu L(1), Wang S(1), Qu JC(1), Chen ZM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Harbin 242 Hospital, Harbin 150066, China.
(2)Heilongjiang Academy of Medical Sciences, Harbin 150081, China.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, No.2 People's Hospital of Jingdezhen, Jingdezhen 
333000, China.

Objective: This study aims to analyze the incidence, disease burden, and trend 
of intraocular foreign bodies in China from 1990 to 2019, and to analyze the 
trend of changes in age, period, and cohort of Chinese men. Methods: The data 
related to the incidence rate and disease burden of intraocular foreign bodies 
in China from 1990 to 2019 were obtained from the Global Burden of Disease 
Database (GBD database) on the website of the Institute for Health Indicators 
and Evaluation (IHME) of the University of Washington, United States, and the 
annual percentage rate change (AAPC) of intraocular foreign bodies in China was 
calculated using the Joinpoint software to describe the long-term trend of their 
incidence rate and disease burden over time. Using Stata17 software, an age 
period cohort model was constructed to analyze the age, period, and cohort 
factors affecting intraocular foreign bodies in men. Results: In 2019, the 
incidence rate of intraocular foreign bodies in China was 791.20/100 000, and 
the DALY rate was 10.32/100 000, with an average annual decline rate of 1.70% 
and 1.48% respectively. In 2019, the number of cases of intraocular foreign 
bodies in China was 11.253 6 million, and the DALY was 1 812.29 million person 
years. Among them, the incidence and disease burden of intraocular foreign 
bodies in men were more severe than those in women, and the incidence and 
disease burden risk of intraocular foreign bodies in men aged 30-35 and 45-50 
were the highest. The incidence and disease burden risk of intraocular foreign 
bodies in elderly men gradually increased. Conclusions: As a common ophthalmic 
disease, the incidence of intraocular foreign bodies and the DALY rate are 
declining, but the disease burden is increasing. With the aging of the 
population, the incidence of intraocular foreign bodies in the elderly will 
further increase in the future, which should be considered by policy makers. The 
findings of this study can help governments and healthcare planners formulate 
practical and targeted policy responses.

Publisher: 目的： 探讨1990—2019年中国眼内异物的发病和疾病负担情况及其变化趋势，以及中国男性在年龄、时期和队列3个方面的变化趋势。 方法： 
二次研究。通过美国华盛顿大学健康指标与评估研究所（IHME）网站全球疾病负担（GBD）数据库获取1990—2019年中国眼内异物发病率与疾病负担相关数据，包括发病人数、伤残调整生命年（DALY）及对应的年龄标准化率，利用Joinpoint软件计算各指标的平均年度变化百分比（AAPC），用以描述发病率和疾病负担随时间变化的长期趋势。利用Stata17软件构建年龄-时期-队列模型，分析影响男性眼内异物发病情况的年龄、时期和出生队列因素。 
结果： 
2019年，中国人群眼内异物发病率为791.20/10万，DALY率为10.32/10万，AAPC分别为-1.70%和-1.48%。2019年中国人群眼内异物发病例数为1 
125.36万，DALY为181 
229万人年，其中男性眼内异物发病人数和疾病负担情况较女性更加严重，并且30~34岁男性眼内异物的发病风险最高，效应系数为533.73，45~59岁男性眼内异物DALY风险最高，效应系数为3.57。 
结论： 
1990—2019年中国人群眼内异物的发病率和DALY率呈下降趋势，其中男性人群眼内异物发病率和疾病负担远高于女性，30~35岁男性人群眼内异物的发病率最高，45~50岁男性人群的眼内异物疾病负担最重。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112142-20230406-00142
PMID: 37550973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. J Prev Med Public Health. 2023 Jul;56(4):291-302. doi: 10.3961/jpmph.23.192.
 Epub 2023 Jun 26.

Updating Korean Disability Weights for Causes of Disease: Adopting an Add-on 
Study Method.

Im D(1), Mahmudah NA(1)(2), Yoon SJ(3), Kim YE(4), Lee DH(5), Kim YH(5), Jung 
YS(6), Ock M(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Ulsan University Hospital, University of 
Ulsan College of Medicine, Ulsan, Korea.
(2)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Public 
Health, and Nursing, Universitas Gadjah Mada, Yogyakarta, Indonesia.
(3)Department of Preventive Medicine, Korea University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.
(4)Big Data Department, National Health Insurance Service, Wonju, Korea.
(5)Research & Statistics Team, Korean Health Promotion Institute, Seoul, Korea.
(6)Artificial Intelligence and Big-Data Convergence Center, Gil Medical Center, 
Gachon University College of Medicine, Incheon, Korea.
(7)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVES: Disability weights require regular updates, as they are influenced 
by both diseases and societal perceptions. Consequently, it is necessary to 
develop an up-to-date list of the causes of diseases and establish a survey 
panel for estimating disability weights. Accordingly, this study was conducted 
to calculate, assess, modify, and validate disability weights suitable for 
Korea, accounting for its cultural and social characteristics.
METHODS: The 380 causes of disease used in the survey were derived from the 2019 
Global Burden of Disease Collaborative Network and from 2019 and 2020 Korean 
studies on disability weights for causes of disease. Disability weights were 
reanalyzed by integrating the findings of an earlier survey on disability 
weights in Korea with those of the additional survey conducted in this study. 
The responses were transformed into paired comparisons and analyzed using probit 
regression analysis. Coefficients for the causes of disease were converted into 
predicted probabilities, and disability weights in 2 models (model 1 and 2) were 
rescaled using a normal distribution and the natural logarithm, respectively.
RESULTS: The mean values for the 380 causes of disease in models 1 and 2 were 
0.488 and 0.369, respectively. Both models exhibited the same order of 
disability weights. The disability weights for the 300 causes of disease present 
in both the current and 2019 studies demonstrated a Pearson correlation 
coefficient of 0.994 (p=0.001 for both models). This study presents a detailed 
add-on approach for calculating disability weights.
CONCLUSIONS: This method can be employed in other countries to obtain timely 
disability weight estimations.

DOI: 10.3961/jpmph.23.192
PMCID: PMC10415644
PMID: 37551067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST The authors have no 
conflicts of interest associated with the material presented in this paper.


382. Cancer Med. 2023 Sep;12(17):18269-18280. doi: 10.1002/cam4.6420. Epub 2023
Aug  8.

Giving information strategically and transparently: A pilot trial of the 
Oncolo-GIST intervention to promote patients' prognostic understanding.

Prigerson HG(1)(2), Russell D(3), Kakarala SE(1)(2), Derry-Vick HM(4), Shah 
MA(5), Saxena A(5), Reyna VF(6), Ocean A(5), Scheff R(5), Maciejewski 
PK(1)(2)(7), Epstein AS(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine, Weill 
Cornell Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(2)Cornell Center for Research on End-of-Life Care, Weill Cornell Medicine, New 
York, New York, USA.
(3)Department of Sociology, Appalachian State University, Boone, North Carolina, 
USA.
(4)Hackensack Meridian School of Medicine, New Jersey, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Weill 
Cornell Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(6)Cornell University, Human Neuroscience Institute, Ithaca, New York, USA.
(7)Department of Radiology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(8)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York, USA.

PURPOSE: Most patients with cancer lack the prognostic understanding necessary 
to make informed decisions. We tested the feasibility and acceptability of the 
Oncolo-GIST ("Giving Information Strategically and Transparently, GIST") 
intervention and explored its associations with patients' improved prognostic 
understanding.
METHODS: The Oncolo-GIST intervention distills prognostic discussions into 
easy-to-understand talking points. Patients with metastatic cancers that 
progressed on ≥1 line of chemotherapy and not expected to survive 12 months 
(n = 31) were recruited from October 2020 through November 2022. We compared 
patients who discussed their progressive scans with an oncologist trained in the 
GIST technique or not (i.e., usual care). A primary outcome was prognostic 
understanding (e.g., patients reporting a life-expectancy of months) assessed 
within a week of the scan discussion visit.
RESULTS: Oncologists (n = 4) appeared receptive to the Oncolo-GIST intervention 
and scored nearly perfectly on post-training tests of material mastery after 
a < 2-h tutorial. Post-scan discussion visit, 100% of patients who met with an 
Oncolo-GIST-trained clinician understood that their cancer was considered 
incurable (a 31% improvement from pre-visit) compared with 91% of patients 
meeting with usual care oncologists (an 18% improvement); 33% of patients who 
met with an Oncolo-GIST-trained oncologist understood that they likely had 
months, not years, compared to 18% in the usual care group. No statistically 
significant differences emerged for these changes, nor for therapeutic alliance, 
anxiety, or depression scores between groups.
CONCLUSION: Oncolo-GIST appears to be an easily learned approach to improve 
prognostic understanding that neither undermines therapeutic alliances nor 
increases patients' anxiety or depressive symptoms. Efficacy testing in a larger 
trial is warranted.

© 2023 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.6420
PMCID: PMC10523975
PMID: 37551156

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Epstein discloses royalties from Up‐To‐Date 
for peer reviewing GI medical oncology and palliative care topic reviews; Dr. 
Ocean discloses royalties from Guardant Health and Natera, Dr. Shah discloses 
research funding from Merck Inc., Bristol Meyers Squibb, and Oncoloys Biopharma; 
Dr. Derry‐Vick discloses an unrelated financial relationship with Dechra through 
her spouse's employment, Dr. Saxena discloses relationships to AstraZeneca 
Advisory Boards and G1 Therapeutics. All the remaining authors report nothing to 
disclose.


383. Cureus. 2023 Jul 13;15(7):e41856. doi: 10.7759/cureus.41856. eCollection
2023  Jul.

Adult Hospitalists' Knowledge of Radiation Oncology in an Independent 
Nonacademic Healthcare System in Albuquerque, New Mexico.

Lingas EC(1), Ganipisetti VM(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Medicine, Presbyterian Hospital, Albuquerque, USA.

Radiation oncology (RO) plays a crucial role in cancer care; cancer patients 
often undergo their initial diagnostic study by general physicians. However, 
studies have shown that most physicians are uncomfortable referring cancer 
patients to radiation therapy (RT). To assess the knowledge of RO among 
non-oncology physicians, we sent invitations to complete an online survey that 
required the responders to self-rate their understanding of RT and objective 
assessment. The survey was targeted at hospitalists and primary care physicians. 
Forty physicians responded to the survey, and 89.7% practiced primarily as 
hospitalists, with 67% being Internal Medicine graduates. Fifty percent of 
physicians have referred patients to RO before, although more than 90% have not 
done additional CME (continuing medical education) in Oncology. More than 50% of 
recent graduates (one to five years post-residency) self-rated themselves as 
"not knowledgeable" when it comes referral process to RO as well as general 
knowledge regarding RT. Factors, such as "type of cancer," "patients' wishes," 
and "life expectancy," are most cited as factors influencing the decision for a 
referral.

Copyright © 2023, Lingas et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.41856
PMCID: PMC10404457
PMID: 37551222

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


384. Tunis Med. 2022 Decembre;100(12):847-862.

Epidemiology of elderly dependency in Tunisia. HSHS study 7.

[Article in English]

Rouis H, Ben Abdelaziz A, Zanina Y, Ben Yahia F, Khelil M, Zoghlami C, Ben Rejeb 
N, Omezzine A, Bouslama A, Ben Abdelaziz A.

AIM: Measure the functional autonomy of elderly people and identify its 
components and determinants in the HSHS (Hammam-Sousse Sahloul Heart Study) 
population (phase 2009, Tunisia).
METHODS: This study was concerned with the quality of life of elderly people 
aged 65 years or more, living at home from the HSHS cohort divided into two 
groups: young-old (65-74 years old) and old-old (≥75 years old). The autonomy 
was assessed using the "Activities of Daily Living" (ADL) scale ranging from 0 
to 6, the "Instrumental Activities of Daily Living" (IADL) scale ranging from 0 
to 8 and, the combined scale ranging from zero to 14, iso-weighted at one point 
per activity. Autonomy in daily activities was retained for an ADL score=6, and 
an IADL score (F=8; H=5). Subjects with an overall score (sum of ADL and IADL) 
of 10-14 points were considered globally autonomous.
RESULTS: The population study was predominantly female (sex-ratio=0,6) with an 
important proportion of old-old (M=43%, F=37%). Autonomy rates were by ADL 
(M=57.4%, F=36.1%, p < 10-2), IADL (M=16%, F=23.9%), and by combined score 
(M=60.6%, F=69%, p=NS). The typology of dependency was dominated by transferring 
(M=35%, F=61%) and bathing (M=14%, F=19%) for ADL activities, and shopping 
(M=36%, F=49%) and the use of means of transport (M=22%, F=43%) for IADL 
activities. After adjustment, autonomy in daily activities was attributed to two 
independent factors: male sex (ORa=3.98, CI95% [1.328-11.971]) and age group 
65-75 (ORa=4.04, CI95% [2.039- 8.025]). Autonomy in instrumental activities was 
associated with age group (ORa=31.5, CI95% [4.087-233.514]). Finally, overall 
autonomy (current and instrumental) was associated independently after logistic 
regression, with four independent factors, two of which were not modifiable: 
being female (ORa=3.1, CI95% [1.2-8.1]) and 65 to 75 years (ORa=6.2, CI95% 
[3.1-12.3]) and two modifiable factors: no recent hospitalization (ORa=3.8, 
CI95% [1.4-10.4]) and a sufficient level of physical activity (ORa=2.6, CI95% 
[1.3-5.3]).
CONCLUSION: The physical dependency rate of the elderly is very high in Tunisia. 
The promotion of physical activity, the extension of similar studies and the 
development of could improve the support of these people.

Objective: Measure the functional autonomy of elderly people and identify its 
components and determinants in the HSHS (Hammam-Sousse Sahloul Heart Study) 
population (phase 2009, Tunisia) Methods: This study was concerned with the 
quality of life of elderly people aged 65 years or more, living at home from the 
HSHS cohort divided into two groups: young-old (65-74 years old) and old-old 
(≥75 years old). The autonomy was assessed using the “Activities of Daily 
Living” (ADL) scale ranging from 0 to 6, the “Instrumental Activities of Daily 
Living” (IADL) scale ranging from 0 to 8 and, the combined scale ranging from 
zero to 14, iso-weighted at one point per activity. Autonomy in daily activities 
was retained for an ADL score=6, and an IADL score (F=8; H=5). Subjects with an 
overall score (sum of ADL and IADL) of 10-14 points were considered globally 
autonomous. Results: The population study was predominantly female 
(sex-ratio=0,6) with an important proportion of old-old (M=43%, F=37%). Autonomy 
rates were by ADL (M=57.4%, F=36.1%, p<10-2), IADL (M=16%, F=23.9%), and by 
combined score (M=60.6%, F=69%, p=NS). The typology of dependency was dominated 
by transferring (M=35%, F=61%) and bathing (M=14%, F=19%) for ADL activities, 
and shopping (M=36%, F=49%) and the use of means of transport (M=22%, F=43%) for 
IADL activities. After adjustment, autonomy in daily activities was attributed 
to two independent factors: male sex (ORa=3.98, CI95% [.328-11.971]) and age 
group 65-75 (ORa=4.04, CI95% [.039-8.025]). Autonomy in instrumental activities 
was associated with age group (ORa=31.5, CI95% [.087-233.514]). Finally, overall 
autonomy (current and instrumental) was associated independently after logistic 
regression, with four independent factors, two of which were not modifiable: 
being female (ORa=3.1, CI95% [.2-8.1]) and 65 to 75 years (ORa=6.2, CI95% 
[.1-12.3]) and two modifiable factors: no recent hospitalization (ORa=3.8, CI95% 
[.4-10.4]) and a sufficient level of physical activity (ORa=2.6, CI95% 
[.3-5.3]). Conclusion: The physical dependency rate of the elderly is very high 
in Tunisia. The promotion of physical activity, the extension of similar studies 
and the development of could improve the support of these people.

الهدف : قياس درجة الاستقلالية الوظيفية لكبار السن في أنشطة ADL و IADL، وتحديد 
مكوناتها والعوامل المحددة لها، في صفوف السكان HSHS (H ammam-Sousse S ahloul H 
eart S tudy ، المرحلة 2009، تونس). الطرق : اهتمت هذه دراسة خاصة بنوعية حياة 
الأشخاص الذين تتراوح أعمارهم بين 65 عامًا وأكثر والذين يعيشون في المنزل في 
مجموعة HSHS، مقسمة إلى مجموعتين: (65-74 عامًا) و الطاعنين في السِنّ (≥75عامًا). 
تم تقييم استقلالية كبار السن من خلال مقاييس أنشطة الحياة اليومية (ADL)، التي 
تتراوح من صفر إلى ستة، ومقاييس الأنشطة الآلية للحياة اليومية (IADL)، والتي 
تتراوح من صفر إلى ثمانية، ومجمعة (تتراوح من صفر إلى 14)، مرجحة عند نقطة واحدة 
لكل نشاط. تم استخدام الاستقلالية في الأنشطة اليومية للحصول على درجة ADL=6 ودرجة 
IADL (F=8؛ H=5). تم اعتبار الأشخاص الذين حصلوا على درجة إجمالية (مجموع ADL 
وIADL) من 10-14 نقطة مستقلين بشكل عام. النتائج : كانت الدراسة السكانية في الغالب 
من الإناث ( sex-ratio =0.6) مع نسبة مهمة من الطاعنين في السِنّ (M=43٪، F=37٪). 
كانت معدلات الاستقلالية بواسطة ADL (M=36٪، F=49٪، p<10-2)، IADL (M=16٪، F=23.9٪) 
وبالدرجة المجمعة (M=60.6٪، F=69٪، p=NS). سيطر على تصنيف التبعية نقل (M=35٪، 
F=61٪) والاستحمام (M=14٪، F=19٪) لأنشطة ADL، والتسوق (H=36٪، F=49٪) واستخدام 
وسائل النقل (H=22٪، F=43٪) لأنشطة IADL. وبعد التعديل، تُعزى الاستقلالية في 
الأنشطة اليومية إلى عاملين مستقلين: الجنس الذكوري (ORa=3.98، CI95% [ 
.328-11.971]) والفئة العمرية 65-75 (ORa=4.04، CI95% [ .039-8.025](. ارتبط 
الاستقلال الذاتي في الأنشطة الآلية بالطبقة العمرية (ORa=31,5، [233.514-4.087] 
CI95%). وأخيرا، ارتبط الاستقلالية الشاملة (الحالية والأداتية) ارتباطا مستقلا بعد 
الانحدار اللوجستي، مع أربعة عوامل مستقلة، اثنان منها لا يمكن تعديلهما: المرأة 
(ORa=3.1، [ .1-1.2] CI95%) و 65 إلى 75 سنة (ORa=6.2، [ .3-3.1] CI95%) واثنتين 
قابلتين للتعديل: عدم دخول المستشفى مؤخرًا (ORa=3.8، CI95% [ .4‑1.4]) ومستوى كافٍ 
من النشاط البدني (ORa=2.6، CI95% [ .3‑1.3]). الخلاصة : ومعدل الإعالة البدنية 
للمسنين مرتفع جدا في تونس. ومن شأن تعزيز النشاط البدني، وتوسيع نطاق الدراسات 
المماثلة، وتطوير وظائف المساعدة المنزلية أن يحسن دعم هؤلاء الأشخاص. الكلمات 
المفتاحية : أنشطة الحياة اليومية- كبار السن- الإعاقة - الانتشار - عوامل الاختطار 
- تحليل متعدد المتغيرات - تونس

PMCID: PMC10500754
PMID: 37551535

Conflict of interest statement: The author declare that no competing interests 
exist.


385. J Craniofac Surg. 2023 Oct 1;34(7):e686-e688. doi:
10.1097/SCS.0000000000009596.  Epub 2023 Aug 7.

Idiopathic Palatal Fistula of the Left Soft Palate.

Suzuki Y(1)(2), Toriumi M(1), Takano J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, JCHO Saitama Medical 
Center, Saitama.
(2)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Keio University School of 
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

Palatal fistulas, often congenital or trauma-induced, are occasionally 
encountered in the field of plastic surgery. We report a case of a non-medial 
3 mm soft palate fistula in a 43-year-old woman, with no apparent trigger or 
history of local trauma or infection. The fistula, extending 2 cm toward the 
lateral pharyngeal wall, was surgically removed under general anesthesia as it 
was impacting the patient's quality of life. The lumen was stained, and the 
fistula was removed in one mass. The excised tissue was covered with stratified 
squamous epithelium and was surrounded by adherent tonsil tissue. No recurrence 
was observed postoperatively. Despite an initial suspicion of a congenital 
cause, the fistula's lateral extension and histology suggested a possible origin 
from the second pharyngeal pouch. To date, there are no reports of fistulas 
opening on the soft palate. Therefore, this presents an exceptionally rare 
instance of a soft palate fistula.

Copyright © 2023 by Mutaz B. Habal, MD.

DOI: 10.1097/SCS.0000000000009596
PMID: 37552136

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.


386. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2023 Dec;89(6):1149-1158. doi:
10.1016/j.jaad.2023.07.1024.  Epub 2023 Aug 6.

Long-term safety and efficacy of risankizumab for the treatment of 
moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis: Interim analysis of the LIMMitless 
open-label extension trial up to 5 years of follow-up.

Papp KA(1), Blauvelt A(2), Puig L(3), Ohtsuki M(4), Beissert S(5), Gooderham 
M(6), Amin AZ(7), Liu J(8), Wu T(8), Azam T(8), Stakias V(8), Espaillat R(8), 
Sinvhal R(8), Soliman AM(8), Pang Y(8), Chen MM(8), Lebwohl MG(9).

Author information:
(1)Alliance Clinical Research and Probity Medical Research, Waterloo. Electronic 
address: kapapp@probitymedical.com.
(2)Oregon Medical Research Center, Portland.
(3)Department of Dermatology, IIB Sant Pau, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant 
Pau, Barcelona.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Jichi Medical University, Tochigi.
(5)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, TU Dresden, 
Dresden.
(6)SKiN Centre for Dermatology, Probity Medical Research, and Department of 
Medicine, Queen's University, Ontario.
(7)Northwestern Medicine Dermatology, Chicago.
(8)AbbVie Inc., North Chicago.
(9)Department of Dermatology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York.

BACKGROUND: Psoriasis is a chronic, inflammatory skin disease often requiring 
long-term therapy.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of risankizumab in 
patients with psoriasis.
METHODS: LIMMitless is an ongoing phase 3, open-label extension study evaluating 
the long-term safety and efficacy of continuous risankizumab 150 mg every 
12 weeks for adults with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis following multiple 
phase 2/3 base studies. This interim analysis assessed safety (ie, monitored 
treatment-emergent adverse events [TEAEs]) through 304 weeks. Efficacy 
assessments included determining the proportion of patients who achieved ≥90% or 
100% improvement in Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI 90/100), static 
Physician's Global Assessment of clear/almost clear (sPGA 0/1), and Dermatology 
Life Quality Index of no effect on patient's life (DLQI 0/1) through 256 weeks.
RESULTS: Among 897 patients randomized to risankizumab in the base studies, 706 
were still ongoing at data cutoff. Rates of TEAEs, TEAEs leading to 
discontinuation, and TEAEs of safety interest were low. At week 256, 85.1%/52.3% 
of patients achieved PASI 90/100, respectively, 85.8% achieved sPGA 0/1, and 
76.4% achieved DLQI 0/1.
LIMITATIONS: Open-label study with no placebo or active-comparator group.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term continuous risankizumab treatment for up to 5 years was 
well tolerated and demonstrated high and durable efficacy.

Copyright © 2023 American Academy of Dermatology, Inc. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaad.2023.07.1024
PMID: 37553030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest Dr Papp has received 
research funds from or is a consultant and/or speaker for AbbVie, Amgen, 
Arcutis, Astellas, Bausch Health, Baxalta, Baxter, BI, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Celgene, Coherus, Dermavant, Dermira, EMD Serono, Evelo, Galderma, Genentech, 
Gilead, Incyte, Janssen, LEO, Lilly, Meiji Seika Pharma, Merck, Mitsubishi 
Tanabe Pharma, Novartis, Ortho Dermatologics, Pfizer, Regeneron, Sandoz, Sanofi 
Genzyme, Stiefel, Sun Pharma, Takeda, and UCB. He is a committee member for 
PSOLAR and PURE registries. Dr Blauvelt has served as a speaker (received 
honoraria) for AbbVie, Bristol Myers Squibb, Lilly, Pfizer, Regeneron, and 
Sanofi, served as a scientific adviser (received honoraria) for AbbVie, 
Abcentra, Aclaris, Affibody, Aligos, Almirall, Alumis, Amgen, Anaptysbio, 
Arcutis, Arena, Aslan, Athenex, Bluefin Biomedicine, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Bristol Myers Squibb, Cara Therapeutics, Dermavant, EcoR1, Escient, Evelo, 
Evommune, Forte, Galderma, HighlightII Pharma, Incyte, InnoventBio, Janssen, 
Landos, Leo, Lilly, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Rani, Rapt, Regeneron, Sanofi 
Genzyme, Spherix Global Insights, Sun Pharma, TLL Pharmaceutical, TrialSpark, 
UCB, Union, Vibliome, and Xencor, and has acted as a clinical study investigator 
(institution has received clinical study funds) for AbbVie, Acelyrin, Almirall, 
Alumis, Amgen, Arcutis, Athenex, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Concert, Dermavant, Evelo, Evommune, Galderma, Incyte, Janssen, LEO, Lilly, 
Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Regeneron, Sun Pharma, and UCB. Dr Puig has received 
consultancy/speaker’s honoraria from and/or participated in clinical trials 
sponsored by AbbVie, Almirall, Amgen, Baxalta, Biogen, BI, Celgene, EMD Serono, 
Gebro, Janssen, LEO, Lilly, Merck, Mylan, Novartis, Pfizer, Regeneron, Roche, 
Samsung, Sandoz, Sanofi, and UCB. Dr Ohtsuki has received honoraria or fees for 
serving on advisory boards or speakers’ bureaus, fees for consulting, and grants 
for investigator activities from AbbVie, Amgen, BI, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Celgene, Eisai, Janssen, Kyowa Kirin, LEO, Lilly, Maruho, Mitsubishi Tanabe 
Pharma, Novartis, Pfizer, Sun Pharma, Taiho, Torii, and UCB. Dr Beissert has 
received honoraria as an advisory board member and/or speaker for AbbVie, 
Actelion, Almirall, Amgen, Bristol Myers Squibb, Celgene, Galderma, GSK, 
Janssen, LEO, Lilly, Menlo Therapeutics, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Sandoz, 
Sanofi, and UCB. Dr Gooderham is or has been an investigator, adviser, and/or 
speaker for AbbVie, Akros, Amgen, AnaptysBio, Arcutis, Aristea, Bausch, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Celgene, Coherus BioSciences, 
Dermira, Dermavant, Galderma, GlaxoSmithKline, Janssen, Kyowa Kirin, LEO, Lilly, 
Medimmune, Merck, Meiji, Moonlake, Nimbus, Novartis, Pfizer, Regeneron, 
Reistone, Roche, Sanofi Genzyme, Sun Pharma, UCB, and Ventyx. Dr Amin is a 
consultant and speaker for AbbVie, Amgen, Janssen, Lilly, Pfizer, Sanofi 
Genzyme, and UCB. Ms Liu, Dr Wu, Dr Azam, Dr Stakias, Dr Espaillat, Dr Sinvhal, 
Dr Soliman, Dr Pang, and Dr Chen are full-time employees of AbbVie Inc., and may 
hold AbbVie stock, stock options, and/or patents. Dr Lebwohl is an employee of 
Mount Sinai and receives research funds from AbbVie, Amgen, Arcutis, Avotres, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Cara Therapeutics, Dermavant Sciences, Eli Lilly, Incyte, 
Janssen Research & Development LLC, Ortho Dermatologics, Regeneron, and UCB 
Inc., and is a consultant for Aditum Bio, Almirall, AltruBio Inc., AnaptysBio, 
Arcutis Inc., Aristea Therapeutics, Avotres Therapeutics, Brickell Biotech, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Cara Therapeutics, Castle 
Biosciences, Celltrion, Corevitas, Dermavant Sciences, Dr. Reddy, EPI, Evommune 
Inc., Facilitation of International Dermatology Education, Forte Biosciences, 
Foundation for Research and Education in Dermatology, Helsinn, Hexima Ltd., 
Incyte, LEO, Meiji Seika Pharma, Mindera, Pfizer, Seanergy, Strata, Trevi, and 
Verrica.


387. Heart. 2023 Oct 26;109(22):1698-1705. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2022-322300.

Cost-effectiveness of ultra-low-dose quadruple combination therapy for high 
blood pressure.

Atkins ER(1), Chye A(2), Lung T(2)(3), Nolde JM(4), Billot L(2), Burke M(5), 
Chalmers J(2), Figtree GA(6)(7), Hay P(8), Hillis GS(9)(10), Jansen S(9)(11), 
Marschner S(12), Neal B(2), Nelson MR(13), Reid CM(14), Usherwood T(2)(12), 
Schlaich M(4)(7)(15), Chow CK(2)(12), Rodgers A(2).

Author information:
(1)The George Institute for Global Health, UNSW, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia eatkins@georgeinstitute.org.au.
(2)The George Institute for Global Health, UNSW, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(3)School of Public Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(4)Dobney Hypertension Centre, The University of Western Australia, Perth, 
Western Australia, Australia.
(5)Kildare Road Medical Centre, Blacktown, New South Wales, Australia.
(6)Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of Sydney Northern Clinical 
School, St Leonards, New South Wales, Australia.
(7)Kolling Institute of Medical Research, St Leonards, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(8)Castle Hill Medical Centre, Castle Hill, New South Wales, Australia.
(9)UWA Medical School, The University of Western Australia, Perth, Western 
Australia, Australia.
(10)Cardiology, Royal Perth Hospital, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(11)Curtin Medical School, Curtin University, Bentley, Western Australia, 
Australia.
(12)Westmead Applied Research Centre, The University of Sydney, Westmead, New 
South Wales, Australia.
(13)Discipline of General Practice, Menzies Research Institute Tasmania, Hobart, 
Tasmania, Australia.
(14)Centre for Clinical Research and Education, Curtin University, Perth, 
Western Australia, Australia.
(15)Nephrology, Royal Perth Hospital, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.

Comment in
    Heart. 2023 Oct 26;109(22):1659-1660.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of a quadpill 
containing irbesartan 37.5 mg, amlodipine 1.25 mg, indapamide 0.625 mg and 
bisoprolol 2.5 mg in comparison with irbesartan 150 mg for people with 
hypertension who are either untreated or receiving monotherapy.
METHODS: We conducted a within-trial and modelled economic evaluation of the 
Quadruple UltrA-low-dose tReaTment for hypErTension trial. The analysis was 
preplanned, and medications and health service use captured during the trial. 
The main outcomes were incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for cost 
per mm Hg systolic blood pressure (BP) reduction at 3 months, and modelled cost 
per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) over a lifetime.
RESULTS: The within-trial analysis showed no clear difference in cost per mm Hg 
BP lowering between randomised treatments at 3 months ($A10 (95% uncertainty 
interval (UI) $A -18 to $A37) per mm Hg per person) for quadpill versus 
monotherapy. The modelled cost-utility over a lifetime projected a mean 
incremental cost of $A265 (95% UI $A166 to $A357) and a mean 0.02 QALYs gained 
(95% UI 0.01 to 0.03) per person with quadpill therapy compared with 
monotherapy. Quadpill therapy was cost-effective in the base case (ICER of 
$A14 006 per QALY), and the result was sensitive to the quadpill cost in one-way 
sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Quadpill in comparison with monotherapy is comparably 
cost-effective for short-term BP lowering. In the long-term, quadpill therapy is 
likely to be cost-effective.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ANZCTRN12616001144404.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2022-322300
PMID: 37553138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The George Institute for 
Global Health (TGI) has submitted patent applications with respect to low 
fixed-dose combination products for the treatment of cardiovascular or 
cardiometabolic disease. AR and CKC are listed as inventors. AR is employed by 
TGI and seconded part-time to George Medicines (GM). George Health Enterprises 
(GHE) and its subsidiary, GM, have received investment funds to develop 
fixed-dose combination products, including combinations of blood 
pressure-lowering drugs. GHE is the social enterprise group of TGI. AR and CKC 
do not have direct financial interests in these patent applications or 
investments.


388. Mol Autism. 2023 Aug 8;14(1):29. doi: 10.1186/s13229-023-00560-7.

Knockout of Tmlhe in mice is not associated with autism spectrum disorder 
phenotypes or motor dysfunction despite low carnitine levels.

Liepinsh E(1)(2), Svalbe B(3), Stelfa G(3)(4), Grinberga S(3), Zvejniece L(3), 
Schiöth HB(5), Dambrova M(3)(6).

Author information:
(1)Latvian Institute of Organic Synthesis, Riga, Latvia. ledgars@farm.osi.lv.
(2)Riga Stradins University, Riga, Latvia. ledgars@farm.osi.lv.
(3)Latvian Institute of Organic Synthesis, Riga, Latvia.
(4)Latvia University of Life Sciences and Technologies, Jelgava, Latvia.
(5)Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(6)Riga Stradins University, Riga, Latvia.

Deletion of exon 2 of the trimethyllysine hydroxylase epsilon (TMLHE) gene was 
identified in probands with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). TMLHE encodes the 
first enzyme in carnitine biosynthesis, N6-trimethyllysine dioxygenase (TMLD). 
Researchers have suggested that carnitine depletion could be important for the 
development of ASD and cognitive, locomotor and social dysfunctions, but 
previous findings have been inconclusive regarding the specific role of 
endogenous carnitine. We developed a mouse knockout model with constitutive TMLD 
enzyme inactivation that exhibited a significant decrease in the carnitine by 
more than 90% compared to wild-type (WT) mice. However, we did not observe any 
significant social, cognitive, or repetitive-behavior changes associated with 
ASD in the knockout mice; muscle strength and coordination were also not 
affected. In addition, the life expectancy of knockout mice was similar to that 
of WT mice. In conclusion, knockout of Tmlh in mice does not induce an ASD 
phenotype or motor dysfunction despite extremely low carnitine and 
gamma-butyrobetaine concentrations. Moreover, inactivation of TMLD does not 
induce a phenotype similar to previously described primary carnitine deficiency; 
indeed, our results showed that low levels of carnitine sustained adequate 
energy production, muscle function and social behavior in mice.

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s13229-023-00560-7
PMCID: PMC10410785
PMID: 37553674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


389. Med Sci Monit. 2023 Aug 9;29:e939169. doi: 10.12659/MSM.939169.

Efficiency and Effectiveness of Patient Care Provided by Physicians in Rural and 
Urban Areas in Poland.

Prusaczyk A(1), Gujski M(2), Onyśków W(3), Żuk P(4), Warsz L(1), Nitsch-Osuch 
A(5), Oberska J(5), Bogdan M(5).

Author information:
(1)Medical and Diagnostic Center, Siedlce, Poland.
(2)Department of Public Health, Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Foundation for the Development of Social Research, Cracow, Poland.
(4)Medical and Diagnostic Centre, Siedlce, Poland.
(5)Department of Social Medicine and Public Health, Medical University of 
Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.

BACKGROUND The health sector in Poland is currently facing challenges such as 
limited financial resources, poor infrastructure, and insufficient human 
resources. To address these issues, increasing cost-effectiveness at the 
individual physician level has become essential. This study aimed to evaluate 
the efficiency and effectiveness of patient care at the level of individual 
primary health care physicians and to compare the performance of physicians 
working in urban and rural areas. MATERIAL AND METHODS Thirteen original 
effectiveness indicators were developed based on a literature review, expert 
consultations, and a pilot study at the Medical and Diagnostic Center in 
Siedlce. The indicators were used to evaluate the effectiveness of physicians 
and compare physicians' characteristics working in rural and urban areas. The 
study extracted data on physicians' characteristics and used the indicators to 
evaluate their effectiveness. RESULTS Physicians working in rural areas treated 
more patients due to staff shortages. However, physicians working in urban areas 
demonstrated greater effectiveness in performing routine and advanced health 
checks and mammograms. Despite this advantage, the average life expectancy of 
patients was higher among patients of physicians working in rural areas. 
CONCLUSIONS Five indicators developed in the study formed a scale, which is a 
step toward developing a uniform effectiveness indicator. Further research on 
consistently measuring effectiveness could significantly impact the development 
of sociometric research methodology. This study highlights the differences in 
efficiency and effectiveness of physicians working in rural vs urban areas and 
underscores the need for healthcare policymakers to consider these differences 
in addressing healthcare resource allocation.

DOI: 10.12659/MSM.939169
PMCID: PMC10424557
PMID: 37553822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared


390. Front Oncol. 2023 Jul 24;13:1161738. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1161738.
eCollection  2023.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of MRI, CE-CT and 18F-FDG PET/CT for detecting 
colorectal liver metastases eligible for hepatic resection.

Schnitzer ML(1), von Münchhausen N(2), Biechele G(1), Runtemund J(1), Grawe 
F(1), Geyer T(1), Kaiser CG(2), Haag F(2), Rübenthaler J(1), Froelich MF(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University Hospital Munich, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich, Munich, Germany.
(2)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, University Medical Centre 
Mannheim, Medical Faculty Mannheim-University of Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a serious challenge for the health 
system. In 2022 CRC represented 8% of cancer diagnoses in the United States. 30% 
of patients already show metastases at the initial tumor staging. The majority 
of these metastases are sited in the liver. According to their extension and the 
status of the tumor colorectal liver metastases can be treated in several ways, 
with hepatic resection being the gold-standard. Contrast-enhanced computed 
tomography (CE-CT), positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) 
and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can be used for evaluation of resectability 
of these liver metastases. The aim of this study is to assess the most economic 
imaging modality for detecting liver metastases eligible for hepatic resection 
by analyzing their cost-effectiveness.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In our study, a Markov state transition model was built 
to calculate the quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and overall costs for each 
diagnostic strategy in accord with the stated input values obtained from 
scientific research. Further, probabilistic sensitivity analyses by means of 
Monte Carlo simulations were performed to consider possible model uncertainties. 
For evaluation of the cost-effectiveness on an economic threshold, the 
Willingness-to-pay (WTP) was set at $ 100,000. The applied values and the 
calculated results are based on the U.S. healthcare system.
RESULTS: CE-CT led to overall costs of $ 42,874.02 and 8.47 QALYs, whereas MRI 
led to $ 40,863.65 and 8.50 QALYs. PET/CT resulted in overall costs of $ 
43,216.74 and 8.48 QALYs. Therefore, MRI was determined to be the dominant 
strategy in the model. According to the performed sensitivity analyses, MRI 
remained cost-effective over a wide range of WTPs.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, according to our analysis, MRI is the dominant 
strategy for detecting hepatic metastases eligible for hepatic resection in 
colorectal cancer.

Copyright © 2023 Schnitzer, von Münchhausen, Biechele, Runtemund, Grawe, Geyer, 
Kaiser, Haag, Rübenthaler and Froelich.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1161738
PMCID: PMC10405934
PMID: 37554160

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


391. Front Cardiovasc Med. 2023 Jul 24;10:1223841. doi:
10.3389/fcvm.2023.1223841.  eCollection 2023.

Endovascular revascularization vs. open surgical revascularization for patients 
with lower extremity artery disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Shu H(#)(1), Xiong X(#)(2), Chen X(#)(3), Sun X(4), Zhang R(5), Wang R(6)(7)(8), 
Huang Q(8), Zhu J(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)The Second Clinical Medical School, Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.
(2)Department of Vascular Surgery, The First Hospital of Nanchang, Nanchang, 
China.
(3)Department of Nursing, Renji Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School 
of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of General Surgery (Vascular Surgery), The Affiliated Hospital of 
Southwest Medical University, Luzhou, China.
(5)Department of Vascular Surgery, Fengcheng Hospital, Shanghai, China.
(6)Department of Vascular Surgery, The Affiliated Chuzhou Hospital of Anhui 
Medical University, Anhui, China.
(7)Department of Vascular Surgery, The First People's Hospital of Chuzhou, 
Anhui, China.
(8)Department of Vascular Surgery, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai 
Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(9)Department of Vascular Surgery, Lu'an Hospital of Anhui Medical University, 
Anhui, China.
(10)Department of Vascular Surgery, Lu'an People's Hospital of Anhui Province, 
Anhui, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Currently, the main treatment for lower extremity artery disease 
(LEAD) is revascularization, including endovascular revascularization (EVR) and 
open surgical revascularization (OSR), but the specific revascularization 
strategy for LEAD is controversial. This review provided the comprehensive and 
recent evidence for the treatment of LEAD.
METHODS: Medline, Embase, and the Cochrane Library databases were searched for 
relevant articles. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and cohort studies 
comparing the short-term or long-term outcomes between EVR and OSR of LEAD were 
identified. Short-term outcomes were 30-day mortality, major amputation, wound 
complication, major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs), and length of 
hospital stay (LOS), while long-term outcomes included overall survival (OS), 
amputation-free survival (AFS), freedom from re-intervention (FFR), primary 
patency (PP), and secondary patency (SP).
RESULTS: 11 RCTs and 105 cohorts involving 750,134 patients were included in 
this analysis. For the pooled results of cohort studies, EVR markedly decreased 
the risk of 30-day mortality, wound complication, MACEs, LOS, but increased the 
risk of OS, FFR, PP, and SP. For the pooled outcomes of RCTs, EVR was associated 
with obviously lower 30-day mortality, less wound complication and shorter LOS, 
but higher risk of PP, and SP. However, both RCTs and cohorts did not show 
obvious difference in 30-day major amputation and AFS.
CONCLUSIONS: Both the pooled results of cohorts and RCTs indicated that EVR was 
associated with a lower short-term risk for LEAD, while OSR was accompanied by a 
substantially lower long-term risk. Therefore, the life expectancy of LEAD 
should be strictly considered when choosing the revascularization modality. As 
the current findings mainly based on data of retrospective cohort studies, 
additional high-quality studies are essential to substantiate these results.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: 
https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/#recordDetails, identifier CRD42022317239.

© 2023 Shu, Xiong, Chen, Sun, Zhang, Wang, Huang and Zhu.

DOI: 10.3389/fcvm.2023.1223841
PMCID: PMC10405177
PMID: 37554365

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The reviewer JQ declared a 
shared affiliation with the author(s) RW and QH to the handling editor at the 
time of review.


392. Front Neurol. 2023 Jul 24;14:1201025. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2023.1201025. 
eCollection 2023.

Incidence and prevalence of traumatic spinal cord injury in Canada using health 
administrative data.

Thorogood NP(1), Noonan VK(1), Chen X(1), Fallah N(1)(2), Humphreys S(1), Dea 
N(3), Kwon BK(3)(4), Dvorak MF(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Praxis Spinal Cord Institute, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, 
Canada.
(3)Combined Neurosurgery and Orthopaedic Spine Program, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(4)International Collaboration on Repair Discoveries (ICORD), University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: Incidence and prevalence data are needed for the planning, 
funding, delivery and evaluation of injury prevention and health care programs. 
The objective of this study was to estimate the Canadian traumatic spinal cord 
injury (TSCI) incidence, prevalence and trends over time using national-level 
health administrative data.
METHODS: ICD-10 CA codes were used to identify the cases for the hospital 
admission and discharge incidence rates of TSCI in Canada from 2005 to 2016. 
Provincial estimates were calculated using the location of the admitting 
facility. Age and sex-specific incidence rates were set to the 2015/2016 rates 
for the 2017 to 2019 estimates. Annual incidence rates were used as input for 
the prevalence model that applied annual survivorship rates derived from life 
expectancy data.
RESULTS: For 2019, it was estimated that there were 1,199 cases (32.0 per 
million) of TSCI admitted to hospitals, with 123 (10% of admissions) in-hospital 
deaths and 1,076 people with TSCI (28.7 per million) were discharged in Canada. 
The estimated number of people living with TSCI was 30,239 (804/million); 15,533 
(52%) with paraplegia and 14,706 (48%) with tetraplegia. Trends included an 
increase in the number of people injured each year from 874 to 1,199 incident 
cases (37%), an older average age at injury rising from 46.6 years to 54.3 years 
and a larger proportion over the age of 65 changing from 22 to 38%, during the 
15-year time frame.
CONCLUSION: This study provides a standard method for calculating the incidence 
and prevalence of TSCI in Canada using national-level health administrative 
data. The estimates are conservative based on the limitations of the data but 
represent a large Canadian sample over 15 years, which highlight national 
trends. An increasing number of TSCI cases among the elderly population due to 
falls reported in this study can inform health care planning, prevention 
strategies, and future research.

Copyright © 2023 Thorogood, Noonan, Chen, Fallah, Humphreys, Dea, Kwon and 
Dvorak.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2023.1201025
PMCID: PMC10406385
PMID: 37554392

Conflict of interest statement: NT, VN, XC, NF, and SH were employed by Praxis 
Spinal Cord Institute. The remaining authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


393. Front Med (Lausanne). 2023 Jul 24;10:1200007. doi:
10.3389/fmed.2023.1200007.  eCollection 2023.

Ultra-old patients and long-term survival after hip fracture: a real-world 
assessment.

Tiso D(1)(2), Pizzonia M(1)(2), Giannotti C(1)(2), Tagliafico L(1)(2), Signori 
A(3), Nencioni A(1)(2), Monacelli F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Geriatrics Clinic, Department of Internal Medicine and Medical Specialties 
(DIMI), University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy.
(2)IRCCS Policlinico San Martino Hospital, Genoa, Italy.
(3)DISSAL, Department of Health Science, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy.

It's still undetermined whether ultra-old persons, aged >90 years, are able to 
tolerate hip fracture surgical stress while maintaining their functional 
reserve, and even fewer studies have investigated the role of frailty on the 
risk of mortality, disability, or morbidity in the ultra-old. This is a 
prospective study performed at the Orthogeriatrics Ward of the IRCCS Policlinico 
San Martino (Genoa, Italy) that consecutively enrolled 205 older adult patients 
with hip fractures due to low-energy trauma. Namely, 85 patients were 
categorized as ultra-old, and 120 patients (64-89 years) were the younger 
control group. Demographic data, perioperative data, and rehabilitation data 
were collected. Here we estimated the overall survival and related predictive 
variables in hospitalized ultra-old hip fracture patients based on a 
methodologically robust frailty stratification (Rockwood 40-item tool). The 
median OS for the ultra-old was 18.7 months, which also showed a doubled 1-year 
mortality risk. Our findings assessed that frailty in the presence of 
malnutrition, delayed verticalization, and post-operative respiratory 
complications was associated with a two-fold increase in the risk of long-term 
mortality, irrespective of advanced chronological age in the ultra-old. Although 
the higher mortality rate in these patients may be related to a priori lower 
life expectancy, chronological age alone is an insufficient prognostic 
determinant for unfavorable outcomes. Our multicomponent prognostic score can be 
used in combination to stratify frailty in the ultra-old for timely screening 
and to deliver goals of care discussions prior to surgery, potentially targeting 
new orthogeriatric pathways for the improvement of appropriateness and treatment 
intensity.

Copyright © 2023 Tiso, Pizzonia, Giannotti, Tagliafico, Signori, Nencioni and 
Monacelli.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2023.1200007
PMCID: PMC10406208
PMID: 37554502

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


394. SSM Popul Health. 2023 Jul 7;23:101461. doi: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2023.101461. 
eCollection 2023 Sep.

Age and cause-of-death contributions to educational inequalities in life 
expectancy and lifespan variation in a low-mortality country: A cross-sectional 
study of 1.67 million deaths in Spain (2016-19).

Trias-Llimós S(1), Spijker JJA(1), Blanes A(1), Permanyer I(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre d'Estudis Demogràfics, Centres de Recerca de Catalunya (CERCA), Carrer 
de Ca n'Altayó, Edifici E2, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 08193 Bellaterra, 
Spain.
(2)ICREA, Passeig Lluís Companys 23, 08010, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: We aim to assess the age- and cause-specific contributions to 
differences in life expectancy and lifespan variation between the high- and 
