PMCID: PMC10669760
PMID: 37752000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Future Oncol. 2023 Sep;19(27):1841-1851. doi: 10.2217/fon-2023-0256. Epub
2023  Sep 27.

A phase II study of neoadjuvant liposomal irinotecan with 5-FU and oxaliplatin 
(NALIRIFOX) in pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

Singhal R(1), Rogers SC(2), Lee JH(3), Ramnaraign B(2), Sahin I(2), Fabregas 
JC(4), Thomas RM(5), Hughes SJ(5), Nassour I(5), Hitchcock K(6), Russell K(6), 
Kayaleh O(7), Turk A(8), Zlotecki R(9), DeRemer DL(10), George TJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology & Oncology, University of 
Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.
(4)Memorial Cancer Institute, Florida Atlantic University, Hollywood, FL, USA.
(5)Department of Surgery, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.
(6)Tallahassee Memorial Hospital, Tallahassee, FL, USA.
(7)Orlando Health Cancer Institute, Orlando, FL, USA.
(8)Indiana University Simon Comprehensive Cancer Center, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(9)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, 
USA.
(10)College of Pharmacy, University of Florida, Department of Pharmacotherapy & 
Translational Research, Gainesville, FL, USA.

For patients with localized pancreatic cancer with minimal vascular involvement, 
optimal survivability requires a multidisciplinary approach of surgical 
resection and systemic chemotherapy. FOLFIRINOX is a combination chemotherapy 
regimen that offers promising results in the perioperative and metastatic 
settings; however, it can cause significant adverse effects. Such toxicity can 
negatively impact some patients, resulting in chemotherapy discontinuation or 
surgical unsuitability. In an effort to reduce toxicities and optimize outcomes, 
this investigation explores the safety and feasibility of substituting liposomal 
irinotecan (nal-IRI) for nonliposomal irinotecan to improve tumor drug delivery 
and potentially reduce toxicity. This regimen, NALIRIFOX, has the potential to 
be both safer and more effective when administered in the preoperative setting.

Plain Language Summary: For patients with pancreatic cancer with little to no 
cancer near the blood vessels, the best life expectancy usually requires surgery 
and chemotherapy. FOLFIRINOX is a chemotherapy medicine that offers promising 
results for both patients getting surgery and for patients with widespread 
disease. However, it can cause harmful side effects. The side effects can be so 
bad that the chemotherapy has to be stopped or that surgery is no longer 
possible. In order to reduce the harmful side effects and improve outcomes, this 
investigation looks into the safety and practicality of using a different 
version of one of the medicines. The different version hopes to improve drug 
delivery and reduce harmful side effects. This regimen, NALIRIFOX, can be safer 
and more effective in patients awaiting surgery. Clinical Trial Registration: 
UF-STO-PANC-004 (NCT03483038) (ClinicalTrials.gov).

DOI: 10.2217/fon-2023-0256
PMCID: PMC10594143
PMID: 37753702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no other relevant affiliations 
or financial involvement with any organization or entity with a financial 
interest in or financial conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed 
in the manuscript apart from those disclosed.


912. Behav Sci (Basel). 2023 Aug 31;13(9):728. doi: 10.3390/bs13090728.

Effects of Robot Animacy and Emotional Expressions on Perspective-Taking 
Abilities: A Comparative Study across Age Groups.

Hu X(1), Tong S(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China.
(2)Department of Psychology, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.

The global population is inevitably aging due to increased life expectancy and 
declining birth rates, leading to an amplified demand for innovative social and 
healthcare services. One promising avenue is the introduction of companion 
robots. These robots are designed to provide physical assistance as well as 
emotional support and companionship, necessitating effective human-robot 
interaction (HRI). This study explores the role of cognitive empathy within HRI, 
focusing on the influence of robot facial animacy and emotional expressions on 
perspective-taking abilities-a key aspect of cognitive empathy-across different 
age groups. To this end, a director task involving 60 participants (30 young and 
30 older adults) with varying degrees of robot facial animacy (0%, 50%, 100%) 
and emotional expressions (happy, neutral) was conducted. The results revealed 
that older adults displayed enhanced perspective-taking with higher animacy 
faces. Interestingly, while happiness on high-animacy faces improved 
perspective-taking, the same expression on low-animacy faces reduced it. These 
findings highlight the importance of considering facial animacy and emotional 
expressions in designing companion robots for older adults to optimize user 
engagement and acceptance. The study's implications are pertinent to the design 
and development of socially effective service robots, particularly for the aging 
population.

DOI: 10.3390/bs13090728
PMCID: PMC10525100
PMID: 37754006

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


913. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Sep 12;20(18):6746. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20186746.

Muscular Adaptations to Concurrent Resistance Training and High-Intensity 
Interval Training in Adults with Type 2 Diabetes: A Pilot Study.

Orlando G(1), Pugh J(2)(3), Faulkner S(3)(4), Balducci S(5)(6), Sacchetti M(7), 
Pugliese G(5), Bazzucchi I(7), Haxhi J(5), Martinez-Valdes E(8), Falla D(8), 
Manolopoulos K(9), Nimmo MA(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Research Centre for Musculoskeletal Science & Sports Medicine, Department of 
Life Sciences, Faculty of Science and Engineering, Manchester Metropolitan 
University, Manchester M15GD, UK.
(2)College of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Birmingham, 
Birmingham B152TT, UK.
(3)Centre for Sport and Exercise Medicine, School of Sport, Exercise and Health 
Sciences, Loughborough University, Loughborough LE113TU, UK.
(4)Department of Engineering, School of Science and Technology, Nottingham Trent 
University, Nottingham NG14FQ, UK.
(5)Diabetes Unit, Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, "La Sapienza" 
University, Sant' Andrea University Hospital, 00185 Rome, Italy.
(6)Metabolic Fitness Association, 00015 Monterotondo, Italy.
(7)Department of Human Movement and Sport Sciences, University of Rome "Foro 
Italico", 00135 Rome, Italy.
(8)School of Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Sciences, College of Life and 
Environmental Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham B152TT, UK.
(9)Institute of Metabolism and Systems Research, College of Medical and Dental 
Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham B152TT, UK.

This pilot study aimed to compare the effects of eight weeks of concurrent 
resistance training (RT) and high-intensity interval training (HIIT) vs. RT 
alone on muscle performance, mass and quality in adults with type 2 diabetes 
(T2DM). Twelve T2DM adults were randomly allocated to the RT + HIIT (n = 5) or 
RT (n = 7) group. Before and after training, maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max), 
muscle strength and power were evaluated by calorimetry, dynamometry and 
one-repetition maximum (1RM) test. Quadriceps muscle volume was determined by 
MRI, and muscle quality was estimated. After RT, VO2max (+12%), knee muscle 
power (+20%), quadriceps muscle volume (+5.9%) and quality (leg extension, 
+65.4%; leg step-up, +223%) and 1RM at leg extension (+66.4%), leg step-up 
(+267%), lat pulldown (+60.9%) and chest press (+61.2%) significantly increased. 
The RT + HIIT group improved on VO2max (+27%), muscle volume (+6%), muscle power 
(+9%) and 1RM at lat pulldown (+47%). No other differences were detected. Among 
groups, changes in muscle quality at leg step-up and leg extension and VO2max 
were significantly different. The combination of RT and HIIT effectively 
improves muscle function and size and increases cardiorespiratory fitness in 
adults with T2DM. However, HIIT combined with RT may interfere with the 
development of muscle quality.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20186746
PMCID: PMC10530856
PMID: 37754606

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest, 
financial or otherwise.


914. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Sep 19;20(18):6782. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20186782.

Exploration of the Relationships between Men's Healthy Life Expectancy in Japan 
and Regional Variables by Integrating Statistical Learning Methods.

Sato F(1), Nakamura K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health Entrepreneurship, Graduate School of Medical and 
Dental Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima Bunkyo-ku, 
Tokyo 113-8519, Japan.

A quantitative understanding of the relationship between comprehensive health 
levels, such as healthy life expectancy and their related factors, through a 
highly explanatory model is important in both health research and health policy 
making. In this study, we developed a regression model that combines multiple 
linear regression and a random forest model, exploring the relationship between 
men's healthy life expectancy in Japan and regional variables from open sources 
at the city level as an illustrative case. Optimization of node-splitting in 
each decision tree was based on the total mean-squared error of multiple 
regression models in binary-split child nodes. Variations of standardized 
partial regression coefficients for each city were obtained as the ensemble of 
multiple trees and visualized on scatter plots. By considering them, interaction 
terms with piecewise linear functions were exploratorily introduced into a final 
multiple regression model. The plots showed that the relationship between the 
healthy life expectancy and the explanatory variables could differ depending on 
the cities' characteristics. The procedure implemented here was suggested as a 
useful exploratory method for flexibly implementing interactions in multiple 
regression models while maintaining interpretability.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20186782
PMCID: PMC10530847
PMID: 37754641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


915. J Imaging. 2023 Aug 23;9(9):169. doi: 10.3390/jimaging9090169.

An Innovative Faster R-CNN-Based Framework for Breast Cancer Detection in MRI.

Raimundo JNC(1), Fontes JPP(2), Gonzaga Mendes Magalhães L(2), Guevara Lopez 
MA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Politécnico de Setúbal, Escola Superior de Tecnologia de Setúbal, 
2914-508 Setúbal, Portugal.
(2)Centro ALGORITMI, Universidade do Minho, Campus de Azurém, 4800-058 
Guimarães, Portugal.

Replacing lung cancer as the most commonly diagnosed cancer globally, breast 
cancer (BC) today accounts for 1 in 8 cancer diagnoses and a total of 2.3 
million new cases in both sexes combined. An estimated 685,000 women died from 
BC in 2020, corresponding to 16% or 1 in every 6 cancer deaths in women. BC 
represents a quarter of a total of cancer cases in females and by far the most 
commonly diagnosed cancer in women in 2020. However, when detected in the early 
stages of the disease, treatment methods have proven to be very effective in 
increasing life expectancy and, in many cases, patients fully recover. Several 
medical imaging modalities, such as X-rays Mammography (MG), Ultrasound (US), 
Computer Tomography (CT), Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), and Digital 
Tomosynthesis (DT) have been explored to support radiologists/physicians in 
clinical decision-making workflows for the detection and diagnosis of BC. In 
this work, we propose a novel Faster R-CNN-based framework to automate the 
detection of BC pathological Lesions in MRI. As a main contribution, we have 
developed and experimentally (statistically) validated an innovative method 
improving the "breast MRI preprocessing phase" to select the patient's slices 
(images) and associated bounding boxes representing pathological lesions. In 
this way, it is possible to create a more robust training (benchmarking) dataset 
to feed Deep Learning (DL) models, reducing the computation time and the 
dimension of the dataset, and more importantly, to identify with high accuracy 
the specific regions (bounding boxes) for each of the patient's images, in which 
a possible pathological lesion (tumor) has been identified. As a result, in an 
experimental setting using a fully annotated dataset (released to the public 
domain) comprising a total of 922 MRI-based BC patient cases, we have achieved, 
as the most accurate trained model, an accuracy rate of 97.83%, and 
subsequently, applying a ten-fold cross-validation method, a mean accuracy on 
the trained models of 94.46% and an associated standard deviation of 2.43%.

DOI: 10.3390/jimaging9090169
PMCID: PMC10532017
PMID: 37754933

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


916. Pathophysiology. 2023 Sep 1;30(3):377-388. doi:
10.3390/pathophysiology30030029.

Acromegaly: Pathophysiological Considerations and Treatment Options Including 
the Evolving Role of Oral Somatostatin Analogs.

Daniel CP(1), Wagner MJ(1), Borne GE(1), Plaisance CJ(1), Ahmadzadeh S(2), 
Aquino A(2), Shekoohi S(2), Kaye AM(3), Cornett EM(2), Kaye AD(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center at 
Shreveport, 1501 Kings Highway, Shreveport, LA 71103, USA.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Louisiana State University Health Sciences 
Center at Shreveport, 1501 Kings Highway, Shreveport, LA 71103, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Thomas J. Long School of Pharmacy and Health 
Sciences, University of the Pacific, Stockton, CA 95211, USA.
(4)Departments of Anesthesiology and Pharmacology, Toxicology, and 
Neurosciences, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center at Shreveport, 
1501 Kings Highway, Shreveport, LA 71103, USA.

Acromegaly is a condition most commonly diagnosed in the fifth decade of life 
and has numerous treatment options. In this regard, Mycapssa® is the first 
FDA-approved oral octreotide capsule for treating acromegaly, combining the 
efficacy of the somatostatin receptor ligand, octreotide, with the ease of a 
twice-daily oral capsule. Where surgical treatment is not an option, 
somatostatin analogs, including octreotide, are the first line of medical 
treatment for acromegaly, requiring regular subcutaneous or intramuscular 
injections administered by a patient's healthcare provider. Octreotide capsules 
(Mycapssa®) provide an alternative to these somatostatin receptor ligand 
injections by combining octreotide with other excipients to produce a transient 
permeability enhancer technology that improves paracellular transport of 
octreotide across the gastrointestinal wall into the small intestine. Across 
multiple trials, including open-label (CH-ACM-01), double-blind 
placebo-controlled (CHIASMA OPTIMAL), and open-label extension of the trial 
period (CHIASMA OPTIMAL OLE), Mycapssa® octreotide capsules maintained a 
consistent biochemical normalization of IGF-1 and GH levels, safety profiles 
similar to injected somatostatin receptor ligands, and patient preference to 
continued treatment with octreotide capsules. While clinical trial data supports 
the use of octreotide capsules (Mycapssa®) in the pharmacological management of 
GH and IGF-1 levels, very little data exist regarding the drug's efficacy, 
tolerability, and use in female or pediatric-specific populations. A better 
understanding of the efficacy, application, and role of oral octreotide capsules 
in the long-term medical management of acromegaly in a diversity of populations 
is imperative to best determine the risks/benefits for the clinician.

DOI: 10.3390/pathophysiology30030029
PMCID: PMC10537411
PMID: 37755395

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


917. Sports (Basel). 2023 Sep 7;11(9):177. doi: 10.3390/sports11090177.

Short-Term L-Citrulline Supplementation Does Not Affect Blood Pressure, Pulse 
Wave Reflection, or Arterial Stiffness at Rest and during Isometric Exercise in 
Older Males.

Tryfonos A(1)(2), Christodoulou F(1), Pamboris GM(1), Christodoulides S(1)(3), 
Theodorou AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, School of Sciences, European University Cyprus, 
Nicosia 1516, Cyprus.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, 171 77 Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(3)School of Medicine, European University Cyprus, Nicosia 1516, Cyprus.

Hypertension and arterial stiffness are significant factors contributing to 
cardiovascular disease. L-citrulline, a nitric oxide precursor, has been 
proposed as a nutritional, non-pharmacological blood pressure-lowering 
intervention. This study aimed to investigate the impact of L-citrulline on 
central and peripheral blood pressure, pulse wave reflection, and central 
arterial stiffness at rest and during an isometric knee extension exercise 
protocol. Twelve older males received 6 g of L-citrulline or a placebo for six 
days using a double-blind crossover design. Blood hemodynamics parameters (i.e., 
aortic and brachial systolic and diastolic blood pressure, mean arterial 
pressure, pulse pressure, heart rate), pulse wave reflection (i.e., augmented 
pressure, augmentation index, forward/backward wave pressure), and arterial 
stiffness (i.e., carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity) were measured at baseline, 
post-supplementation, and during isometric exercise. No significant effects of 
L-citrulline supplementation were observed at rest or during exercise on blood 
pressure, pulse wave reflection, or arterial stiffness. Both central and 
peripheral blood pressure were increased during the exercise, which is 
consistent with isometric contractions. The results of the present study do not 
support any blood pressure-lowering effect of short-term L-citrulline at rest or 
during low-intensity isometric exercise compared to the pre-exercise values in 
older males.

DOI: 10.3390/sports11090177
PMCID: PMC10535063
PMID: 37755854

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


918. Hepatol Commun. 2023 Sep 27;7(10):e0279. doi: 10.1097/HC9.0000000000000279. 
eCollection 2023 Oct 1.

Time trends in mortality and life expectancy in 22,658 patients hospitalized 
with alcohol-associated cirrhosis: A nationwide cohort study.

Wester A(1), Shang Y(1), Stål P(1)(2), Hagström H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Huddinge, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Department of Upper GI, Division of Hepatology, Karolinska University 
Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: The management of alcohol-associated cirrhosis has improved in the 
last decades, but whether the prognosis has changed over time is uncertain. We 
aimed to assess time trends in mortality and life expectancy in patients 
hospitalized with alcohol-associated cirrhosis.
METHODS: In this population-based cohort study, we used the Swedish national 
population and health registers to identify all patients with a first episode of 
in-hospital alcohol-associated cirrhosis from 1969 to 2019 (n = 22,658). Time 
trends in 1-year mortality were assessed with multivariable Cox regression. A 
flexible parametric model was fitted to evaluate loss in life expectancy.
RESULTS: Crude mortality was similar in the 2010s and 1980s (unadjusted HR = 
1.00, 95% CI = 0.93-1.08, ptrend = 0.767). However, when adjusting for baseline 
characteristics, mortality was lower in the 2010s than in the 1980s (adjusted HR 
= 0.74, 95% CI = 0.68-0.80), including both liver- and nonliver-related 
mortalities. These results were consistent in men but not in women, where only 
nonliver mortality had decreased. The average loss in life expectancy for 
patients with alcohol-associated cirrhosis compared with the general population 
was similar throughout the study period (in the 2010s: 14.3 y shorter (95% CI = 
13.7-14.9) in men and 15.8 years shorter (95% CI = 14.9-16.7) in women).
CONCLUSION: Mortality in patients hospitalized with alcohol-associated cirrhosis 
has improved somewhat when accounting for baseline characteristics, but the loss 
in life expectancy remains substantial. This underscores the need for new 
therapeutic options and health policy interventions to further improve the 
dismal prognosis and life expectancy of patients with alcohol-associated 
cirrhosis.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on 
behalf of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1097/HC9.0000000000000279
PMCID: PMC10531483
PMID: 37756120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Hannes Hagström received institutional grants 
from Astra Zeneca, EchoSens, Gilead, Intercept, MSD, and Pfizer, all outside the 
current study. Per Stål is on the speakers’ bureau for Albireo, Eisai, Roche, 
and MSD. The remaining authors have no conflicts to report.


919. PLoS One. 2023 Sep 27;18(9):e0290506. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0290506. 
eCollection 2023.

A lack of financial planning predicts increased mortality risk: Evidence from 
cohort studies in the United Kingdom and United States.

Gladstone JJ(1), Hundtofte CS(2).

Author information:
(1)Marketing Division, Leeds School of Business, University of Colorado Boulder, 
Boulder, Colorado, United States of America.
(2)Solve Finance, Nyack, New York, United States of America.

We investigate whether a lack of planning and future-orientation in financial 
behavior is associated with a higher mortality risk. Our evidence is based on 
two nationally representative cohorts of older people living in the United 
States (n = 11,478) and England (n = 11,298), where we compared individuals' 
self-reported planning horizons on spending and saving with government mortality 
records. Controlling for demographics, participants with a 1 SD shorter planning 
horizon had a 9% greater hazard of dying in the English sample (evaluated over 
10 years), and a 7% greater hazard in the US sample (over 22 years). These 
differences in mortality risk could not be explained by variation in 
respondent's life expectancy, their financial circumstances or a range of other 
observable covariates. Similar results are found for self-reported health, with 
the positive association between longer planning horizons and health strongest 
for those with fewest financial resources.

Copyright: © 2023 Gladstone, Hundtofte. This is an open access article 
distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which 
permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided 
the original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0290506
PMCID: PMC10529586
PMID: 37756292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


920. Int J Qual Health Care. 2023 Oct 18;35(4):mzad079. doi:
10.1093/intqhc/mzad079.

Burden of ischemic stroke in mainland China and Taiwan province from 1990 to 
2019: with forecast for the next 11 years.

Yu J, Liu F(1), Cheng Y(1), Wang J(1), Ma W(1), Chen C(1), Sun P(1), Shang S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Affilated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China.

Ischemic stroke is featured with high incidence, mortality, and disability. The 
aim of this study is to use Global Burden of Disease database to describe and 
compare the burden of ischemic stroke in mainland China and Taiwan province and 
to further predict the expected changes in the next 11 years using statistical 
modeling methods. Information on ischemic stroke incidence and mortality in 
China (mainland and Taiwan province) during 1990-2019 was obtained from the 
Global Burden of Disease database to analyze the effects of region, gender, and 
age on the incidence and mortality of ischemic stroke in China. The 
autoregressive integrated moving average model was used to predict the 
age-standardized incidence rate and age-standardized mortality rate of ischemic 
stroke in males and females in mainland China and Taiwan province in the next 
11 years. The period from 1990 to 2019 witnessed an overall upward trend in the 
number of incidence and deaths in mainland China and Taiwan province. In 2019, 
there were nearly 2.87 million ischemic incidence cases with stroke in mainland 
China, with more female patients than male in the age group of over 60 years. 
Among the nearly 1.03 million deaths, the death toll of men under the age of 
85 years was higher than that of women, while in Taiwan province, the number of 
incidence was 28 771, with more female patients of all ages than male. Among the 
6788 deaths, the death toll of men under the age of 80 years was higher than 
that of women. In 2019, the age group with the highest number of patients in the 
two regions was 65-69 years, while the highest number of deaths was found in 
people aged 85 years and above. As our autoregressive integrated moving average 
model predicted, the age-standardized incidence rate value of ischemic stroke is 
expected to be 163.23/100 000 persons in mainland China by 2030, which would 
continue to increase, while the age-standardized mortality rate value of 
ischemic stroke is expected to be 16.41/100 000 persons in Taiwan province by 
2030, which showed a decreasing trend. Disease burden of ischemic stroke is 
still increasing in mainland China and Taiwan province, and health resources 
should be deployed to implement effective prevention and control strategies, 
taking into account region, gender, and age.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
International Society for Quality in Health Care. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/intqhc/mzad079
PMID: 37757476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Value Health. 2023 Dec;26(12):1763-1771. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2023.08.013.
Epub  2023 Sep 25.

An Intersectional Approach to Quantifying the Impact of Geographic Remoteness 
and Health Disparities on Quality-Adjusted Life Expectancy: Application to 
Australia.

Lee P(1), Bowe SJ(2), Engel L(3), Lubetkin EI(4), Devlin N(5), Gao L(6).

Author information:
(1)Deakin Health Economics, Institute for Health Transformation, Faculty of 
Health, Deakin University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Electronic address: 
peter.lee@deakin.edu.au.
(2)Deakin Biostatistics Unit, Deakin University, Faculty of Health, Geelong, 
Victoria, Australia; Faculty of Health, School of Health, Victoria University of 
Wellington, Kelburn, Wellington, New Zealand.
(3)School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Department of Community Health and Social Medicine, CUNY School of Medicine, 
New York, NY, USA.
(5)Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, The University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(6)Deakin Health Economics, Institute for Health Transformation, Faculty of 
Health, Deakin University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: An intersectional multilevel analysis of individual heterogeneity 
and discriminatory accuracy (MAIHDA) is a novel method for exploring the 
interaction between sociodemographic characteristics that affect health 
outcomes. This study explores the interaction between geographic remoteness and 
socioeconomic status on health outcomes in Australia from an intersectional 
perspective.
METHODS: Data from a cross-sectional survey were matched with data from the 
Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Australian Institute of Health and 
Welfare. To explore the effect of health-related quality of life on life 
expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) was estimated through 
applying utility values derived from the EQ-5D-5L to life table data from the 
Australian Bureau of Statistics. The effect of geographic remoteness on QALE was 
quantified using multivariable linear regression. An intersectional MAIHDA was 
performed to explore differences in mean QALE across strata formed by 
intersections of age, sex, and Socioeconomic Indexes for Areas score.
RESULTS: Based on multivariable linear modeling, QALE declined significantly 
with increasing remoteness (inner regional, -1.0 years [undiscounted]; 
remote/very remote, -3.3 years [undiscounted]) (P < .001). In contrast, life 
expectancy was only significantly different between participants in remote/very 
remote areas and major cities (β-coefficient, -2.4; 95% CI -4.4 to -0.4; P = 
.016). No intersectional interaction effects between strata on QALE were found 
in the MAIHDA.
CONCLUSIONS: QALE has considerable value as a metric for exploring disparities 
in health outcomes. Given that no intersectional interactions were identified, 
our findings support broad interventions that target the underlying social 
determinants of health appropriately reduce disparities versus interventions 
targeting intersectional interactions.

Copyright © 2023 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2023.08.013
PMID: 37757909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author Disclosures Drs Engel, Lubetkin, and 
Devlin are members of the EuroQol Group. No other disclosures were reported.


922. Aktuelle Urol. 2023 Sep 27. doi: 10.1055/a-2099-1847. Online ahead of print.

[Acute spinal cord compression under systemic therapy - radiotherapy or 
surgery?].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Ujkic L(#)(1), Sutanto R(#)(2), Knöll P(1), Zarghooni K(3), Rosenbrock J(2), 
Walter S(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Orthopädie, Unfallchirurgie und plastisch-ästhetische Chirurgie, 
Uniklinik Köln, Köln, Germany.
(2)Klinik für Radioonkologie, Cyberknife und Strahlentherapie, Uniklinik Köln, 
Köln, Germany.
(3)Klinik für Orthopädie und Unfallchirurgie, HELIOS Klinikum Hildesheim, 
Hildesheim, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

Vertebral bodies are one of the most common metastasis sites found in advanced 
prostate cancer and have a significant impact on patients' quality of life. 
Spinal metastases frequently cause severe back pain and in some occasions can 
lead to secondary complications, with serious neurological deficits and loss of 
function. The main treatment goals include adequate pain management, controlling 
tumour growth and restoring spinal stability. Publications on the role of 
surgery - both conventional and stereotactic radiotherapy, and either as an 
individual modality or in combination - have been inconclusive. The NOMS score 
has proven to be useful in making treatment decisions. Existing data show better 
outcomes in patients with surgical therapy, both when performed in isolation and 
also combined with radiotherapy, in which some of the cohorts studied including 
patients with primary cancer other than prostate cancer. Comparative studies 
that specifically investigate the superiority of specific therapy modalities for 
metastatic prostate carcinoma are scarce. Similarly, there are limited data on 
microsurgical interventions for spinal metastases. Radiotherapy alone is crucial 
in the setting of palliation, especially for pain relief, and its effectiveness 
has been shown in many studies. The patient's life expectancy plays a crucial 
role in deciding the most appropriate treatment approach. Given the complexity 
of the patient population, a multimodal therapy approach is necessary. Current 
trends in therapy favour greater use of surgical interventions, particularly in 
the early detection of spinal metastases.

Publisher: Wirbelkörper sind eine der häufigsten Metastasenlokalisationen beim 
fortgeschrittenen Prostatakarzinom. Einerseits schränken Wirbelsäulenmetastasen 
durch begleitende Rückenschmerzen die Lebensqualität der Patienten stark ein, 
andererseits können Sekundärkomplikationen auftreten, die mit schwerwiegenden 
neurologischen Ausfallerscheinungen und Funktionsverlusten einhergehen. Neben 
der Schmerzreduktion stellen zum einen die lokale Tumorkontrolle, zum anderen 
die Wiederherstellung der spinalen Stabilität zentrale Therapieziele dar. Der 
Stellenwert der Chirurgie, der konventionellen Strahlentherapie und 
stereotaktischen Strahlentherapie, sowohl alleinstehend als auch kombiniert, 
wird vor diesem Hintergrund in der Literatur kontrovers diskutiert. Insbesondere 
der NOMS-Score erweist sich als hilfreiches Tool zur therapeutischen 
Entscheidungsfindung. Daten zeigen bessere postoperative Patientenoutcomes nach 
chirurgischer Therapie, sowohl wenn isoliert durchgeführt als auch kombiniert 
mit der Strahlentherapie, wobei ein Teil der untersuchten Patientenkollektive 
andere Primaria neben dem Prostatakarzinom miteinschließen. Vergleichsstudien, 
die speziell im Setting des metastasierten Prostatakarzinoms die Überlegenheit 
bestimmter Therapien vergleichen, sind rar. Dasselbe gilt in Bezug auf 
mikrochirurgische Eingriffe an spinalen Metastasen. Die isolierte 
Strahlentherapie nimmt insbesondere im Setting der Palliation zur 
Schmerzlinderung ihren Stellenwert ein, wobei ihre Effektivität zahlreich belegt 
ist. Therapeutisch entscheidungsführend ist die erwartete Lebensprognose der 
Patienten. Ein multimodaler Therapieansatz ist vor dem Hintergrund des komplexen 
Patientenkollektivs vonnöten, wobei aktuelle Therapietrends vor dem Hintergrund 
der Früherkennung spinaler Metastasen großzügiger eine operative Intervention 
integrieren.

Thieme. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1055/a-2099-1847
PMID: 37758040

Conflict of interest statement: Die Autorinnen/Autoren geben an, dass kein 
Interessenkonflikt besteht.


923. Eur Heart J. 2023 Nov 14;44(43):4533-4548. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehad570.

Acquired cardiovascular disease in adults with congenital heart disease.

Brida M(1)(2), De Rosa S(3), Legendre A(4)(5), Ladouceur M(5), Dos Subira L(6), 
Scognamiglio G(7), Di Mario C(8), Roos-Hesselink J(9), Goossens E(10), Diller 
G(11), Gatzoulis MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Adult Congenital Heart Centre and National Centre for Pulmonary Hypertension, 
Royal Brompton & Harefield Hospitals, Guys & St Thomas's NHS Trust and National 
Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College, Sydney Street, London SW3 6NP, UK.
(2)Department of Medical Rehabilitation, Medical Faculty, University of Rijeka, 
Croatia.
(3)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, 'Magna Graecia' University, 
Catanzaro, Italy.
(4)Congenital and Pediatric Cardiology, Adult Congenital Heart Disease Unit, 
Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou, Paris, France.
(5)Adult Congenital Heart Disease Unit, Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou, 
Assistance Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris Cité University, Paris, France.
(6)Unitat de Cardiopaties Congènites de l'Adolescent i de l'Adult (UCCAA); 
CIBERCV, European Reference Network for rare, low-prevalence, or complex 
diseases of the heart (ERN GUARD-Heart), Vall d'Hebron Hospital, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(7)Adult Congenital Heart Disease Unit, AORN dei Colli-Monaldi Hospital, Naples, 
Italy.
(8)Structural Interventional Cardiology, Department of Clinical & Experimental 
Medicine, Careggi University Hospital, Florence, Italy.
(9)Department of Cardiology, Erasmus Medical Centre, Rotterdam, Netherlands.
(10)Centre for Research and Innovation in Care, Faculty of Nursing, University 
of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(11)Department of Cardiology III-Adult Congenital and Valvular Heart Disease, 
University Hospital Muenster, Muenster, Germany.

Rates of successful surgical repair and life expectancy for patients with 
congenital heart disease have increased dramatically in recent decades. Thanks 
to advances in diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up care, an ever-increasing 
number of individuals with congenital heart disease are reaching advanced age. 
The exposure to cardiovascular risk factors during their lifetime is modifying 
the outlook and late clinical trajectory of adult congenital heart disease 
(ACHD). Their disease burden is shifting from congenital to acquired, primarily 
atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) with worrisome consequences. In 
addition, the complex background of ACHD often curbs appropriate preventive 
strategies by general practitioners or adult cardiologists. Comprehensive 
guidance for the prevention and management of acquired heart disease in ACHD 
patients is currently not available, as this topic has not been covered by the 
European Society of Cardiology (ESC) guidelines on cardiovascular disease 
prevention or the ESC guidelines for the management of ACHD. In this document, a 
state-of-the-art overview of acquired heart disease in ACHD patients and 
guidance on ASCVD prevention for both ACHD specialists and non-ACHD 
cardiologists are provided. The aim is to provide a clinical consensus statement 
to foster the development of a sustainable strategy for the prevention of ASCVD 
in a practical and simple-to-follow way in this ever-growing cardiovascular 
cohort, thus reducing their cardiovascular burden.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehad570
PMID: 37758198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Health Promot Int. 2023 Oct 1;38(5):daad116. doi: 10.1093/heapro/daad116.

The conceptualization and development of critical health literacy in children: a 
scoping review.

Jenkins CL(1), Sykes S(1), Wills J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health and Social Care, London South Bank University, 90 London 
Road, London SE1 6LN, UK.

The cognitive and social practices associated with critical health literacy, 
such as critical appraisal of health messages and participation in political 
processes to address wider determinants of health, are of lifelong benefit. 
Understanding how and where critical health literacy development can be 
supported early in the life course may improve health outcomes now and in the 
future. This scoping review focuses on how critical health literacy in children 
is conceptualized and the supportive environments available for its development. 
Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for 
Scoping Reviews guidelines are used in reporting. Evidence retrieved was 
eligible for inclusion if it contained a substantive conceptual or empirical 
study of critical health literacy in populations aged 7-11 (middle childhood). 
From the included 18 peer-reviewed and grey literature sources, schools are 
identified as the setting most associated with the development of critical 
health literacy in the target age group. However, the action-oriented dimension 
of critical health literacy is rarely supported in the school setting. The 
review concludes that further research is needed to clarify how and where to 
support children to develop critical health literacy in and outside of school 
settings.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/heapro/daad116
PMID: 37758200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Immunol Allergy Clin North Am. 2023 Nov;43(4):743-750. doi: 
10.1016/j.iac.2023.05.001. Epub 2023 Jun 20.

Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors in Non-advanced Systemic Mastocytosis.

Akin C(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
University of Michigan, 24 Frank Lloyd Wright Drive, PO Box 442, Suite H-2100, 
Ann Arbor, MI 48106-0442, USA. Electronic address: cemakin@umich.edu.

Systemic mastocytosis is associated with KIT D816V mutation in more than 90% of 
cases. Patients with non-advanced forms of mastocytosis (indolent systemic 
mastocytosis, bone marrow mastocytosis, and smoldering systenic mastocytosis) 
have a low rate of progession to advanced variants and generally have a 
comparable life expectancy to age-matched general population. Symptomatology in 
non-advanced mastocytosis is variable and is related to mast cell mediator 
release. While some patients require no or minimal symptomatic therapy with 
antimediator drugs, other may suffer from refractory symptoms impacting the 
quality of life despite being on multiple anti-mediator drugs. KIT tyrosine 
kinase inhibitors have been approved for advanced SM, and avapritinib has also 
been recently approved as the first such inhibitor for indolent systemic 
mastocytosis. Other TKIs are currently in clinical trials for patients with 
non-advanced SM who have persistent and severe symptoms despite optimized 
antimediator therapy. This article will review the current state of the science 
and available clinical data from trials of tyrosine kinase inhibitors in 
non-advanced systemic mastocytosis.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.iac.2023.05.001
PMID: 37758410


926. Sci Rep. 2023 Sep 27;13(1):16168. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-42762-2.

A psychosocial network approach studying biomedical HIV prevention uptake 
between 2017 and 2019.

Zimmermann HML(1)(2), Davidovich U(3)(4), van Bilsen WPH(5), Coyer L(3), Matser 
A(3)(5), Prins M(3)(5), van Harreveld F(4)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Public Health Service of Amsterdam, Nieuwe 
Achtergracht 100, 1018 WT, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
h.zimmermann@maastrichtuniversity.nl.
(2)Department of Work and Social Psychology, Maastricht University, Maastricht, 
The Netherlands. h.zimmermann@maastrichtuniversity.nl.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, Public Health Service of Amsterdam, Nieuwe 
Achtergracht 100, 1018 WT, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Social Psychology, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Amsterdam Institute for Infection and 
Immunity Institute (AII), Amsterdam UMC, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(6)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), Bilthoven, 
The Netherlands.

Biomedical HIV-prevention strategies (BmPS) among men who have sex with men 
(MSM), such as pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) and viral load sorting (VLS), are 
essential but relatively new and their uptake gradual. Using an extension of the 
causal attitude network approach, we investigated which beliefs are related to 
uptake of PrEP and VLS at each time-point. We included 632 HIV-negative MSM from 
the Amsterdam Cohort Studies from four data-waves between 2017 and 2019. We 
estimated weighted, undirected networks for each time-point, where we included 
pairwise interactions of PrEP and VLS uptake and related beliefs. PrEP use 
increased from 10 to 31% (p < 0.001), while VLS was reported by 7-10% at each 
time-point. Uptake of both BmPS was directly related to the perceived positive 
impact of the strategy on one's quality of sex life and perceived supportive 
social norms. Overall network structure differed between time points, 
specifically in regard to PrEP. At earlier time points, perceptions of efficacy 
and affordability played an important role for PrEP uptake, while more recently 
social and health-related concerns became increasingly important.The network 
structure differed across data-waves, suggesting specific time changes in uptake 
motives. These findings may be used in communication to increase prevention 
uptake.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-42762-2
PMCID: PMC10533833
PMID: 37758796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


927. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2023 Oct;30(50):108959-108978. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-023-29983-8. Epub 2023 Sep 27.

Renewable energy, technological innovation, carbon emission, and life expectancy 
nexus: experience from the NAFTA economies.

Segbefia E(1), Dai B(2), Adotey P(1), Sampene AK(1), Amoako T(1), Lamptey C(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Management, Jiangsu University, 301# XuefuRoad, Zhenjiang, 212013, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)School of Public Health, Southeast University, 87# Dingjiaqiao, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu Province, 210009, People's Republic of China. hixiaodai@126.com.

One essential component that reflects the development of society and the economy 
of most countries is life expectancy (LEXP). Nevertheless, LEXP can be 
influenced by varying factors, including socioeconomic and medical factors. 
Therefore, this analysis's focal point and motivation is to explore how 
socioeconomic factors such as economic growth, technological innovation, carbon 
emission, human capital, and renewable energy affect LEXP. The study utilized 
panel data from 1990 to 2020 from the North American Free Trade Agreement 
(NAFTA), which consists of the USA, Mexico, and Canada. The initial test 
confirmed that the research series were stationary and cointegrated. Therefore, 
the research applied the cross-sectional autoregressive distributed lag 
(CS-ARDL) model to predict the paper's short- and long-term estimates. The 
empirical estimated model concluded that human capital, renewable energy, 
technological innovation, and economic growth boost life expectancy. Contrarily, 
the outcome espoused that carbon emission has an inverse association with LEXP. 
The causality test confirmed a unidirectional interaction between human capital, 
economic growth, technological innovation, and life expectancy. On the other 
hand, there is a bidirectional connection between carbon emission, renewable 
energy, and life expectancy. The research suggests that stakeholders and 
policy-makers strengthen and enforce air quality standards to reduce pollution 
from industrial emissions and vehicle exhaust and encourage using cleaner 
technologies to promote LEXP. The research outcome is empirically and 
theoretically consistent, providing an essential breakthrough for 
environment-health-energy and economic development policies.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-023-29983-8
PMID: 37759053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. BMC Geriatr. 2023 Sep 27;23(1):602. doi: 10.1186/s12877-023-04200-w.

The effects of walking on frailty, cognitive function and quality of life among 
inactive older adults in Saudi Arabia: a study protocol of randomized control 
trial by comparing supervised group-based intervention and non-supervised 
individual-based intervention.

Wong MYC(1), Karmakar P(2), Almarzooqi MA(3)(4), Rhodes RE(5), Zhang CQ(6), Ou 
KL(7), Yanping D(7), Chung PK(7), Alghamdi NA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Physical Education, The Education University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(2)Department of Sport, Physical Education and Health, Hong Kong Baptist 
University, Hong Kong, China. 19481241@life.hkbu.edu.hk.
(3)Department of Community Health Sciences, College of Applied Medical Sciences, 
King Saud University, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
(4)Leaders Development Institute, Ministry of Sport, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia.
(5)School of Exercise Science, Physical & Health Education, University of 
Victoria, Victoria, Canada.
(6)Department of Psychology, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(7)Department of Sport, Physical Education and Health, Hong Kong Baptist 
University, Hong Kong, China.

BACKGROUND: Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) demographics are also changing with 
the increase in life expectancy in the country and the rise in the number of 
older Saudi Arabians. Saudi Arabia has a higher rate of physically inactive 
people, and most of them are between the ages of 55-64. Walking is one of the 
most prevalent forms of physical activity in Saudi Arabia and the study showed 
that most people prefer walking for recreational and health benefits. Therefore, 
the purpose of the proposed study is to compare the effects of supervised 
group-based walking and non-supervised individual-based walking interventions on 
frailty, cognitive function and quality of life among inactive older adults in 
Saudi Arabia.
METHOD: This study will apply a three-group (2 intervention groups and 1 control 
group), double-blinded, randomized controlled trial (RCT) to examine the effect 
of different forms of walking interventions on Saudi Arabia older adults' 
frailty, cognitive function and quality of life immediately after a 16-week 
intervention, as well as the residual effects 12 weeks after completion of the 
interventions.
DISCUSSION: This study aims to determine whether supervised group walking and 
non-supervised individual walking lead to different effects. Given the limited 
evidence in the literature regarding Saudi Arabia older adults' physical fitness 
and health, it is worthwhile to explore the effect of walking, as well as the 
forms of walking on improving the overall physical fitness and psychological 
status of older adults in Saudi Arabia. The findings of the current study could 
also create awareness of the government and the general public in Saudi Arabia 
of the ageing problems and the effective ways of achieving better intervention 
results.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The trial is registered at the ClinicalTrials.gov PRS (Trial 
ID: NCT05151575; Date of first posted: 12/07/2021).

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-023-04200-w
PMCID: PMC10523652
PMID: 37759212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


929. Biology (Basel). 2023 Sep 4;12(9):1208. doi: 10.3390/biology12091208.

Inhibition of LNC EBLN3P Enhances Radiation-Induced Mitochondrial Damage in Lung 
Cancer Cells by Targeting the Keap1/Nrf2/HO-1 Axis.

Tang H(1), Liu S(1), Yan X(1), Jin Y(1), He X(1), Huang H(1), Liu L(2), Hu W(1), 
Wu A(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Radiation Medicine and Protection, School of 
Radiation Medicine and Protection, Collaborative Innovation Center of 
Radiological Medicine of Jiangsu Higher Education Institutions, Soochow 
University, Suzhou 215123, China.
(2)Suzhou Medical College, Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, China.

Lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer-related deaths in both women and 
men, claiming millions of lives worldwide. Radiotherapy is an effective modality 
for treating early-stage lung cancer; however, it cannot completely eradicate 
certain tumor cells due to their radioresistance. Radioresistance is commonly 
observed in conventionally fractionated radiotherapy, which can lead to 
treatment failure, metastasis, cancer recurrence, and poor prognosis for cancer 
patients. Identifying the underlying molecular mechanisms of radioresistance in 
lung cancer can promote the development of effective radiosensitizers, thereby 
improving patients' life expectancy and curability. In this study, we identified 
LNC EBLN3P as a regulator of lung cancer cell proliferation and 
radiosensitivity. The repression of LNC EBLN3P could increase ROS production and 
mitochondrial injury in NSCLC cells. In addition, knocking down LNC EBLN3P 
increased the binding of Nrf2 to Keap1, resulting in enhanced Nrf2 degradation, 
decreased translocation of Nrf2 to the nucleus, reduced expression of 
antioxidant protein HO-1, weakened cellular antioxidant capacity, and increased 
radiosensitivity of NSCLC cells. These findings suggest that targeting LNC 
EBLN3P could be a promising strategy for developing novel radiosensitizers in 
the context of conventional radiotherapy for NSCLC.

DOI: 10.3390/biology12091208
PMCID: PMC10525126
PMID: 37759607

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


930. Biomolecules. 2023 Sep 4;13(9):1346. doi: 10.3390/biom13091346.

Genomics of Wolfram Syndrome 1 (WFS1).

Kõks S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Perron Institute for Neurological and Translational Science, 8 Verdun Street, 
Nedlands, WA 6009, Australia.
(2)Centre for Molecular Medicine and Innovative Therapeutics, Murdoch 
University, Perth, WA 6150, Australia.

Wolfram Syndrome (WFS) is a rare, autosomal, recessive neurogenetic disorder 
that affects many organ systems. It is characterised by diabetes insipidus, 
diabetes mellites, optic atrophy, and deafness and, therefore, is also known as 
DIDMOAD. Nearly 15,000-30,000 people are affected by WFS worldwide, and, on 
average, patients suffering from WFS die at 30 years of age, usually from 
central respiratory failure caused by massive brain atrophy. The more prevalent 
of the two kinds of WFS is WFS1, which is a monogenic disease and caused by the 
loss of the WFS1 gene, whereas WFS2, which is more uncommon, is caused by 
mutations in the CISD2 gene. Currently, there is no treatment for WFS1 to 
increase the life expectancy of patients, and the treatments available do not 
significantly improve their quality of life. Understanding the genetics and the 
molecular mechanisms of WFS1 is essential to finding a cure. The inability of 
conventional medications to treat WFS1 points to the need for innovative 
strategies that must address the fundamental cause: the deletion of the WFS1 
gene that leads to the profound ER stress and disturbances in proteostasis. An 
important approach here is to understand the mechanism of the cell degeneration 
after the deletion of the WFS1 gene and to describe the differences in these 
mechanisms for the different tissues. The studies so far have indicated that 
remarkable clinical heterogeneity is caused by the variable vulnerability caused 
by WFS1 mutations, and these differences cannot be attributed solely to the 
positions of mutations in the WFS1 gene. The present review gives a broader 
overview of the results from genomic studies on the WFS1 mouse model.

DOI: 10.3390/biom13091346
PMCID: PMC10527379
PMID: 37759745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


931. Biomolecules. 2023 Sep 7;13(9):1360. doi: 10.3390/biom13091360.
