expectancy to increase by 15.8%, and incident cases of stroke, pulmonary 
hypertension, and chronic kidney disease to decrease by 19.8%, 24.5%, and 25.1%, 
respectively. The model suggests that improving Hb using a treatment such as 
voxelotor may have a positive public health impact by reducing the burden of SCD 
for patients and the healthcare system.

Copyright: © 2023 Galacteros et al. This is an open access article distributed 
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0291211
PMCID: PMC10499253
PMID: 37703228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


778. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2023 Aug 30. doi: 10.1249/MSS.0000000000003282. Online
 ahead of print.

Comparative Analysis of ActiGraph Step Counting Methods in Adults: A Systematic 
Literature Review and Meta-Analysis.

Toth L(1), Paluch AE(2), Bassett DR Jr(3), Rees-Punia E(4), Eberl EM(5), Park 
S(6), Evenson KR(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Applied Movement Sciences, University of North 
Florida, Jacksonville, FL.
(2)Department of Kinesiology and Institute for Applied Life Sciences, University 
of Massachusetts Amherst, Amherst, MA.
(3)Department of Kinesiology, Recreation, and Sport Studies (Emeritus), The 
University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN.
(4)Department of Population Science, American Cancer Society, Atlanta, GA.
(5)Center for Innovation in Digital HealthCare, Health Data Initiative, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA.
(6)Department of Biostatistics & Epidemiology, University of Massachusetts, 
Amherst, MA.
(7)Gillings School of Global Public Health, Department of Epidemiology, 
University of NC - Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC.

PURPOSE: The primary aim of this study was to compare steps/day across ActiGraph 
models, wear locations, and filtering methods. A secondary aim was to compare 
ActiGraph steps/day to those estimated by the ankle-worn StepWatch.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic literature review to identify studies of 
adults published before May 12, 2022, that compared free-living steps/day of 
ActiGraph step-counting methods and studies that compared ActiGraph to 
StepWatch. Random effects meta-analysis compared ActiGraph models, wear 
locations, filter mechanisms, and ActiGraph to StepWatch steps/day. A 
sensitivity analysis of wear location by younger and older age was included.
RESULTS: Twelve studies, with 46 comparisons, were identified. When worn on the 
hip, the AM-7164 recorded 123% of the GT series steps (no low-frequency 
extension (no LFE) or default filter). However, the AM-7164 recorded 72% of the 
GT series steps when the LFE was enabled. Independent of the filter used (i.e., 
LFE, no LFE), ActiGraph GT series monitors captured more steps on the wrist than 
on the hip, especially among older adults. Enabling the LFE on the GT series 
monitors consistently recorded more steps, regardless of wear location. When 
using the default filter (no LFE), ActiGraph recorded fewer steps than StepWatch 
(ActiGraph on hip 73% and ActiGraph on wrist 97% of StepWatch steps). When LFE 
was enabled, ActiGraph recorded more steps than StepWatch (ActiGraph on the hip 
132% and ActiGraph on the wrist 178% of StepWatch steps).
CONCLUSIONS: The choice of ActiGraph model, wear location, and filter all 
impacted steps/day in adults. These can markedly alter the steps recorded 
compared to a criterion method (StepWatch). This review provides critical 
insights for comparing studies using different ActiGraph step-counting methods.

Copyright © 2023 by the American College of Sports Medicine.

DOI: 10.1249/MSS.0000000000003282
PMID: 37703308

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest and Funding Source: No 
professional relationships with companies or manufacturers who will benefit from 
the results of the present study were declared. No funding sources were 
declared. The study results are presented clearly, honestly, and without 
fabrication, falsification, or inappropriate data manipulation. The results of 
the present study do not constitute an endorsement by the American College of 
Sports Medicine.


779. Soc Sci Med. 2023 Oct;334:116200. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2023.116200. Epub
 2023 Aug 31.

Economic policy uncertainty and subjective health: A gender perspective.

Tao HL(1), Cheng HP(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Soochow University, Taiwan; Research Center for 
Humanities and Social Sciences, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic 
address: hltao@scu.edu.tw.
(2)Department of Economics, Soochow University, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
terrycheng@scu.edu.tw.

This study utilizes data from the World Values Survey (WVS) and the 
country-level Economic Policy Uncertainty (EPU) index to explore the 
relationship between the EPU and subjective health status. Unlike studies that 
use suicide as the investigated variable, we find that the adverse association 
between subjective health and the EPU for women is no less than that for men. 
The adverse impact is robust for men of prime working age (25-54). It is also 
robust for women younger than 25, the age range (15-25) among women that suffer 
from depression at the highest rate. In addition, an asymmetric effect occurs 
for males of prime working age (25-54) and women older than 55. Specifically, 
the asymmetric effect indicates that the association between subjective health 
status and the EPU differs when the EPU is declining and increasing for both 
sexes, with the effect of the former greater than the latter. This might reflect 
that the EPU affects both sexes through different mechanisms, with men of prime 
working age being breadwinners and older women's long life expectancy and 
poverty caused by shorter careers.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2023.116200
PMID: 37703722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. J Aging Stud. 2023 Sep;66:101155. doi: 10.1016/j.jaging.2023.101155. Epub
2023  Jun 27.

Cognitivism ageing: The Alzheimer conundrum as switched ontology & the potential 
for a new materialist dementia.

Fletcher JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Fellow, Department of Sociology, University of Manchester, 3rd 
Floor, Arthur Lewis Building, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PL, UK. Electronic 
address: james.fletcher@manchester.ac.uk.

Following recent regulatory approvals for anti-Alzheimer's monoclonal 
antibodies, this paper considers the contemporary role of cognitivism in 
defining the ontological commitments of dementia research, as well as movements 
away from cognitivism under the umbrella of 4E cognitive science. 4E cognitive 
theories, extending cognition into bodies, their environs, and active relations 
between the two, share potentially fruitful affinities with new materialisms 
which focus on the co-constitution of matter in intra-action. These 
semi-overlapping conceptual positions furnish some opportunity for an 
ontological alternative to longstanding cognitivist commitments, particularly to 
the isolated brain as a material catalyst for commercial interventions. After 
outlining mainstream cognitivism and its shortcomings, I explore 4E and new 
materialism as possibly transformative conceptual schemas for dementia research, 
a field for which cognitivist imaginings of cognitive decline in later life have 
profound and often regrettable ramifications. To realise this new materialist 
dementia, I sketch out a cognitive ontology based on Barad's agential realism. 
This facilitates a reassessment of the biggest conundrum in dementia research - 
the lack of neat correlation between (apparently material) neuropathology and 
(apparently immaterial) cognitive impairment - alongside the continued failure 
of efforts to develop effective interventions. It also gives social researchers 
working on cognitive decline in later life an opportunity to reappraise the 
nature of social science as a response to such phenomena. If cognition and 
cognitive ageing are reimagined as an emergent characteristic of intra-acting 
matter, then new materialist social science might be at least as conducive to 
salutogenic interventions as the neuropsychiatric technoscience that dominates 
the contemporary dementia research economy despite continual failures. I argue 
that a new materialist cognitive ontology could help us think beyond an ageing 
cognitivism and, by extension, beyond the Alzheimer conundrum.

Copyright © 2023 The Author. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaging.2023.101155
PMID: 37704273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.781. Int J Cosmet Sci. 2023 Sep 13. doi: 10.1111/ics.12912. Online ahead of
print.

Water in cosmetics and Caenorhabditis elegans as an alternative model for 
lifespan assessment.

Richaud M(1), Rasasombat S(1), Cuq P(1), Galas S(1), Marti-Mestres G(1).

Author information:
(1)IBMM, University of Montpellier, CNRS, ENSCM, Montpellier, France.

OBJECTIVE: Water, often considered a fundamental component of life, is the most 
commonly used ingredient in the formulation of dermocosmetic products, with 
waterless products being the exception. Dermocosmetic products can contain 
anywhere from 50% to 85% water, which contributes to their texture and specific 
characteristics. The chemical composition of water varies depending on its 
origin and can be categorized as highly mineralized or low mineralized. These 
compositions could impact the water's efficacy in anti-aging applications. In 
this study, the objective is evaluating the anti-aging properties of highly and 
low mineralized water with the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans.
METHODS: In this article, we employed the alternative model organism C. elegans 
to assess the impact of 5 branded waters, one physiological water and one 
ultra-pure water on the model's lifespan, using the survival medium 
conventionally used for C. elegans as a comparison.
RESULTS: Waters may have either a positive or a negative impact on the C. 
elegans lifespan expectancy. Our results indicate that only one of the water 
brands we assessed (Volvic®) had a significantly positive effect on worm 
longevity. In contrast, we found that two other brands (Hepar® and Contrex®) had 
a negative impact on the later stages of the worm's adulthood. Furthermore, we 
demonstrated that the impact of the brand water samples on lifespan expectancy 
varied depending on their physicochemical composition, in particular when ion 
concentrations were most extreme.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that the highly mineralized waters studied have a 
detrimental effect on the survival of C. elegans, and a preliminary test with 
ultra-pure water could not be completed due to its deleterious effect on the 
worms. This suggests the hypothesis that both highly mineralized and completely 
demineralized waters may not be the most suitable for skin formulations.

Publisher: OBJECTIF: L’eau, élément fondamental à la vie, est l’ingrédient le 
plus utilisé dans la formulation de produits dermocosmétiques, pour lesquels les 
produits sans eau restent des exceptions. Les produits dermocosmétiques 
contiennent 50% à 85% d’eau, contribuant à leurs textures et leurs 
caractéristiques spécifiques. La composition chimique de l’eau varie en fonction 
de son origine et peut être catégorisée comme hautement ou faiblement 
minéralisée. Cette composition peut impacter l’efficacité de l‘eau pour ses 
applications anti-âge. Dans cette étude, l’objectif est d’évaluer les propriétés 
anti-âge d’eaux fortement ou faiblement minéralisées à l’aide de l’organisme 
modèle Caenorhabditis elegans.
METHODES: Dans ce travail, nous avons utilisé le modèle alternatif C. 
elegans pour étudier l’impact de 5 marques d’eaux, du sérum physiologique et de 
l’eau ultrapure sur ce modèle, en utilisant le milieu de culture standard de C. 
elegans comme contrôle.
RESULTATS: Les eaux peuvent avoir un impact positif ou négatif sur la longévité 
des C. elegans. Nos résultats indiquent que seule l’une des eaux étudiées 
(Volvic®) a un impact positif sur la longévité des nématodes. Au contraire, nous 
avons montré que 2 autres eaux (Hepar® and Contrex®) ont un impact négatif sur 
les derniers stades adultes. De plus, nous avons démontré que l’impact des eaux 
sur la longévité variait en fonction de leurs compositions physicochimiques, en 
particulier lorsque les concentrations ioniques sont extrêmes.

© 2023 The Authors. International Journal of Cosmetic Science published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society of Cosmetic Scientists and Societe 
Francaise de Cosmetologie.

DOI: 10.1111/ics.12912
PMID: 37704396


782. J Craniomaxillofac Surg. 2023 Sep 9:S1010-5182(23)00161-0. doi: 
10.1016/j.jcms.2023.09.006. Online ahead of print.

Dynamometric outcomes of the donor site leg after vastus lateralis free flap 
harvest.

Mihovilovic A(1), Martinovic D(2), Martinic J(3), Markovic D(4), Tarle M(5), 
Jerkovic D(6), Vuk S(7), Dediol E(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Maxillofacial Surgery, University Hospital of Split, 21000, 
Split, Croatia; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery, University of Split School 
of Medicine, 21000, Split, Croatia. Electronic address: amihovilovic@kbsplit.hr.
(2)Department of Maxillofacial Surgery, University Hospital of Split, 21000, 
Split, Croatia; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery, University of Split School 
of Medicine, 21000, Split, Croatia.
(3)Department of Oral Surgery, University of Split School of Medicine, 21000, 
Split, Croatia.
(4)Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, University Hospital of Split, 21000, 
Split, Croatia.
(5)Department of Maxillofacial Surgery, University Hospital Dubrava, 10000, 
Zagreb, Croatia.
(6)Department of Oral Surgery, University of Split School of Medicine, 21000, 
Split, Croatia; Department of Oral Surgery, University Hospital of Split, 21000, 
Split, Croatia.
(7)Department of Kinesiology of Sport, University of Zagreb Faculty of 
Kinesiology, 10000, Zagreb, Croatia.
(8)Department of Maxillofacial Surgery, University Hospital Dubrava, 10000, 
Zagreb, Croatia; Department of Maxillofacial Surgery, University of Zagreb 
School of Medicine, 10000, Zagreb, Croatia.

The vastus lateralis muscle is one of the four muscles that make up the 
quadriceps femoris muscle, and it is also the largest of them. Some studies have 
shown that patients experience lower quality of life and muscle weakness after 
surgical treatment of thigh muscles in order to perform reconstructive surgery 
of the head and neck. The aim of our study was to assess the quantitative and 
qualitative function of the lower extremities using an isokinetic dynamometer 
and a validated questionnaire on subjective difficulties in patients who 
underwent reconstructive surgery with the vastus lateralis free flap. Fourteen 
participants aged 20-70 years who suffered from malignant tumor in the head and 
neck region. The free vastus lateralis flap was used for reconstruction. All 
patients underwent isokinetic dynamometric measurement with the isokinetic 
dynamometer to test the isokinetic functions of the thigh muscles after surgery. 
In addition, subjective assessment of the lower extremities was performed using 
the validated questionnaire Lower Extremity Functional Scale. All isometric 
dynamometer measurements of the donor leg were compared with those of the 
unoperated leg. Peak torque and average power were significantly lower in the 
operated leg compared with the unoperated leg after 60°/s extension (p = 0.018 
for peak torque, p = 0.021 for average power) and 180°/s extension (p = 0.019 
for peak torque, p = 0.015 for average power). On the other hand, there was no 
statistically significant difference in dynamometer measurements after 60°/s 
flexion (p = 0.700 for peak torque, p = 0.854 for average power, and 180°/s 
flexion (p = 0.634 for peak torque, p = 0.571 for average power). The median 
value for the LEFS was 65.5 (40.00-71.25). The results of this study showed that 
there is a significant deterioration regarding the biophysical properties of the 
operated leg after harvesting vastus lateralis free flap.

Copyright © 2023 European Association for Cranio-Maxillo-Facial Surgery. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcms.2023.09.006
PMID: 37704506

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations of competing interest None.


783. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2023 Oct;30(47):104450-104463. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-023-29766-1. Epub 2023 Sep 13.

Financial inclusion and environmental pollution in Türkiye: Fresh evidence from 
load capacity curve using AARDL method.

Yurtkuran S(1), Güneysu Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Trabzon University, 61040, Trabzon, Türkiye. suleymanyurtkuran@hotmail.com.
(2)Trabzon University, 61040, Trabzon, Türkiye.

Sustainability is an important concept for the whole world. Generally, in order 
to measure the sustainability of the environment, carbon dioxide emissions and 
ecological footprint indicators are used. However, these variables do not 
reflect the supply side of natural resources. Therefore, load capacity factor is 
an important environmental indicator for a sustainability. Environmental 
assessment based on the load capacity factor is more meaningful. Besides, 
improved access to financial services can contribute to environmental 
sustainability. The effect of financial inclusion on the load capacity factor in 
Türkiye has not been examined in the current literature. In this context, this 
study analyzes the impact of financial inclusion, hydropower energy consumption, 
and life expectancy at birth on environmental sustainability from a different 
perspective by focusing on load capacity factor. To this end, this study used 
the newly developed Augmented ARDL method to determine the cointegration 
relationship between the series and measure the values of the long-term 
coefficients. Based on the Augmented ARDL method, there is a cointegration 
relationship between the series. In the long run, hydropower energy consumption 
reduces pollution, while financial inclusion decreases load capacity factor. The 
effect of life expectancy at birth on pollution is not significant. Moreover, 
the results reveal that the load capacity curve hypothesis is valid in Türkiye. 
As a result, the Turkish government should promote renewable energy sources, 
especially hydropower energy consumption, align financial services with 
pollution reduction measures, and contribute to the creation of an 
environmentally conscious society.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-023-29766-1
PMID: 37704809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Popul Health Metr. 2023 Sep 13;21(1):14. doi: 10.1186/s12963-023-00314-w.

The fraction of life years lost after diagnosis (FLYLAD): a person-centred 
measure of cancer burden.

Banham D(1)(2), Karnon J(3), Brown A(4)(5), Roder D(6), Lynch J(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Adelaide, North Terrace, Adelaide, SA, 
5000, Australia. david.banham@adelaide.edu.au.
(2)Wardliparingga Aboriginal Health Research, South Australian Health and 
Medical Research Institute, North Terrace, Adelaide, SA, 5000, Australia. 
david.banham@adelaide.edu.au.
(3)College of Medicine and Public Health, Flinders University, Sturt Road, 
Bedford Park, SA, 5042, Australia.
(4)Wardliparingga Aboriginal Health Research, South Australian Health and 
Medical Research Institute, North Terrace, Adelaide, SA, 5000, Australia.
(5)Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Adelaide, North 
Terrace, Adelaide, SA, 5000, Australia.
(6)School of Health Sciences, Cancer Research Institute, University of South 
Australia, North Terrace, Adelaide, SA, 5000, Australia.
(7)School of Public Health, University of Adelaide, North Terrace, Adelaide, SA, 
5000, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Cancer control initiatives are informed by quantifying the capacity 
to reduce cancer burden through effective interventions. Burden measures using 
health administrative data are a sustainable way to support monitoring and 
evaluating of outcomes among patients and populations. The Fraction of Life 
Years Lost After Diagnosis (FLYLAD) is one such burden measure. We use data on 
Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal South Australians from 1990 to 2010 to show how 
FLYLAD quantifies disparities in cancer burden: between populations; between 
sub-population cohorts where stage at diagnosis is available; and when follow-up 
is constrained to 24-months after diagnosis.
METHOD: FLYLADcancer is the fraction of years of life expectancy lost due to 
cancer (YLLcancer) to life expectancy years at risk at time of cancer diagnosis 
(LYAR) for each person. The Global Burden of Disease standard life table 
provides referent life expectancies. FLYLADcancer was estimated for the 
population of cancer cases diagnosed in South Australia from 1990 to 2010. 
Cancer stage at diagnosis was also available for cancers diagnosed in Aboriginal 
people and a cohort of non-Aboriginal people matched by sex, year of birth, 
primary cancer site and year of diagnosis.
RESULTS: Cancers diagnoses (N = 144,891) included 777 among Aboriginal people. 
Cancer burden described by FLYLADcancer was higher among Aboriginal than 
non-Aboriginal (0.55, 95% CIs 0.52-0.59 versus 0.39, 95% CIs 0.39-0.40). 
Diagnoses at younger ages among Aboriginal people, 7 year higher LYAR (31.0, 95% 
CIs 30.0-32.0 versus 24.1, 95% CIs 24.1-24.2) and higher premature cancer 
mortality (YLLcancer = 16.3, 95% CIs 15.1-17.5 versus YLLcancer = 8.2, 95% CIs 
8.2-8.3) influenced this. Disparities in cancer burden between the matched 
Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal cohorts manifested 24-months after diagnosis with 
FLYLADcancer 0.44, 95% CIs 0.40-0.47 and 0.28, 95% CIs 0.25-0.31 respectively.
CONCLUSION: FLYLAD described disproportionately higher cancer burden among 
Aboriginal people in comparisons involving: all people diagnosed with cancer; 
the matched cohorts; and, within groups diagnosed with same staged disease. The 
extent of disparities were evident 24-months after diagnosis. This is evidence 
of Aboriginal peoples' substantial capacity to benefit from cancer control 
initiatives, particularly those leading to earlier detection and treatment of 
cancers. FLYLAD's use of readily available, person-level administrative records 
can help evaluate health care initiatives addressing this need.

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s12963-023-00314-w
PMCID: PMC10500871
PMID: 37704992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare they have no competing 
interests.


785. J Interpers Violence. 2023 Sep 14:8862605231197781. doi: 
10.1177/08862605231197781. Online ahead of print.

Elucidating Intimate Partner Violence Rate Disparities Between Same- and 
Opposite-Sex Couples: A Demographic Approach.

Hubbell JT(1).

Author information:
(1)University at Albany, SUNY, Albany, NY, USA.

Studies on intimate partner violence (IPV) rates typically find higher rates for 
same-sex couples than opposite-sex couples. Regardless of sexual orientation, 
the risk for IPV perpetration is concentrated among young adults. Given that the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic significantly lowered the life expectancy of sexual minority 
men and that recent social movements have encouraged more youths to "come out," 
population age differences may contribute to the observed differences in IPV 
rates between same- and opposite-sex couples. The present study applies direct 
age standardization and decomposition techniques to data from the National 
Incident-Based Reporting System and the American Community Survey to examine 
this possibility across 2,584 same-sex male, 4,029 same-sex female, and 284,614 
opposite-sex physical IPV incidents. The results of the direct standardization 
procedures indicate physical IPV rates for same-sex male and same-sex female 
households would be 11.8% and 27.3% lower, respectively, if they had the same 
population age structure as opposite-sex households. The results of the 
decompositions indicate that differences in population age structure contribute 
48% and 44% of the elevation in IPV rates in same-sex male and same-sex female 
households, respectively, compared to opposite-sex households. These findings 
demonstrate the promise of demographic methods to explain differences in 
offending rates between groups. These results suggest the need for prevention 
and intervention strategies aimed at youths. Future studies should be conducted 
with data on sexual orientation and gender identity to better elucidate the 
contribution of population age structure among various sexual and gender 
minority groups. Research comparing trends among sexual minority populations to 
the heterosexual population in particular should account for age where possible.

DOI: 10.1177/08862605231197781
PMID: 37705427


786. Psychol Med. 2023 Sep 14:1-9. doi: 10.1017/S0033291723002635. Online ahead
of  print.

Mental illness and cardiovascular health: observational and polygenic score 
analyses in a population-based cohort study.

Veeneman RR(1), Vermeulen JM(2), Bialas M(1), Bhamidipati AK(1), Abdellaoui 
A(1), Munafò MR(3)(4), Denys D(2), Bezzina CR(5), Verweij KJH(1), Tadros R(6), 
Treur JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Genetic Epidemiology, Department of Psychiatry, Amsterdam UMC Location 
University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Amsterdam UMC Location University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(4)School of Psychological Science, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(5)Department of Clinical and Experimental Cardiology, Heart Center, Amsterdam 
Cardiovascular Sciences, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(6)Cardiovascular Genetics Center, Montreal Heart Institute, Faculty of 
Medicine, Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Individuals with serious mental illness have a markedly shorter life 
expectancy. A major contributor to premature death is cardiovascular disease 
(CVD). We investigated associations of (genetic liability for) depressive 
disorder, bipolar disorder and schizophrenia with a range of CVD traits and 
examined to what degree these were driven by important confounders.
METHODS: We included participants of the Dutch Lifelines cohort (N = 147 337) 
with information on self-reported lifetime diagnosis of depressive disorder, 
bipolar disorder, or schizophrenia and CVD traits. Employing linear 
mixed-effects models, we examined associations between mental illness diagnoses 
and CVD, correcting for psychotropic medication, demographic and lifestyle 
factors. In a subsample (N = 73 965), we repeated these analyses using polygenic 
scores (PGSs) for the three mental illnesses.
RESULTS: There was strong evidence that depressive disorder diagnosis is 
associated with increased arrhythmia and atherosclerosis risk and lower heart 
rate variability, even after confounder adjustment. Positive associations were 
also found for the depression PGSs with arrhythmia and atherosclerosis. Bipolar 
disorder was associated with a higher risk of nearly all CVD traits, though most 
diminished after adjustment. The bipolar disorder PGSs did not show any 
associations. While the schizophrenia PGSs was associated with increased 
arrhythmia risk and lower heart rate variability, schizophrenia diagnosis was 
not. All mental illness diagnoses were associated with lower blood pressure and 
a lower risk of hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows widespread associations of (genetic liability to) 
mental illness (primarily depressive disorder) with CVD, even after confounder 
adjustment. Future research should focus on clarifying potential causal pathways 
between mental illness and CVD.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291723002635
PMID: 37706306


787. JMIR Form Res. 2023 Sep 14;7:e47666. doi: 10.2196/47666.

Understanding Physical Activity Determinants in an HIV Self-Management 
Intervention: Qualitative Analysis Guided by the Theory of Planned Behavior.

Sanabria G(1), Bushover B(2), Ashrafnia S(3), Cordoba E(3), Schnall R(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Public Health, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United 
States.
(2)Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, NY, United 
States.
(3)Division of Scholarship and Research, Columbia University School of Nursing, 
New York, NY, United States.

BACKGROUND: People living with HIV have long life expectancy and are 
experiencing more comorbid conditions, being at an increased risk for developing 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) and diabetes, further exacerbated due to the HIV or 
inflammatory process. One effective intervention shown to decrease mortality and 
improve health outcomes related to CVD and diabetes in people living with HIV is 
increased regular physical activity. However, people living with HIV often fall 
short of the daily recommended physical activity levels. While studies show that 
mobile health (mHealth) can potentially help improve people's daily activity 
levels and reduce mortality rates due to comorbid conditions, these studies do 
not specifically focus on people living with HIV. As such, it is essential to 
understand how mHealth interventions, such as wearables, can improve the 
physical activity of people living with HIV.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to understand participants' experiences wearing a 
fitness tracker and an app to improve their physical activity.
METHODS: In total, 6 focus groups were conducted with participants who completed 
the control arm of a 6-month randomized controlled trial (ClinicalTrials.gov 
NCT03205982). The control arm received daily walk step reminders to walk at 
least 5000 steps per day and focused on the overall wellness of the individual. 
The analysis of the qualitative focus groups used inductive content analysis 
using the theory of planned behavior as a framework to guide and organize the 
analysis.
RESULTS: In total, 41 people living with HIV participated in the focus groups. 
The majority (n=26, 63%) of participants reported their race as Black or African 
American, and 32% (n=13) of them identified their ethnicity as Hispanic or 
Latino. In total, 9 major themes were identified and organized following the 
theory of planned behavior constructs. Overall, 2 major themes (positive 
attitude toward tracking steps and tracking steps is motivating) related to 
attitudes toward the behavior, 2 major themes (social support or motivation from 
the fitness tracker and app and encouragement from family and friends) related 
to participant's subjective norms, 1 theme (you can adjust your daily habits 
with time) related to perceived behavioral control, 2 themes (reach their step 
goal and have a healthier lifestyle) related to participant's intention, and 2 
themes (continuing to walk actively and regularly wearing the fitness tracker) 
related to participant's changed behavior. Participants highlighted how the 
mHealth interface with the avatar and daily step tracking motivated them to both 
begin and continue to engage in physical activity by adjusting their daily 
routines.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings from this study illustrate how features of mHealth apps 
may motivate people living with HIV to start and continue sustained engagement 
in physical activities. This sustained increase in physical activity is crucial 
for reducing the risk of comorbid conditions such as diabetes or CVD.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03205982; 
https://classic.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03205982.

©Gabriella Sanabria, Brady Bushover, Sarah Ashrafnia, Evette Cordoba, Rebecca 
Schnall. Originally published in JMIR Formative Research 
(https://formative.jmir.org), 14.09.2023.

DOI: 10.2196/47666
PMCID: PMC10540011
PMID: 37707942

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


788. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2023 Sep 14:glad220. doi:
10.1093/gerona/glad220.  Online ahead of print.

Fluoxetine promotes longevity via reactive oxygen species in Caenorhabditis 
elegans.

Zhou C(1), Zhou Y(1), Liang Y(1), Chen L(1), Liu L(1), Wei F(1), Li G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Aging Biomedicine, National & Local Joint Engineering Laboratory 
of Animal Peptide Drug Development, College of Life Sciences, Hunan Normal 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Hunan Province for Model Animal and Stem Cell Biology, 
School of Medicine, Hunan Normal University, Changsha, Hunan, China.

While several antidepressants have been identified as potential geroprotectors, 
the effect and mechanism of fluoxetine, a representative selective serotonin 
reuptake inhibitor, on longevity have not been fully elucidated. Here, we found 
that fluoxetine promoted longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) with a 
concomitant extension of a healthy lifespan as indicated by increasing mobility, 
reducing fertility and lipofuscin accumulation, and enhanced resistance to 
different abiotic stresses. Fluoxetine increased the level of reactive oxygen 
species (ROS), and antioxidant N-acetylcysteine abolished ROS elevation and the 
pro-longevity effect of fluoxetine. Additionally, fluoxetine extended lifespan 
through the daf-2-sod-3 pathway in daf-16-dependent and -independent manners, 
and fluoxetine-induced lifespan extension was abolished in C. elegans sod-3, 
daf-2, and daf-16 mutants. In conclusion, these findings suggest that fluoxetine 
can promote health and longevity in C. elegans via the interaction of ROS and 
insulin signaling.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glad220
PMID: 37708096


789. Ticks Tick Borne Dis. 2023 Nov;14(6):102251. doi:
10.1016/j.ttbdis.2023.102251.  Epub 2023 Sep 12.

Stable internal reference genes for quantitative RT-PCR analyses in 
Rhipicephalus microplus during embryogenesis.

Kim TK(1), Waldman J(2), Ibanez-Carrasco F(3), Tirloni L(4), Waltero C(5), 
Calixo C(5), Braz GR(6), Mulenga A(7), da Silva Vaz Junior I(8), Logullo C(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Texas 
A&M University, College Station, TX, USA; Department of Diagnostic Medicine and 
Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Kansas State University, 
Manhattan, KS, USA; Laboratório de Bioquímica de Artrópodes Hematófagos, 
Instituto de Bioquímica Médica Leopoldo de Meis, Universidade Federal do Rio de 
Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(2)Centro de Biotecnologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto 
Alegre, RS, Brazil.
(3)Department of Entomology, Minnie Bell Heep Center, Texas A&M University, 
Suite 412, 2475 TAMU, 370 Olsen Blvd, College Station, TX, USA; Texas A&M 
AgriLife Research and Extension Center, 2415 East US Highway 83, Weslaco, TX 
78596, USA.
(4)Tick-Pathogen Transmission Unit, Laboratory of Bacteriology, National 
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Hamilton, MT, USA.
(5)Laboratório de Bioquímica de Artrópodes Hematófagos, Instituto de Bioquímica 
Médica Leopoldo de Meis, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(6)Departamento de Bioquímica, Instituto de Química, Universidade Federal do Rio 
de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; Instituto Nacional de Ciência e 
Tecnologia - Entomologia Molecular, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(7)Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Texas 
A&M University, College Station, TX, USA.
(8)Centro de Biotecnologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto 
Alegre, RS, Brazil; Instituto Nacional de Ciência e Tecnologia - Entomologia 
Molecular, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; Faculdade de Veterinária, Universidade 
Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil. Electronic address: 
itabajara.vaz@ufrgs.br.
(9)Laboratório de Bioquímica de Artrópodes Hematófagos, Instituto de Bioquímica 
Médica Leopoldo de Meis, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil,; 
Instituto Nacional de Ciência e Tecnologia - Entomologia Molecular, Rio de 
Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.

Studies on the transcriptional control of gene expression are crucial to 
understand changes in organism's physiological or cellular conditions. To obtain 
reliable data on mRNA amounts and the estimation of gene expression levels, it 
is crucial to normalize the target gene with one or more internal reference 
gene(s). However, the use of constitutive genes as reference genes is 
controversial, as their expression patterns are sometimes more complex than 
previously thought. In various arthropod vectors, including ticks, several 
constitutive genes have been identified by studying gene expression in different 
tissues and life stages. The cattle tick Rhipicephalus microplus is a major 
vector for several pathogens and is widely distributed in tropical and 
subtropical regions globally. Tick developmental physiology is an essential 
aspect of research, particularly embryogenesis, where many important 
developmental events occur, thus the identification of stable reference genes is 
essential for the interpretation of reliable gene expression data. This study 
aimed to identify and select R. microplus housekeeping genes and evaluate their 
stability during embryogenesis. Reference genes used as internal control in 
molecular assays were selected based on previous studies. These genes were 
screened by quantitative PCR (qPCR) and tested for gene expression stability 
during embryogenesis. Results demonstrated that the relative stability of 
reference genes varied at different time points during the embryogenesis. The 
GeNorm tool showed that elongation factor 1α (Elf1a) and ribosomal protein L4 
(Rpl4) were the most stable genes, while H3 histone family 3A (Hist3A) and 
ribosomal protein S18 (RpS18) were the least stable. The NormFinder tool showed 
that Rpl4 was the most stable gene, while the ranking of Elf1a was intermediate 
in all tested conditions. The BestKeeper tool showed that Rpl4 and cyclophilin A 
(CycA) were the more and less stable genes, respectively. These data 
collectively demonstrate that Rpl4, Elf1a, and GAPDH are suitable internal 
controls for normalizing qPCR during R. microplus embryogenesis. These genes 
were consistently identified as the most stable in various analysis methods 
employed in this study. Thus, findings presented in this study offer valuable 
information for the study of gene expression during embryogenesis in R. 
microplus.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ttbdis.2023.102251
PMCID: PMC10555470
PMID: 37708803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.


790. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2023 Oct;11(10):709-710. doi: 
10.1016/S2213-8587(23)00255-3. Epub 2023 Sep 11.

Many years of life lost to young-onset type 2 diabetes.

Duncan BB(1), Schmidt MI(2).

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Program in Epidemiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do 
Sul, Porto Alegre 90035-003, Brazil. Electronic address: bbduncan@ufrgs.br.
(2)Postgraduate Program in Epidemiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do 
Sul, Porto Alegre 90035-003, Brazil.

Comment on
    Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2023 Oct;11(10):731-742.

DOI: 10.1016/S2213-8587(23)00255-3
PMID: 37708899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We declare no competing interests.


791. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2023 Oct;11(10):731-742. doi: 
10.1016/S2213-8587(23)00223-1. Epub 2023 Sep 11.

Life expectancy associated with different ages at diagnosis of type 2 diabetes 
in high-income countries: 23 million person-years of observation.

Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration.

Collaborators: Kaptoge S, Seshasai S, Sun L, Walker M, Bolton T, Spackman S, 
Ataklte F, Willeit P, Bell S, Burgess S, Pennells L, Altay S, Assmann G, 
Ben-Shlomo Y, Best LG, Björkelund C, Blazer DG, Brenner H, Brunner EJ, Dagenais 
GR, Cooper JA, Cooper C, Crespo CJ, Cushman M, D'Agostino RB Sr, Daimon M, 
Daniels LB, Danker R, Davidson KW, de Jongh RT, Donfrancesco C, Ducimetiere P, 
Elders P, Engström G, Ford I, Gallacher I, Bakker S, Goldbourt U, de La Cámara 
G, Grimsgaard S, Gudnason V, Hansson PO, Imano H, Jukema JW, Kabrhel C, Kauhanen 
J, Kavousi M, Kiechl S, Knuiman MW, Kromhout D, Krumholz HM, Kuller LH, 
Laatikainen T, Lowler DA, Meyer HE, Mukamal K, Nietert PJ, Ninomiya T, Nitsch D, 
Nordestgaard BG, Palmieri L, Price JF, Ridker PM, Sun Q, Rosengren A, Roussel R, 
Sakurai M, Salomaa V, Schöttker B, Shaw JE, Strandberg TE, Sundström J, Tolonen 
H, Tverdal A, Verschuren W, Völzke H, Wagenknecht L, Wallace RB, Wannamethee SG, 
Wareham NJ, Wassertheil-Smoller S, Yamagishi K, Yeap BB, Harrison S, Inouye M, 
Griffin S, Butterworth AS, Wood AM, Thompson SG, Sattar N, Danesh J, Di 
Angelantonio E, Tipping RW, Russell S, Johansen M, Bancks MP, Mongraw-Chaffin M, 
Magliano D, Barr E, Zimmet PZ, Knuiman MW, Whincup PH, Willeit J, Willeit P, 
Leitner C, Lawlor DA, Ben-Shlomo Y, Elwood P, Sutherland SE, Hunt KJ, Cushman M, 
Selmer RM, Haheim LL, Ariansen I, Tybjaer-Hansen A, Frikkle-Schmidt R, Langsted 
A, Donfrancesco C, Lo Noce C, Balkau B, Bonnet F, Fumeron F, Pablos DL, Ferro 
CR, Morales TG, Mclachlan S, Guralnik J, Khaw KT, Brenner H, Holleczek B, 
Stocker H, Nissinen A, Palmieri L, Vartiainen E, Jousilahti P, Harald K, Massaro 
JM, Pencina M, Lyass A, Susa S, Oizumi T, Kayama T, Chetrit A, Roth J, Orenstein 
L, Welin L, Svärdsudd K, Lissner L, Hange D, Mehlig K, Salomaa V, Tilvis RS, 
Dennison E, Cooper C, Westbury L, Norman PE, Almeida OP, Hankey GJ, Hata J, 
Shibata M, Furuta Y, Bom MT, Rutters F, Muilwijk M, Kraft P, Lindstrom S, Turman 
C, Kiyama M, Kitamura A, Yamagishi K, Gerber Y, Laatikainen T, Salonen JT, van 
Schoor LN, van Zutphen EM, Verschuren W, Engström G, Melander O, Psaty BM, Blaha 
M, de Boer IH, Kronmal RA, Sattar N, Rosengren A, Nitsch D, Grandits G, Tverdal 
A, Shin HC, Albertorio JR, Gillum RF, Hu FB, Cooper JA, Humphries S, Hill-Briggs 
F, Vrany E, Butler M, Schwartz JE, Kiyama M, Kitamura A, Iso H, Amouyel P, 
Arveiler D, Ferrieres J, Gansevoort RT, de Boer R, Kieneker L, Crespo CJ, 
Assmann G, Trompet S, Kearney P, Cantin B, Després JP, Lamarche B, Laughlin G, 
McEvoy L, Aspelund T, Thorsson B, Sigurdsson G, Tilly M, Ikram MA, Dorr M, 
Schipf S, Völzke H, Fretts AM, Umans JG, Ali T, Shara N, Davey-Smith G, Can G, 
Yüksel H, Özkan U, Nakagawa H, Morikawa Y, Ishizaki M, Njølstad I, Wilsgaard T, 
Mathiesen E, Sundström J, Buring J, Cook N, Arndt V, Rothenbacher D, Manson J, 
Tinker L, Shipley M, Tabak AG, Kivimaki M, Packard C, Robertson M, Feskens E, 
Geleijnse M, Kromhout D.

Comment in
    Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2023 Oct;11(10):709-710.

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of type 2 diabetes is increasing rapidly, 
particularly among younger age groups. Estimates suggest that people with 
diabetes die, on average, 6 years earlier than people without diabetes. We aimed 
to provide reliable estimates of the associations between age at diagnosis of 
diabetes and all-cause mortality, cause-specific mortality, and reductions in 
life expectancy.
METHODS: For this observational study, we conducted a combined analysis of 
individual-participant data from 19 high-income countries using two large-scale 
data sources: the Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration (96 cohorts, median 
baseline years 1961-2007, median latest follow-up years 1980-2013) and the UK 
Biobank (median baseline year 2006, median latest follow-up year 2020). We 
calculated age-adjusted and sex-adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) for all-cause 
mortality according to age at diagnosis of diabetes using data from 1 515 718 
participants, in whom deaths were recorded during 23·1 million person-years of 
follow-up. We estimated cumulative survival by applying age-specific HRs to 
age-specific death rates from 2015 for the USA and the EU.
FINDINGS: For participants with diabetes, we observed a linear dose-response 
association between earlier age at diagnosis and higher risk of all-cause 
mortality compared with participants without diabetes. HRs were 2·69 (95% CI 
2·43-2·97) when diagnosed at 30-39 years, 2·26 (2·08-2·45) at 40-49 years, 1·84 
(1·72-1·97) at 50-59 years, 1·57 (1·47-1·67) at 60-69 years, and 1·39 
(1·29-1·51) at 70 years and older. HRs per decade of earlier diagnosis were 
similar for men and women. Using death rates from the USA, a 50-year-old 
individual with diabetes died on average 14 years earlier when diagnosed aged 30 
years, 10 years earlier when diagnosed aged 40 years, or 6 years earlier when 
diagnosed aged 50 years than an individual without diabetes. Using EU death 
rates, the corresponding estimates were 13, 9, or 5 years earlier.
INTERPRETATION: Every decade of earlier diagnosis of diabetes was associated 
with about 3-4 years of lower life expectancy, highlighting the need to develop 
and implement interventions that prevent or delay the onset of diabetes and to 
intensify the treatment of risk factors among young adults diagnosed with 
diabetes.
FUNDING: British Heart Foundation, Medical Research Council, National Institute 
for Health and Care Research, and Health Data Research UK.

Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open Access article under the CC BY 4.0 
license.

DOI: 10.1016/S2213-8587(23)00223-1
PMCID: PMC7615299
PMID: 37708900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests ASB reports grants 
outside of this work from AstraZeneca, Bayer, Biogen, BioMarin, Merck, Novartis, 
and Sanofi. BGN reports consulting fees form AstraZeneca, Sanofi, Regeneron 
Pharmaceuticals, Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Amgen, Kowa Pharmaceuticals, Denka, 
Amarin, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Esperion Therapeutics, Silence Therapeutics, and 
Ultragenyx; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing, or educational events from Sanofi, Amgen, Kowa 
Pharmaceuticals, Denka, Amarin, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Abbott Laboratories, 
Mankind Pharma; and participation on a data safety monitoring board or advisory 
board for AstraZeneca, Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Kowa Pharmaceuticals, Novartis, 
and Esperion. BBY reports grants from the National Health and Medical Research 
Council paid to his institutions (Medical School, The University of Western 
Australia, Perth, WA, Australia; and Department of Endocrinology and Diabetes, 
Fiona Stanley Hospital, Perth, WA, Australia). CK report grants from the US 
National Institutes of Health (NIH); grants or contracts from Grifols and 
Diagnostica Stago; consulting fees from BMS Pfizer; participation on a data 
safety monitoring board or advisory board for BMS Pfizer; a leadership or 
fiduciary role on the RECOVER-CDC Steering Committee; and stock or stock options 
for Insera. CC reports consulting fees from the Alliance for Better Bone Health, 
Amgen, Eli Lilly, GSK, Medtronic, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Servier, 
Takeda, and UCB. DAL reports grants from the UK Medical Research Council (MRC), 
National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR), BHF, European Research 
Council, NIH, and Diabetes UK paid to her institutions (MRC Integrative 
Epidemiology Unit and Population Health Science, Bristol Medical School, 
University of Bristol, Bristol, UK); and participation on a data safety 
monitoring board or advisory board for the UK Biobank, Bradford Institute Health 
Research, and NIHR-BHF. DN reports grants outside of this work from GSK and 
participation on a data safety monitoring board or advisory board for GSK. EDA 
reports grants from the BHF, NIHR, and an NIHR Senior Investigator Award; and 
participation on a data safety monitoring board or advisory board from Our 
Future Health and EURAC Research. HMK reports grants outside of this work from 
the NIH Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, Foundation for a Smoke-Free 
World, State of CT Department of Public Health, US Food and Drug Administration, 
Johnson & Johnson, American Heart Association, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
Services, Google, and Pfizer; consultant fees from Massachusetts Medical 
Society, Eyedentifeye, and F-Prime; participation on a data safety monitoring 
board or advisory board for Aetna, Reality Labs, Element Science, and United 
Health; stock or stock options for Element Science and Eyedentifeye; and is a 
co-founder of Hugo Health and Refactor Health. JSu reports stock or stock 
options from Anagram Kommunikation, and Symptoms Europe. JD reports support from 
a BHF Professorship and NIHR Senior Investigator Award; and grants or contracts 
from Merck Sharp & Dohme, Novartis, Pfizer, and AstraZeneca, outside the 
submitted work. JG report grants or contracts from the MRC; payment or honoraria 
for lectures and support for attending meetings and/or travel from Yonsei 
University; and leadership or a fiduciary role for Dementias Platform UK and the 
BrainWaves study. JSh reports grants or contracts from AstraZeneca; consulting 
fees from AstraZeneca, Sanofi, Novo Nordisk, MSD, Eli Lilly, and Pfizer; and 
payment or honoraria for lectures and support for attending meetings and/or 
travel from Astra Zeneca, Mylan, Sanofi, Boehringer Ingelheim, Zuellig Pharma, 
and Abbott. KJM reports grants from the NIH. LS is now a full-time employee at 
Regeneron Genetics Center. LEW reports grants from the National Heart, Lung, and 
Blood Institute (NHLBI), NIH. NS reports grants paid to their institution 
(University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK) from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Novartis, and Roche Diagnostics; consulting fees from Abbott Laboratories, 
Afimmune, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, Hanmi 
Pharmaceuticals, Merck, Sharp & Dohme, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, Roche 
Diagnostics, and Sanofi; and payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from Abbott 
Laboratories, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, Janssen 
Pharmaceuticals, and Novo Nordisk. PJN reports grants from NIH. PMR has received 
institutional research grant support from Kowa Pharmaceuticals, Novartis, 
Amarin, Pfizer, Esperion, Novo Nordisk, and the NHLBI; has served as a 
consultant to Novartis, AstraZeneca, Kowa Pharmaceuticals, and Novo Nordisk; and 
receives compensation for service on the Peter Munk Advisory Board (University 
of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada), the Leducq Foundation, and the Baim Institute 
(Boston, MA, USA). RTdJ reports grants from Takeda Pharmaceuticals and payment 
or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, 
or educational events from Amgen. SGT has received institutional research grant 
support from the BHF. SJG is a trustee of the Novo Nordisk UK Research 
Foundation medical research charity. SKi reports grants or contracts from 
VASCage (Research Centre on Vascular Ageing and Stroke, project number 868624) 
of the Austrian Research Promotion Agency FFG (COMET program–Competence Centers 
for Excellent Technologies) funded by the Federal Ministry for Climate 
Protection, Environment, Energy, Transport, Innovation and Technology; the 
Federal Ministry for Labour and Economy; and the federal states Tyrol (via 
Standortagentur), Salzburg, and Vienna (via Vienna Business Agency). SK has 
received institutional research grant support from the BHF, the UK MRC, the UK 
NIHR, and Health Data Research UK. SB has received institutional research grant 
support from the Wellcome Trust and the MRC. SWS reports receiving institutional 
grants from the NIH, royalties from Springer Publishing, and consulting fees 
from Fred Hutchinson Cancer Institute and State University of NY at Buffalo. TS 
reports consulting fees from Amarin, Amgen, Novartis, Orion Pharma, Raisio 
Group, and Sankyo; and a leadership or fiduciary role for the Finnish guidelines 
for dyslipidaemia. VS reports receiving institutional grants from Juho Vainio 
Foundation and Bayer. All other authors declare no competing interests.


792. J Vasc Surg. 2023 Sep 12:S0741-5214(23)01946-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jvs.2023.09.003.  Online ahead of print.

Long-term value in open and endovascular repair of chronic mesenteric ischemia.

Lehane D(1), Geiger J(1), Kedwai B(1), Zottola Z(1), Newhall K(1), Mix D(1), 
Doyle A(1), Stoner M(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Rochester Medical Center, 
Rochester, NY.
(2)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Rochester Medical Center, 
Rochester, NY. Electronic address: michael_stoner@urmc.rochester.edu.

OBJECTIVE: Guidelines recommend open revascularization (OR) over endovascular 
revascularization (ER) for the treatment of chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI) 
for younger, healthier patients. However, little is known about the long-term 
costs of these recommendations with respect to patients' overall life 
expectancy. This study investigated whether 5-year value differs between these 
treatment modalities.
METHODS: Patient data were extracted from the Statewide Planning and Research 
Cooperative System, the New York statewide all-payor database containing 
demographics, diagnoses, treatments, and charges. The database was queried for 
patients with an International Classification of Diseases, ninth revision, code 
for CMI, with the specific exclusion of acute ischemia cases. A propensity score 
match was performed using the Charlson Comorbidity Index, age, sex, race, renal 
status, and pulmonary disease for the final cohort of patients. Multiple linear 
regression and mixed effects linear regression were used to determine factors 
associated with 5-year value, calculated as life-years/$100k in charges. Charges 
were gathered from the index admission and subsequent admissions for acute or 
CMI, mesenteric angiography, or follow-up reintervention. Kaplan-Meier 
estimation was performed for survival and reintervention-free survival.
RESULTS: From 2000 to 2014, 875 patients underwent intervention for CMI. Of 
those meeting inclusion criteria, 209 (28.1%) underwent OR and 535 (71.9%) ER. 
After propensity score matching (n = 209 in each group), the ER group showed 
higher value at 5 years after the procedure (8.04 ± 11.42 life-years/$100k 
charges vs 4.89 ± 5.28 life-years/$100k charges; P < .01). More patients 
underwent reintervention in the ER group (37 patients vs 17 patients; P < .01), 
with 55 reinterventions in the ER group and 19 in the OR group (P < .01). 
Multiple linear regression analysis showed that age, congestive heart failure, 
dysrhythmia, cancer, and days spent in the intensive care unit were negatively 
associated with value at 5 years, whereas ER was positively associated. Survival 
was 59.6 ± 3.76% vs 62.3% ± 3.49% at 5 years (P = .91), and reintervention-free 
survival was 43.7 ± 3.86% vs 58.1 ± 3.53% (P = .04), for ER and OR respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite increased reinterventions and lower reintervention-free 
survival, the value for patients with CMI was higher in those who underwent ER 
in the largest propensity score-matched cohort to date looking at long-term 
value. Factors negatively associated with value were OR, age, days in intensive 
care, congestive heart failure, dysrhythmia, and cancer. In patients with 
amenable anatomy, ER is validated as the first-choice treatment for CMI based on 
the superior procedural value.

Copyright © 2023 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2023.09.003
PMID: 37709177

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures None.


793. BMJ Open. 2023 Sep 13;13(9):e069512. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-069512.

Identifying regional disparities of infant mortality rates in Bangladesh: 
insights from nationwide cross-sectional studies and a statistical modelling 
approach using linear mixed effects model with temporal variability.

Islam T(1), Akter NJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Statistical Research and Training, University of Dhaka, Dhaka, 
Bangladesh.
(2)Institute of Statistical Research and Training, University of Dhaka, Dhaka, 
Bangladesh NAKTER1@ISRT.AC.BD.

OBJECTIVE: The major objective of this project is to find the best suitable 
model for district-wise infant mortality rate (IMR) data of Bangladesh over the 
period 2014-2020 that captures the regional variability and overtime variability 
of the data.
DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Data from seven consecutive cross-sectional 
surveys that were conducted in Bangladesh between 2014 and 2020 as a part of the 
Sample Vital Registration System (SVRS) were used in this study. The study 
included a total of 13 173 (with 390 infant deaths), 17 675 (with 512 infant 
deaths), 17 965 (with 501 infant deaths), 23 205 (with 556 infant deaths), 23 
094 (with 498 infant deaths), 23 090 (with 497 infant deaths) and 23 297 (with 
495 infant deaths) complete cases from SVRS datasets for each respective year.
METHOD: A linear mixed effects model (LMM) with a quadratic trend over time in 
the fixed effects part and a nested random intercept, as well as a nested random 
slope for a linear trend over time in the part of the random effect, was 
implemented to describe the situation. This model was selected based on two 
popular selection criteria: Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) and Bayesian 
Information Criterion (BIC).
RESULTS: The LMMs analysis results demonstrated statistically significant 
variations in IMR across different districts and over time. Examining the 
district-specific area under the logarithm of the IMR curves yielded valuable 
insights into the disparities in IMR among different districts and regions. 
Furthermore, a significant inverse relationship was observed between IMR and 
life expectancy at birth, underscoring the significance of mitigating IMR as a 
means to enhance population health outcomes.
CONCLUSION: This study accentuates district-wise and temporal variability when 
modelling IMR data and highlights regional heterogeneity in infant mortality 
rates in Bangladesh. Area-based programmes should be created for mothers 
residing in locations with a higher risk of IMR. Further research can examine 
