£20,000/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Our study indicates that ESG is highly cost effective versus LM 
alone for the treatment of adults with class II obesity in England.

© 2023. Crown.

DOI: 10.1038/s41366-023-01374-6
PMCID: PMC10599990
PMID: 37674032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JK and BH hold consulting contracts with Apollo 
Endosurgery UK Ltd. VM has no financial interests to declare. FON is an employee 
of Apollo Endosurgery UK Ltd which funded the study. LE, WD, and EC are 
employees of FIECON UK Ltd which received payment from Apollo Endosurgery to 
conduct the study. SA has received speaker honorarium and research grant funding 
from Johnson & Johnson and support for attendance at academic meetings from Novo 
Nordisk.


686. BMC Prim Care. 2023 Sep 6;24(1):179. doi: 10.1186/s12875-023-02142-1.

Determinants of access to general practice in a shared care model for people 
living with HIV: a qualitive study of patients' perspectives in an Australian 
rural community.

Cunningham J(1), Bailie J(2)(3), Warner S(1), Condon A(1), Cheung D(1), Minc 
A(4), Herbert S(4), Edmiston N(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(2)University Centre for Rural Health, The University of Sydney, Lismore, 
Australia.
(3)School of Public Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(4)Northern New South Wales Sexual Health Service, North Coast Public Health, 
Mid North Coast Local Health District, Lismore, Australia.
(5)University Centre for Rural Health, The University of Sydney, Lismore, 
Australia. n.edmiston@westernsydney.edu.au.
(6)Northern New South Wales Sexual Health Service, North Coast Public Health, 
Mid North Coast Local Health District, Lismore, Australia. 
n.edmiston@westernsydney.edu.au.
(7)School of Medicine, Western Sydney University, Campbelltown, Australia. 
n.edmiston@westernsydney.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Improved management of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) has 
resulted in improved life expectancy for people living with HIV and an ageing 
population with a significant comorbidity burden. Shared care models, involving 
the co-ordinated liaison between general practitioners and specialist 
physicians, have been advocated for in Australia to provide comprehensive care. 
People living with HIV in rural areas have reduced access to general practice 
and therefore shared care. This study explores the perspectives of people living 
with HIV on the barriers and enablers to accessing shared care in an Australian 
rural setting.
METHODS: In this qualitative study, semi-structured interviews were conducted 
with adults living with HIV who either resided in or accessed care in a rural 
area of Australia. Interviews were conducted via video conferencing, phone or 
face-to-face. Transcripts were imported into NVivo, coded and analysed in 
alignment with a conceptual framework of healthcare access defined by Levesque 
and colleagues.
RESULTS: Thirteen interviews were conducted in total. Participants' narratives 
demonstrated the substantial influence of accessibility to general practice on 
their ability to engage in effective shared care. Challenges included the 
perception that general practitioners would not provide additive value to 
participants' care, which restricted the ability to both seek and engage in the 
shared care model. Healthcare beliefs, expectations and experiences with stigma 
led participants to prioritise the perceived interpersonal qualities of 
specialist care above a shared care system. Access to shared care was 
facilitated by continuity of care in general practice but logistical factors 
such as affordability, transport and availability impacted the ability to access 
regular high-quality healthcare.
CONCLUSIONS: Navigating patient priorities and anticipated stigma in general 
practice within the resource limitations of rural healthcare were barriers to 
effective shared care. General practitioners' ability to build rapport and 
long-term relationships with participants was instrumental in the perception of 
valuable care. Strategies are required to secure continuity of care with 
interpersonally skilled general practitioners to ensure provision of quality 
primary care for people living with HIV, which can be supported by specialist 
physicians in a shared care model.

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s12875-023-02142-1
PMCID: PMC10483738
PMID: 37674116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


687. Asian Cardiovasc Thorac Ann. 2023 Oct;31(8):706-722. doi: 
10.1177/02184923231200695. Epub 2023 Sep 7.

Global, regional, and national incidence, mortality, and disability-adjusted 
life years of non-rheumatic valvular heart disease and trend analysis from 1990 
to 2019: Results from the Global Burden of Disease study 2019.

Wang K(1), Geng B(1), Shen Q(1), Wang Y(1), Shi J(1), Dong N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, China.

BACKGROUND: In the context of the population growing and aging worldwide, the 
incidence of non-rheumatic valvular heart disease increased rapidly. This study 
aimed to describe the burden of non-rheumatic valvular heart disease, providing 
an up-to-date and comprehensive analysis on the global and regional levels and 
time trends from 1900 to 2019.
METHODS: The Global Burden of Disease 2019 was used to obtain data for this 
analysis. Non-rheumatic valvular heart disease in the Global Burden of Disease 
study includes both non-rheumatic calcific aortic valve disease and 
non-rheumatic degenerative mitral valve disease. The incidence, mortality, and 
disability-adjusted life year in 204 countries from 1990 to 2019 were analyzed 
by location, year, sex, age, and socio-demographic index. Estimated annual 
percentage change was calculated to represent the temporal trends from 1990 to 
2019. Spearman's rank order correlation was used to determine the correlation 
between socio-demographic index and the incidence and burden of non-rheumatic 
valvular heart disease.
RESULTS: Globally, there were 1.65 million (95% uncertainty interval, 1.56-1.76 
million) incident cases, 0.16 million (95% uncertainty interval, 0.14-0.18 
million) death cases, and 2.79 million (95% uncertainty interval, 2.52-3.31 
million) disability-adjusted life years of non-rheumatic valvular heart disease. 
Compared with 1990, the number of incident cases, death cases, and 
disability-adjusted life years in 2019 increased by 104.58%, 210.60%, and 
167.62%, respectively, the age-standardized incidence rate (estimated annual 
percentage change, 0.39; 95% confidence interval, 0.29 to 0.49) increased due to 
population growth, and the age-standardized death rates (estimated annual 
percentage change, -0.32; 95% confidence interval, -0.39 to -0.25) and 
age-standardized disability-adjusted life year rate (estimated annual percentage 
change, -0.81; 95% confidence interval, -0.87 to -0.74) decreased during this 
period. Regarding the socio-demographic index, the highest age-standardized 
incidence, death, and disability-adjusted life year rates of non-rheumatic 
valvular heart disease were found in high-socio-demographic index countries in 
2019. Meantime, the age-standardized incidence rate remained increased from 1990 
to 2019, while significant decreases were found in the age-standardized death 
rate and age-standardized disability-adjusted life year rate. Females have 
higher age-standardized incidence rate, while higher age-standardized death rate 
and age-standardized disability-adjusted life year rate belong to males globally 
during the period of 1990-2019. Increasing trends were observed for both 
incidence, death, and disability-adjusted life year rates with age. High 
systolic blood pressure was the leading cause for non-rheumatic valvular heart 
disease across all ages.
CONCLUSIONS: From 1990 to 2019, the age-standardized incidence rate of 
non-rheumatic valvular heart disease remained increased, while age-standardized 
death rate and age-standardized disability-adjusted life year rate decreased, 
resulting from the growing population worldwide and improving medical resources. 
The aged, who has high systolic blood pressure and diet high in sodium, should 
pay more attention to, especially in high-socio-demographic index regions. With 
the population aging, the number of patients who require heart valve replacement 
is estimated to increase significantly in the future. Effective measures are 
warranted to control and treat the incidence and burden of non-rheumatic 
valvular heart disease.

DOI: 10.1177/02184923231200695
PMID: 37674443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Front Nephrol. 2022 Jun 15;2:916308. doi: 10.3389/fneph.2022.916308.
eCollection  2022.

Renal Health Benefits of Rural City Planning in Japan.

Nagai K(1)(2), Koo Yuk Cheong D(3), Ueda A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Hitachi General Hospital, Hitachi, Japan.
(2)Department of Nephrology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tsukuba, 
Tsukuba, Japan.
(3)Center for Inflammatory Diseases, Department of Medicine, Monash University, 
Clayton, VIC, Australia.

Progression of chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a substantial threat because it 
is associated with reduced healthy life expectancy and quality of life, and 
increase in economic burden. Research indicates people with nondialysis CKD 
often have lower physical functioning and that improvement of physical activity 
may contribute to maintaining renal health. Another issue with the current 
treatment of CKD is that the synergistic effects of rural depopulation due to 
aging and uncontrolled rural city sprawling will increase the number of 
under-served healthcare areas. To ensure the quality of renal health care, 
hospital integration is desirable, under the condition of reconstruction of the 
public transport system for physically and socially vulnerable people. Recently, 
medical and non-medical scientists advocate the challenge of city planning for 
population health. The links between city design and health such as 
cardiovascular disease, obesity, type 2 diabetes and mental disorders, have been 
widely studied, except for renal health. Based on our experience in a Kidney and 
Lifestyle-related Disease Center, we propose the idea that city planning be 
prioritized to improve renal health through two main streams: 1) Improve 
physical status by use of public and active transportation including daily 
walking and cycling; and 2) Equal accessibility to renal health services. Many 
countries, including Japan, have enacted plans and public policy initiatives 
that encourage increased levels of physical activity. We should focus on the 
impact of such movement on renal as well as general health.

Copyright © 2022 Nagai, Koo Yuk Cheong and Ueda.

DOI: 10.3389/fneph.2022.916308
PMCID: PMC10479572
PMID: 37675024

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


689. Ther Adv Neurol Disord. 2023 Sep 4;16:17562864231193530. doi: 
10.1177/17562864231193530. eCollection 2023.

Lipid profile with eslicarbazepine acetate and carbamazepine monotherapy in 
adult patients with newly diagnosed focal seizures: post hoc analysis of a phase 
III trial and open-label extension study.

Trinka E(1)(2)(3), Rocamora R(4)(5)(6), Chaves J(7), Koepp MJ(8)(9), Rüegg 
S(10), Holtkamp M(11), Moreira J(12), Fonseca MM(12), Castilla-Fernández G(13), 
Ikedo F(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Christian-Doppler University Hospital, Paracelsus 
Medical University, Centre for Cognitive Neuroscience, Member of the European 
Reference Centre EpiCARE, Ignaz Harrerstrasse 79, Salzburg A-5020, Austria.
(2)Neuroscience Institute, Christian-Doppler University Hospital, Paracelsus 
Medical University, Centre for Cognitive Neuroscience, Salzburg, Austria.
(3)Institute of Public Health, Medical Decision-Making and HTA, UMIT - Private 
University for Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and Technology, Hall in 
Tyrol, Austria.
(4)Hospital del Mar Medical Research Institute, Barcelona Spain.
(5)Epilepsy Monitoring Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital del Mar, 
Barcelona, Member of the European Reference Centre EpiCARE, Spain.
(6)Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(7)Department of Neurology, Hospital Santo António, Centro Hospitalar 
Universitário do Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(8)Department of Clinical and Experimental Epilepsy, UCL Queen Square Institute 
of Neurology, London, UK.
(9)Chalfont Centre for Epilepsy, Chalfont St Peter, UK.
(10)Department of Neurology, Hospital of the University of Basel and University 
of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(11)Department of Neurology, Epilepsy-Center Berlin-Brandenburg, Charité - 
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(12)Bial - Portela & Cª, S.A., Coronado, Portugal.
(13)Bial R&D Investments, S.A., Coronado, Portugal.

BACKGROUND: Antiseizure medications can have negative effects on plasma lipid 
levels.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate plasma lipid changes in patients with newly diagnosed 
focal epilepsy treated with eslicarbazepine acetate (ESL) or controlled-release 
carbamazepine (CBZ-CR) monotherapy during a phase III, randomized, double-blind 
(DB) trial and 2 years of ESL treatment in an open-label extension (OLE).
DESIGN: Post hoc analysis of a phase III trial and OLE study.
METHODS: Proportions of patients with elevated levels of total cholesterol and 
low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol were assessed at DB baseline, OLE 
baseline (last visit of DB trial), and end of OLE.
RESULTS: A total of 184 patients received ESL monotherapy during the OLE: 96 
received ESL monotherapy in the DB trial and 88 patients received CBZ-CR 
monotherapy. The proportions of patients with elevated total cholesterol and LDL 
cholesterol increased significantly during the DB trial in those treated with 
CBZ-CR monotherapy [total cholesterol, +14.9% (p < 0.001); LDL cholesterol, 
+11.5% (p = 0.012)] but decreased significantly after switching to ESL 
monotherapy in the OLE [total cholesterol, -15.3% (p = 0.008); LDL cholesterol, 
-11.1% (p = 0.021)]. No significant changes were observed in those treated with 
ESL monotherapy during the DB trial and OLE. At the end of the DB trial, 
between-group differences (ESL-CBZ-CR) in the proportions of patients with 
elevated total and LDL cholesterol were -13.6% (p = 0.037) and -12.3% 
(p = 0.061), respectively; at the end of the OLE, these between-group 
differences were -6.0% (p = 0.360) and -0.6% (p = 1.000), respectively.
CONCLUSION: A lower proportion of patients with newly diagnosed focal epilepsy 
had increased levels of total and LDL cholesterol, compared to baseline, 
following monotherapy with ESL versus CBZ-CR; after switching from CBZ-CR to 
ESL, the proportions of patients with increased levels decreased significantly.
REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01162460/NCT02484001; EudraCT 
2009-011135-13/2015-001243-36.

Plain Language Summary: The impact of treatment with either eslicarbazepine 
acetate or controlled-release carbamazepine on cholesterol levels in patients 
with newly diagnosed focal epilepsy Patients with epilepsy have an increased 
risk of having cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases (e.g., myocardial 
infarction and stroke). Treatment with antiseizure medications can have a 
negative effect on blood cholesterol levels [such as total cholesterol and 
low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol], which can further increase the risk 
of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. We examined the impact of 
monotherapy treatment (i.e., treatment with only one antiseizure medication) 
using either eslicarbazepine acetate (ESL) or a controlled-release formulation 
of carbamazepine (CBZ-CR) in 184 patients with newly diagnosed focal epilepsy 
(ESL, 96 patients; CBZ-CR, 88 patients). Patients received monotherapy with ESL 
or CBZ-CR for approximately 1 year in a phase III clinical trial. After this, 
the patients could continue into a 2-year extension study during which they all 
received monotherapy with ESL. We assessed the proportions of patients with 
elevated levels of total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol at the beginning and 
end of the phase III trial, and at the end of the extension study. At the 
beginning of the phase III trial, the proportions of patients with elevated 
total cholesterol and elevated LDL cholesterol were similar between treatment 
groups. During the phase III trial, the proportions of patients with elevated 
total cholesterol and elevated LDL cholesterol increased in those treated with 
CBZ-CR monotherapy (total cholesterol, +14.9%; LDL cholesterol, +11.5%) but 
decreased after switching to ESL monotherapy in the extension study (total 
cholesterol, −15.3%; LDL cholesterol, −11.1%). By contrast, the proportions of 
patients with elevated levels of total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol remained 
relatively stable in those treated with ESL monotherapy during the phase III 
trial and extension study. These findings indicate that ESL monotherapy may be 
an appropriate treatment option for patients with newly diagnosed focal epilepsy 
who either already have, or who are at risk of developing, high levels of 
cholesterol, since this may reduce their likelihood of having cardiovascular and 
cerebrovascular diseases.

© The Author(s), 2023.

DOI: 10.1177/17562864231193530
PMCID: PMC10478566
PMID: 37675038

Conflict of interest statement: ET reports personal fees from EVER Pharma, 
Marinus, Arvelle, Angelini, Argenx, Medtronic, Bial-Portela & Cª, NewBridge, GL 
Pharma, GlaxoSmithKline, Boehringer Ingelheim, LivaNova, Eisai, UCB, Biogen, 
Sanofi, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, and Actavis. His institution received grants from 
Biogen, UCB Pharma, Eisai, Red Bull, Merck, Bayer, the European Union, FWF 
Osterreichischer Fond zur Wissenschaftsforderung, Bundesministerium für 
Wissenschaft und Forschung, and Jubiläumsfond der Österreichischen Nationalbank. 
RR is a consultant for Eisai, Bial, UCB, GlaxoSmithKline and Shire, and receives 
grant and research support from Bial, Eisai, and UCB. JC has received speaker’s 
honoraria and/or consultancy fees from Bial and Eisai and was granted with a 
Tecnifar Bursary. MJK reports personal fees as speaker or consultant from 
Arvelle, BIAL, Eisai, GW Pharmaceuticals, Novartis and UCB Pharma. He holds 
stocks for Prevep. MJK or his institution received grants from UCB Pharma, 
Eisai, Arvelle/Angelini, the European Union, Wellcome Trust and Medical Research 
Council. SR received unconditional research grants from UCB-pharma, honoraria 
from serving on the scientific advisory boards of Arvelle/Angelini, Bial, Eisai, 
GW/Jazz Pharmaceuticals, and UCB Pharma, and from serving as a consultant for 
Arvelle/Angelini, Eisai, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Pfizer, Novartis, Sandoz, and UCB 
Pharma. He does not hold any stocks of any pharmaceutical industries or 
manufacturers of medical devices. He received funding from UCB Pharma, and the 
Swiss National Science Foundation. MH received speaker’s honoraria and/or 
consultancy fees from Angelini/Arvelle, Bial, Desitin, Eisai, GW 
Pharmaceuticals/Jazz, Neuraxpharm, UCB, and Zogenix with the last 3 years. JM, 
MMF and GCF are current employees of Bial – Portela & Cª, S.A. FI was an 
employee of Bial – Portela & Cª, S.A. at the time this study was conducted but 
is currently employed at Neuroscience Clinical Development, Biopharmaceuticals 
R&D, AstraZeneca, Cambridge, UK.


690. J Med Life. 2023 Jun;16(6):895-903. doi: 10.25122/jml-2023-0110.

Exploring variations in gait patterns and joint motion characteristics in 
school-aged children across different walking speeds: a comprehensive motion 
analysis study.

Bari MA(1), Mir HN(1), Parrey JA(1), Ateeq A(2), Ajhar A(1), Al Muslem WH(3), 
Nuhmani S(3), Alduhishy A(3), Alsubaiei ME(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Education, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, India.
(2)Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital, Aligarh Muslim University, 
Aligarh, India.
(3)Department of Physical Therapy, College of Applied Medical Sciences, Imam 
Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Dammam, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

This study aimed to investigate differences in gait patterns among individuals 
with different walking speeds and identify the range of motion (ROM) and angular 
velocity for various joints during gait. Forty-five schoolchildren were randomly 
selected for this study. To capture their walking patterns, two FDR-AX700 4K HDR 
camcorders were positioned to observe the predetermined walkway. Each 
participant completed a 5-meter walk at various speeds, including slow, normal, 
and fast, while maintaining a straight stride. There were significantly higher 
ROM and angular velocity (p<0.05) at the hip, knee, and ankle joints across most 
stages of walking at a faster speed compared to slow and normal speeds. At the 
same time, the angular velocity was significantly higher at the hip joint during 
hip extension terminal stance at normal speed compared to slow and fast speeds 
(p<0.05, ƞ2 =0.74). Similarly, the ROM of knee flexion swing, ankle plantar 
flexion loading response, and ankle dorsiflexion midswing angular velocity were 
significantly higher during normal walking speed (p<0.05). Conversely, 
slow-speed walking showed significantly higher ROM at knee extension terminal 
swing (ƞ2=0.52) and ankle dorsiflexion terminal stance (ƞ2=0.78) (p<0.05). The 
results indicate that individuals with different walking speeds exhibit 
significant differences in gait patterns. Slower walking speeds resulted in 
lower gait velocity and different joint motions compared to faster walking 
speeds.

©2023 JOURNAL of MEDICINE and LIFE.

DOI: 10.25122/jml-2023-0110
PMCID: PMC10478655
PMID: 37675178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


691. Front Oncol. 2023 Aug 22;13:1137849. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1137849.
eCollection  2023.

Intracranial meningiomas: an update of the 2021 World Health Organization 
classifications and review of management with a focus on radiation therapy.

Yarabarla V(1), Mylarapu A(2), Han TJ(3), McGovern SL(4), Raza SM(5), Beckham 
TH(4).

Author information:
(1)Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine, Suwanee, GA, United States.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Advent Health Redmond, Rome, GA, United 
States.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, WellSpan Health, York, PA, United States.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX, United States.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX, United States.

Meningiomas account for approximately one third of all primary intracranial 
tumors. Arising from the cells of the arachnoid mater, these neoplasms are found 
along meningeal surfaces within the calvarium and spinal canal. Many are 
discovered incidentally, and most are idiopathic, although risk factors 
associated with meningioma development include age, sex, prior radiation 
exposure, and familial genetic diseases. The World Health Organization grading 
system is based on histologic criteria, and are as follows: grade 1 meningiomas, 
a benign subtype; grade 2 meningiomas, which are of intermediately aggressive 
behavior and usually manifest histologic atypia; and grade 3, which demonstrate 
aggressive malignant behavior. Management is heavily dependent on tumor 
location, grade, and symptomatology. While many imaging-defined low grade 
appearing meningiomas are suitable for observation with serial imaging, others 
require aggressive management with surgery and adjuvant radiotherapy. For 
patients needing intervention, surgery is the optimal definitive approach with 
adjuvant radiation therapy guided by extent of resection, tumor grade, and 
location in addition to patient specific factors such as life expectancy. For 
grade 1 lesions, radiation can also be used as a monotherapy in the form of 
stereotactic radiosurgery or standard fractionated radiation therapy depending 
on tumor size, anatomic location, and proximity to dose-limiting organs at risk. 
Optimal management is paramount because of the generally long life-expectancy of 
patients with meningioma and the morbidity that can arise from tumor growth and 
recurrence as well as therapy itself.

Copyright © 2023 Yarabarla, Mylarapu, Han, McGovern, Raza and Beckham.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1137849
PMCID: PMC10477988
PMID: 37675219

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


692. Stroke. 2023 Nov;54(11):2724-2736. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.123.044113. Epub
2023  Sep 7.

Study of Rivaroxaban for Cerebral Venous Thrombosis: A Randomized Controlled 
Feasibility Trial Comparing Anticoagulation With Rivaroxaban to Standard-of-Care 
in Symptomatic Cerebral Venous Thrombosis.

Field TS(1), Dizonno V(1), Almekhlafi MA(2), Bala F(2)(3), Alhabli I(2), Wong 
H(4), Norena M(4), Villaluna MK(1), King-Azote P(1), Ratnaweera N(1), Mancini 
S(1), Van Gaal SC(1), Wilson LK(1), Graham BR(5), Sposato LA(6), Blacquiere 
D(7), Dewar BM(7), Boulos MI(8), Buck BH(9), Odier C(10), Perera KS(11), Pikula 
A(12), Tkach A(13), Medvedev G(14), Canfield C(15), Mortenson WB(16), Nadeau 
JO(17), Alshimemeri S(18), Benavente OR(1), Demchuk AM(2), Dowlatshahi D(7), 
Lanthier S(19), Lee AYY(20), Mandzia J(6), Suryanarayan D(21), Weitz JI(22), 
Hill MD(2); SECRET Investigators.

Collaborators: Hill M, Villaluna Murray K, Jones A, Matsubara L, O'Neill Z, Park 
S, Yuan M, Saluzzi M, Dueck A, McKibben KI, Zhang Q, Benavente Chair O, Butcher 
Chair K, Bushnell C, de Sousa DA, Hill M, Benavente O, Wilson DL, Benavente O, 
Lloret M, Lau HL, Maclean G, Mann S, Murphy C, Smith J, Teal P, Tse MYD, Yip S, 
Naidoo V, Brar J, Chen S, Horton M, Hill M, Save S, Althubait S, Bogiatzi C, 
Boyko M, Chatuverdi S, Coutts S, Ganesh A, Ghavami K, Harrison E, Hu S, Jambula 
A, Joundi R, Kenney C, Klein G, Lin K, Mansoor S, Marko M, Ryckborst K, Sage K, 
Singh N, Tse MYD, Wadhwa A, Wasiliw S, Graham B, Bhavsar S, Bold K, Maley S, 
Urroz L, Foster K, Junk E, Corley S, Gardner A, McMullen J, Whelan R, Duff W, 
Tyson C, Cooley R, Hunter G, Magee F, Wasyliw S, Beauchamp MB, Lambourn L, Ayan 
D, Khaw A, Mai L, Bullrich MB, Fridman S, Daham Z, Fahad R, Shamy M, Stotts G, 
Fatadawala I, Lopes K, Southwell A, Bhandari V, Fitzpatrick T, Gladstone D, 
Hopyan J, Kamra M, Khosravani H, Liddy AM, Liu Z, Popel N, Sivakumar K, Swartz 
R, Yu A, Fairall P, Ahmed F, Jabs J, White L, Piquette L, Shepherd R, Ishaque N, 
Odier C, Simon NS, Lapierre M, Bereznyakova O, Caporuscio CB, Cauchon F, Côté V, 
Denault N, Desciantre Y, Gauthier L, Gioia L, Jaquin G, Jadil N, Lim S, Poppe A, 
Rodriguez C, Rodriguez MC, Stapf C, Vandervelde C, Ng KHK, Oczkowski W, Lourenco 
D, Moreau C, Jolie A, Bhagraith V, Katsanos A, de Sa Boasquevisque D, Ratnayake 
K, McLelland M, Adderly C, Elamin E, Galloway C, Smith M, Topor T, Singh S, To 
W, Akthar F, Casaubon L, Cayley A, Crelling L, Del Campo M, Gao M, Hanna C, 
Khalid M, Pham N, Schaafsma J, Silver F, Stewart T, Tiopanas P, Wigner R, 
Williams J.

Author information:
(1)Vancouver Stroke Program, Division of Neurology (T.S.F., V.D., M.K.V., 
P.K-A., N.R., S.M., S.C.V.G., L.K.W., O.R.B.), University of British Columbia, 
Canada.
(2)Department of Clinical Neurosciences and Radiology, Cumming School of 
Medicine, University of Calgary, Canada (M.A.A., F.B., I.A., A.M.D., M.D.H.).
(3)Department of Radiology, Tours University Hospital, France (F.B.).
(4)School of Population and Public Health, and Centre for Health Outcomes and 
Evaluative Sciences (H.W., M.N.), University of British Columbia, Canada.
(5)Division of Neurology, University of Saskatchewan College of Medicine, 
Saskatoon, Canada (B.R.G.).
(6)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Schulich School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, University of Western Ontario, London, Canada (L.A.S., J.M.).
(7)Ottawa Stroke Program, Ottawa Hospital Research institute, University of 
Ottawa, Canada (D.B., B.M.D., D.D.).
(8)Sunnybrook Research Institute, Division of Neurology (M.I.B.), University 
Health Network, University of Toronto, Canada.
(9)Division of Neurology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada (B.H.B.).
(10)Département de Neurosciences, Centre Hospitalier d'Université de Montréal, 
Université de Montréal, Canada (C.O.).
(11)Population Health Research Institute and Division of Neurology, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Canada (K.S.P.).
(12)Krembil Brain Institute (A.P.), University Health Network, University of 
Toronto, Canada.
(13)Kelowna General Hospital, Interior Health Authority, Canada (A.T.).
(14)Royal Columbian Hospital, Fraser Health Authority, New Westminster, Canada 
(G.M.).
(15)Department of Family Practice, Innovation Support Unit (C.C.), University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(16)Department of Occupational Science and Occupational Therapy (W.B.M.), 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(17)Marlborough Medical Clinic, Calgary, Canada (J.O.N.).
(18)Division of Neurology, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia (S.A.).
(19)Hôpital de Sacre-Coeur de Montréal, Département de Neurosciences, Université 
de Montréal, Canada (S.L.).
(20)Division of Hematology (A.Y.Y.L.), University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, Canada.
(21)Division of Hematology, Cumming School of Medicine (D.S.), University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(22)Thrombosis and Atherosclerosis Research Institute, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Canada (J.I.W.).

BACKGROUND: Emerging data suggest that direct oral anticoagulants may be a 
suitable choice for anticoagulation for cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT). 
However, conducting high-quality trials in CVT is challenging as it is a rare 
disease with low rates of adverse outcomes such as major bleeding and functional 
dependence. To facilitate the design of future CVT trials, SECRET (Study of 
Rivaroxaban for Cerebral Venous Thrombosis) assessed (1) the feasibility of 
recruitment, (2) the safety of rivaroxaban compared with standard-of-care 
anticoagulation, and (3) patient-centered functional outcomes.
METHODS: This was a phase II, prospective, open-label blinded-end point 1:1 
randomized trial conducted at 12 Canadian centers. Participants were aged ≥18 
years, within 14 days of a new diagnosis of symptomatic CVT, and suitable for 
oral anticoagulation; they were randomized to receive rivaroxaban 20 mg daily, 
or standard-of-care anticoagulation (warfarin, target international normalized 
ratio, 2.0-3.0, or low-molecular-weight heparin) for 180 days, with optional 
extension up to 365 days. Primary outcomes were annual rate of recruitment 
(feasibility); and a composite of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage, major 
extracranial hemorrhage, or mortality at 180 days (safety). Secondary outcomes 
included recurrent venous thromboembolism, recanalization, clinically relevant 
nonmajor bleeding, and functional and patient-reported outcomes (modified Rankin 
Scale, quality of life, headache, mood, fatigue, and cognition) at days 180 and 
365.
RESULTS: Fifty-five participants were randomized. The rate of recruitment was 
21.3 participants/year; 57% of eligible candidates consented. Median age was 
48.0 years (interquartile range, 38.5-73.2); 66% were female. There was 1 
primary event (symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage), 2 clinically relevant 
nonmajor bleeding events, and 1 recurrent CVT by day 180, all in the rivaroxaban 
group. All participants in both arms had at least partial recanalization by day 
180. At enrollment, both groups on average reported reduced quality of life, low 
mood, fatigue, and headache with impaired cognitive performance. All metrics 
improved markedly by day 180.
CONCLUSIONS: Recruitment targets were reached, but many eligible participants 
declined randomization. There were numerically more bleeding events in patients 
taking rivaroxaban compared with control, but rates of bleeding and recurrent 
venous thromboembolism were low overall and in keeping with previous studies. 
Participants had symptoms affecting their well-being at enrollment but improved 
over time.
REGISTRATION: URL: https://www.
CLINICALTRIALS: gov; Unique identifier: NCT03178864.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.123.044113
PMCID: PMC10615774
PMID: 37675613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures Dr Boulos reports compensation from 
Eisai, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, and Paladin Laboratories for consultant services, 
and a gift from Braebon Medical Corporation. Dr Demchuk reports compensation 
from Boehringer Ingleheim, HLS Pharmaceuticals, Hoffmann-Laroche, Metronic 
NovaSignal, and Servier for consultant services, other from AstraZeneca, Data 
Safety Monitoring Board participation with Philips, and stock and a patent for 
stroke imaging software with Circle NVI. Dr Dowlatshahi reports compensation 
from AstraZeneca for consultant services. Dr Field reports compensation from 
AstraZeneca, HLS Therapeutics, Servier, Bristol Myers Squibb Pfizer, and Roche 
for consultant services, from the Canadian Medical Protective Association as an 
Expert Witness, and is on the board of DESTINE Health. M.D. Hill reports 
compensation for Brainsgate Ltd for consultant services, grants from the 
Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Medtronic, Microvention Inc, NoNO Inc, 
and Boehringer Ingleheim, and end point review committee work for Merck. Dr 
Lanthier reports compensation from Bayer, Bristol Myers Squibb Pfizer, and 
Servier for consultant services. Dr Lee reports compensation from Bayer and 
Bristol Myers Squibb for consultant services. Dr Sposato reports compensation 
from Bayer, Boehringer Ingleheim, Daiichi Sanko Ltd and Pfizer for consultant 
services. Dr Weitz reports compensation from Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Anthos, 
Bayer, Boehringer Ingleheim, Bristol myers Squibb, Daiichi Sankyo Ltd, Ionis 
Pharmaceuticals, Janssen Global Services LLC, Merck Company Foundation, 
Novartis, Pfizer, and Portola Pharmaceuticals for consult services. The other 
authors report no conflicts.


693. Eur J Epidemiol. 2023 Nov;38(11):1141-1152. doi: 10.1007/s10654-023-01039-8.
 Epub 2023 Sep 7.

Gains in life expectancy from decreasing cardiovascular disease and cancer 
mortality - an analysis of 28 European countries 1995-2019.

Wéber A(1)(2), Laversanne M(3), Nagy P(4)(5)(6), Kenessey I(7)(8), Soerjomataram 
I(3), Bray F(3).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Surveillance Branch, International Agency for Research on Cancer, 
Lyon, France. weber.andras@oncol.hu.
(2)Hungarian National Cancer Registry and National Tumor Biology Laboratory, 
National Institute of Oncology, Budapest, Hungary. weber.andras@oncol.hu.
(3)Cancer Surveillance Branch, International Agency for Research on Cancer, 
Lyon, France.
(4)Department of Molecular Immunology and Toxicology and the National Tumor 
Biology Laboratory, National Institute of Oncology, Budapest, Hungary.
(5)Department of Anatomy and Histology, Laboratory of Redox Biology, University 
of Veterinary Medicine, Budapest, Hungary.
(6)Chemistry Institute, University of Debrecen, Debrecen, Hungary.
(7)Hungarian National Cancer Registry and National Tumor Biology Laboratory, 
National Institute of Oncology, Budapest, Hungary.
(8)Department of Pathology, Forensic and Insurance Medicine, Semmelweis 
University, Budapest, Hungary.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy (LE) is an indicator of societal progress among 
rapidly aging populations. In recent decades, the displacement of deaths from 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cancer have been key drivers in further 
extending LE on the continent, though improvements vary markedly by country, 
sex, and over time. This study provides a comparative overview of the 
age-specific contributions of CVD and cancer to increasing LE in the 27 European 
Union member states, plus the U.K.
METHODS: Cause-by-age decompositions of national changes in LE were conducted 
for the years 1995-1999 and 2015-2019 based on the standard approach of multiple 
decrement life tables to quantify the relative impact over time. The 
contributions of CVD and cancer mortality changes to differences in LE were 
computed by sex and age for each of the 28 countries. We examine the difference 
between the member states before 2004 ("founding countries") and those which 
accessed the EU after 2004 ("A10 countries").
RESULTS: Among men, declines in CVD mortality in the founding countries of the 
EU were larger contributors to increasing LE over the last decades than 
malignant neoplasms: 2.26 years were gained by CVD declines versus 1.07 years 
for cancer, with 2.23 and 0.84 years gained in A10 countries, respectively. 
Among women in founding countries, 1.81 and 0.54 additional life years were 
attributable to CVD and cancer mortality declines, respectively, while in A10 
countries, the corresponding values were 2.33 and 0.37 years. Lung and stomach 
cancer in men, and breast cancer in women were key drivers of gains in LE due to 
cancer overall, though rising mortality rates from lung cancer diminished the 
potential impact of increasing female LE in both EU founding (e.g., France, 
Spain, and Sweden) and A10 countries (e.g., Croatia, Hungary, and Slovenia), 
notably among cohorts aged 55-70 years. Over the 25 years, the LE gap between 
the two sets of countries narrowed from 6.22 to 5.59 years in men, and from 4.03 
to 3.12 years for women, with diminishing female mortality from CVD as a 
determinative contributor.
CONCLUSION: This study underscores the continued existence of an East-West 
divide in life expectancy across the EU27 + 1, evident on benchmarking the 
founding vs. A10 countries. In EU founding countries, continuous economic growth 
alongside improved health care, health promotion and protection policies have 
contributed to steady declines in mortality from chronic diseases, leading to 
increases in life expectancy. In contrast, less favourable mortality trends in 
the EU A10 countries indicate greater economic and health care challenges, and a 
failure to implement effective health policies.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-023-01039-8
PMCID: PMC10663201
PMID: 37676425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant financial or 
non-financial interests to disclose.


694. JAMA. 2023 Oct 3;330(13):1280-1282. doi: 10.1001/jama.2023.15820.

Frequency of Screening for Colorectal Cancer by Predicted Life Expectancy Among 
Adults 76-85 Years.

Deardorff WJ(1), Lu K(1), Jing B(1), Jeon SY(1), Boscardin WJ(1), Fung KZ(1), 
Lee SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)San Francisco Veterans Affairs Health Care System, San Francisco, California.

Comment in
    doi: 10.1001/jama.2021.6557.
    doi: 10.1001/jama.2021.6238.

Plain Language Summary: This study assesses whether colorectal cancer screening 
varied by predicted life expectancy in a national sample of Veterans Affairs 
patients aged 76 to 85 years.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2023.15820
PMCID: PMC10485741
PMID: 37676665

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None reported.


695. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2023 Nov;1529(1):14-20. doi: 10.1111/nyas.15061. Epub 2023
Sep  7.

Thalassemia and malignancies: Updates from the literature.

Hodroj MH(1), Taher A(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
American University of Beirut Medical Center, Beirut, Lebanon.

Thalassemia management has undergone significant development with the 
advancement in iron chelation therapy, which has led to a prolonged life 
expectancy. This has been accompanied by the emergence of several new 
morbidities and chronic diseases, including cancer. Over the years, multiple 
cases of solid and hematologic malignancies in thalassemia patients have been 
reported in the literature, with no clear mechanism for the development of 
cancer in these patients despite a number of potential mechanisms. However, the 
results of many studies have been contradictory regarding the risk of 
development of malignancies in thalassemia. The present review aims to discuss 
the available data on cancer and thalassemia in the literature, with the latest 
updates regarding possible malignancy development mechanisms, risks, and the 
most commonly reported types.

© 2023 The New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/nyas.15061
PMID: 37676814


696. Chin Med J (Engl). 2023 Oct 20;136(20):2442-2450. doi: 
10.1097/CM9.0000000000002839. Epub 2023 Sep 5.

Global and national burden of atherosclerosis from 1990 to 2019: trend analysis 
based on the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

Chen W(1)(2), Li Z(1), Zhao Y(1), Chen Y(1), Huang R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Beijing Friendship Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing 100053, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Longyan First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University, Longyan, Fujian 364000, China.

BACKGROUND: Atherosclerosis-related diseases represent significant health issues 
among adults globally. Despite their widespread impact, comprehensive data 
concerning the global and national burden and trends of these diseases remain 
sparse. Our objective is to examine the trends in the burden of atherosclerosis 
among adults from 1990 to 2019 at both global and national levels.
METHODS: We reported the average annual percentage changes (AAPCs) in 
prevalence, incidence, mortality, and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) of 
atherosclerosis-related diseases (ischemic heart disease [IHD], ischemic stroke, 
and peripheral arterial disease [PAD]) at the global and national levels among 
individuals based on a trend analysis of the Global Burden of Diseases Study 
(GBD) 2019. We further analyzed these global trends as a function of age, 
gender, and the social development index. We also used joinpoint regression 
analysis to identify the year with the most substantial changes in global 
trends.
RESULTS: Globally, the AAPC of IHD incidence rose from 1990 to 2019 (0.20; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 0.12-0.28), with substantial surges in 1995, 2001, 
2005, 2010, and 2017. Conversely, AAPC of IHD mortality rates exhibited a 
different trend until a rise in 2014. The AAPC of incidence rates of ischemic 
stroke and PAD also escalated during the same period, with respective 0.43 (95% 
CI, 0.39-0.48) and 0.13 (95% CI, 0.06-0.21). For ischemic stroke, both incidence 
and mortality soared in 2014, while PAD incidence declined in 1994 and 1998, 
then sharply climbed in 2016. Nationally, the Northern Mariana Islands 
experienced the steepest increase in IHD and PAD incidence and mortality between 
1990 and 2019. China saw a significant rise in ischemic stroke incidence, 
whereas the highest mortality rate increase occurred in Timor-Leste. By 
sociodemographic index (SDI) quintile, low-middle-, middle-, and high-middle-SDI 
countries all showed upward trends in IHD, ischemic stroke, and PAD incidence. 
Simultaneously, IHD and ischemic stroke mortality rates, as well as DALYs, 
dropped in the low-, high-middle-, and high-SDI nations. However, PAD mortality 
rates and DALYs saw an uptick across all SDI quintiles. Regarding age 
demographics, a global decrease in the AAPC IHD incidence as noted in 
individuals above 55 years old, in contrast to an increase in the 20-55 age 
group during this period. AAPC of mortality rates for IHD, ischemic stroke, and 
PAD decreased across all ages. The AAPC showed an increase in IHD incidence in 
both genders. Conversely, IHD's DALYs saw a reduction in both males and females. 
Ischemic stroke patterns mirrored these trends, whereas all measures for PAD 
exhibited growth for both sexes.
CONCLUSIONS: From 1990 to 2019, there was an overall increasing trend in the 
global incidence of all three clinical manifestations of atherosclerosis. 
Between 1990 and 2019, both the mortality rate and DALYs for IHD and ischemic 
stroke declined across all age groups. Overall, the burden of 
atherosclerosis-related diseases has not significantly decreased and even shows 
signs of trending upward. These findings strongly suggest that despite some 
progress made, efforts to control atherosclerosis diseases globally need to be 
intensified.

Copyright © 2023 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, 
Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.

DOI: 10.1097/CM9.0000000000002839
PMCID: PMC10586830
PMID: 37677929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


697. Cir Cir. 2023;91(4):439-445. doi: 10.24875/CIRU.22000443.

The relationship between results of coronary angiography, Mediterranean-type 
lifestyle, type D personality, and healthy life expectancy.

[Article in English]

Afşar F(1), Güler A(2), Yılmaz H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Dr. Siyami Ersek Thoracic and Cardiovascular 
Surgery Training and Research Hospital.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Istanbul Başakşehir Çam and Sakura City Hospital, 
University of Health Sciences.
(3)Department of Management, Istanbul 1st Region Public Hospitals Presidency. 
Istanbul, Turkey.

AIM: The aim of this study was to determine the relationship between coronary 
angiography results and Mediterranean-type lifestyle and type D personality.
METHODS: Mediterranean-type lifestyle index and type D personality scale were 
administered to 230 participants.
RESULTS: In univariate analysis according to coronary angiography results, a 
statistically significant effect was determined between the decision for 
treatment with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and diabetes mellitus, 
and total and subscale points of Mediterranean lifestyle index, and between the 
decision for treatment with bypass and body mass index, Mediterranean diet, 
physical activity, and total points. In multivariate analysis, there was 
determined to be an effect between the PCI and systolic pressure, and between 
bypass and body mass index and subscale of physical activity. When disease-free 
life expectancy was examined, there was seen to be a negative effect of smoking 
and low Mediterranean diet points for participants with PCI, and of smoking, 
presence of hypertension, family history, and high type D personal 
characteristics score for those with bypass decision.
CONCLUSION: The evidence-based recommendations for a Mediterranean-type 
lifestyle stated in cardiovascular disease (CVD) preventative guidelines may 
have a positive effect on the prevention of CVD, disability-free life, and 
mortality.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Este estudio se llevó a cabo para determinar la relación 
entre los resultados la angiografía coronaria y el estilo vida mediterráneo y 
los rasgos personalidad tipo D.
MÉTODO: El índice de estilo de vida de tipo mediterráneo y la escala de 
personalidad de tipo D se administraron a 230 participantes.
RESULTADOS: Según el resultado angiografía coronaria, subdimensiones 
intervención coronaria percutánea y diabetes y estilo de vida mediterráneo y 
puntajes totales en análisis univariante, circunvalación, cuanto a índice masa 
corporal, dieta estilo mediterráneo, actividad física y puntuación total; en 
análisis multivariado, se encontró que la intervención coronaria percutánea se 
asoció con la presión arterial sistólica, circunvalación con el índice masa 
corporal y subdimensión actividad física. Mirando la esperanza vida libre 
enfermedades, el tabaquismo y la baja puntuación la dieta tipo mediterránea del 
participante para el que se tomó la intervención coronaria percutánea, el índice 
masa corporal bajo, tabaquismo, hipertensión, los antecedentes familiares y los 
rasgos de personalidad tipo D altos del participante con la circunvalación 
afectan negativamente la esperanza de vida libre enfermedades.
CONCLUSIÓN: Como se indica en las pautas de prevención enfermedades 
cardiovasculares, el estilo vida mediterráneo puede tener efectos positivos en 
la prevención enfermedades cardiovasculares, discapacidad y mortalidad.

Copyright: © 2023 Permanyer.

DOI: 10.24875/CIRU.22000443
PMID: 37677937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Biomed J. 2023 Oct;46(5):100658. doi: 10.1016/j.bj.2023.100658. Epub 2023
Sep 5.

Patellar malalignment: A common disorder associated with knee pain.

Wu CC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung 
University, Taoyuan, Taiwan. Electronic address: ccwu@mail.cgu.edu.tw.

Pain-associated knee joint disorders are common in daily life. Practically, knee 
pain should be divided into the origin from the isolated tibiofemoral (TF), 
isolated patellofemoral (PF) joint, or a combination thereof. The TF joint 
controls the actions of level walking, while the PF joint controls knee 
flexion-extension. Owing to its sufficient inherent stability, non-traumatic 
disorders of the isolated TF joint in young individuals are uncommon. In 
contrast, because of its insufficient inherent stability, non-traumatic 
disorders of the isolated PF joint are common in young individuals. Patellar 
malalignment (PM) associated with knee pain is common in all age groups, and the 
most common predisposing factor is imbalanced peripatellar soft-tissue tension. 
The outward forces acting on the patella are caused by pulling from the 
quadriceps femoris during knee flexion to extension (manifested by the 
quadriceps angle [Q-angle]), and sliding backward of the iliotibial band (ITB) 
during knee extension to flexion. Once the muscle power of the vastus medialis 
(especially the vastus medialis obliquus [VMO]) decreases, which lowers the 
counteracting effect against outward forces, the patella displaces or rotates 
laterally. The reduced contact surface between the patella and the femoral 
condyle significantly increases the compressive pressure and injures the 
articular cartilage. Subsequently, progressive PF degeneration occurs. Although 
other factors may also cause PM, they are relatively uncommon. In principle, 
nonsurgical treatment of PM should be considered first, while surgical treatment 
should follow established indications. Some nonsurgical techniques are currently 
widely used that feature high satisfaction rates. Surgical techniques are 
continuously being developed, and their success rates have gradually improved. 
This study aimed to review the current literature for relevant studies and 
report related publications of the author's institution to emphasize the 
universality and importance of PM management. Conceptually, simply focusing on 
problems of the TF joint cannot treat all knee disorders.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bj.2023.100658
PMCID: PMC10550501
PMID: 37678711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The author declares that 
there are no conflicts of interest in this study.


699. Am J Kidney Dis. 2023 Sep 9:S0272-6386(23)00776-X. doi: 
10.1053/j.ajkd.2023.05.015. Online ahead of print.

Using Relative Survival to Estimate the Burden of Kidney Failure.

Stedman MR(1), Kurella Tamura M(2), Chertow GM(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, Stanford 
University, Stanford. Electronic address: mstedman@stanford.edu.
(2)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, Stanford 
University, Stanford; Geriatric Research and Education Clinical Center, Palo 
Alto VA Health Care System, Palo Alto, California.
(3)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, Stanford 
University, Stanford; Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, School 
of Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford.

RATIONALE & OBJECTIVE: Estimates of mortality from kidney failure are misleading 
because the mortality from kidney failure is inseparable from the mortality 
attributed to comorbid conditions. We sought to develop an alternative method to 
reduce the bias in estimating mortality due to kidney failure using life table 
methods.
STUDY DESIGN: Longitudinal cohort study.
SETTING & PARTICIPANTS: Using data from the US Renal Data System and the 
Medicare 5% sample, we identified an incident cohort of patients, age 66+, who 
first had kidney failure in 2009 and a similar general population cohort without 
kidney failure.
EXPOSURE: Kidney failure.
OUTCOME: Death.
ANALYTICAL APPROACH: We created comorbidity, age, sex, race, and year-specific 
life tables to estimate relative survival of patients with incident kidney 
failure and to attain an estimate of excess kidney failure-related deaths. 
Estimates were compared with those based on standard life tables (not adjusted 
for comorbidity).
RESULTS: The analysis included 31,944 adults with kidney failure with a mean age 
of 77±7 years. The 5-year relative survival was 31% using standard life tables 
(adjusted for age, sex, race, and year) versus 36% using life tables also 
adjusted for comorbidities. Compared with other chronic diseases, patients with 
kidney failure have among the lowest relative survival. Patients with incident 
kidney failure ages 66-70 and 76-80 have a survival comparable to adults without 
kidney failure roughly 86-90 and 91-95 years old, respectively.
LIMITATIONS: Relative survival estimates can be improved by narrowing the 
specificity of the covariates collected (eg, disease severity and ethnicity).
CONCLUSIONS: Estimates of survival relative to a matched general population 
partition the mortality due to kidney failure from other causes of death. 
Results highlight the immense burden of kidney failure on mortality and the 
importance of disease prevention efforts among older adults.
PLAIN-LANGUAGE SUMMARY: Estimates of death due to kidney failure can be 
misleading because death information from kidney failure is intertwined with 
death due to aging and other chronic diseases. Life tables are an old method, 
commonly used by actuaries and demographers to describe the life expectancy of a 
population. We developed life tables specific to a patient's age, sex, year, 
race, and comorbidity. Survival is derived from the life tables as the 
percentage of patients who are still alive in a specified period. By comparing 
survival of patients with kidney failure to the survival of people from the 
general population, we estimate that patients with kidney failure have one-third 
the chance of survival in 5 years compared with people with similar demographics 
and comorbidity but without kidney failure. The importance of this measure is 
that it provides a quantifiable estimate of the immense mortality burden of 
kidney failure.

Copyright © 2023 National Kidney Foundation, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2023.05.015
PMID: 37678740


700. Ann Rheum Dis. 2023 Dec;82(12):1558-1567. doi: 10.1136/ard-2023-224434. Epub
 2023 Sep 7.

HLA-B27, axial spondyloarthritis and survival.

Li Z(1)(2), Khan MK(3), van der Linden SM(4)(5), Winkens B(6), Villiger 
PM(4)(7), Baumberger H(8), van Zandwijk H(9), Khan MA(10), Brown MA(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Emergency Management, Southern University of 
Science and Technology, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China.
(2)Centre for Genomics and Personalised Health, School of Biomedical Sciences, 
Faculty of Health, Translational Research Institute, Queensland University of 
Technology, Woolloongabba, Queensland, Australia.
(3)Department of Mathematical Sciences, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio, USA.
(4)University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Rheumatology, Maastricht 
University Medical Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Methodology and Statistics, Care and Public Health Research 
Institute (CAPHRI), University of Maastricht, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(7)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Medical Center Monbijou, 
Bern, Switzerland.
(8)Former President of Swiss Ankylosing Spondylitis Patient Society, Flims, 
Switzerland.
(9)Rheumatology Research, Mortroux, Belgium.
(10)Department of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, 
USA.
(11)Genomics England Ltd, London, UK matt.brown@kcl.ac.uk 
matt.brown@genomicsengland.co.uk.
(12)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, King's College London, London, 
UK.

INTRODUCTION: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS), and carriage of HLA-B27 gene in 
otherwise healthy individuals, are reportedly associated with increased 
mortality. We evaluated this hypothesis, using data from both a 35-year AS 
