Bonferroni-corrected p = .001).
CONCLUSIONS: Differences in telomere length were observed primarily for 
individuals with depression or bipolar disorder and in individuals with a higher 
PRS for depression. There was no evidence that the association between age and 
telomere length differed between individuals with and without an anxiety 
disorder, depression, or bipolar disorder.

© 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpsgos.2022.08.008
PMCID: PMC10593885
PMID: 37881560


290. Biomed Rep. 2023 Oct 3;19(5):86. doi: 10.3892/br.2023.1668. eCollection 2023
 Nov.

When age is not an obstacle: A case series of endoscopic transsphenoidal 
resection of pituitary macroadenomas in older patients.

Faropoulos K(1), Gioti I(2), Georgakopoulou VE(3), Spandidos DA(4), Papalexis 
P(5)(6), Lempesis IG(3), Trakas N(7), Trakas I(3), Anagiotos A(8), Fotakopoulos 
G(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Nicosia General Hospital, 2029 Nicosia, Cyprus.
(2)Department of Radiotherapy, University Hospital of Patras, 26504 Patras, 
Greece.
(3)Department of Pathophysiology, National and Kapodistrian University of 
Athens, 11527 Athens, Greece.
(4)Laboratory of Clinical Virology, School of Medicine, University of Crete, 
71003 Heraklion, Greece.
(5)Unit of Endocrinology, First Department of Internal Medicine, Laiko General 
Hospital, Medical School, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, 11527 
Athens, Greece.
(6)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of West Attica, 12243 Athens, 
Greece.
(7)Department of Biochemistry, Sismanogleio Hospital, 15126 Athens, Greece.
(8)Department of Otolaryngology, Nicosia General Hospital, 2029 Nicosia, Cyprus.
(9)Department of Neurosurgery, General University Hospital of Larissa, 41221 
Larissa, Greece.

Due to the increase in life expectancy, the number of elderly patients suffering 
from a pituitary macroadenoma is expected to increase in the future. The 
endoscopic endonasal transsphenoidal (EET) approach tends to be the first choice 
for the treatment of pituitary macroadenomas in the general population. 
Notwithstanding, in the geriatric population, the goals of management for this 
condition remain unclear. The present study retrospectively evaluated and 
describes the cases of 6 patients >70 years of age with a pituitary macroadenoma 
who were treated by a skull base team, composed of one ENT surgeon and one 
neurosurgeon. All the patients experienced a notable improvement in their 
neurological deficit, while their hormonal status also improved or at least did 
not deteriorate after the surgery. The EET approach appears to be a safe and 
effective approach for the treatment of pituitary macroadenomas in the geriatric 
population.

Copyright: © Faropoulos et al.

DOI: 10.3892/br.2023.1668
PMCID: PMC10594072
PMID: 37881600

Conflict of interest statement: DAS is the Editor-in-Chief for the journal, but 
had no personal involvement in the reviewing process, or any influence in terms 
of adjudicating on the final decision, for this article. The other authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


291. JAMA Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2023 Oct 26:e233485. doi: 
10.1001/jamaoto.2023.3485. Online ahead of print.

Life Expectancy After Diagnosis of a Vestibular Schwannoma in Patients 70 Years 
and Older.

Mistarz N(1)(2), Reznitsky M(1), Høstmark K(1), Jakobsen KK(1), Cayé-Thomasen 
P(1)(2), Stangerup SE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head & Neck Surgery and Audiology, 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

IMPORTANCE: Over the past decades, the number of patients, especially in the 
older adult patient group, diagnosed with vestibular schwannoma (VS) has 
increased. Assuming that older adult patients have more comorbidities, a longer 
recovery period after surgery, a higher rate of surgical complications, and a 
higher mortality rate after VS surgery, a treatment strategy for this group of 
patients is warranted, based on clinical evidence on postsurgical survival.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the survival after diagnosis of a VS in patients 70 years 
and older, treated with either observation or surgery, and to compare these 
findings with the life span of an age-matched background population in Denmark.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This was a retrospective cohort study of 624 
patients 70 years and older diagnosed with VS in Denmark from 1976 to 2016. 
Since 1976, all patients with a VS have been registered in a national database, 
which contains 3637 patients. Of the included patients in this study, 477 were 
treated conservatively with the "wait-and-scan" strategy, and 147 were treated 
surgically with removal of the tumor. The survival of the patients was compared 
with a matched background population in Denmark. Data analysis was performed 
from January 1976 to January 2017.
EXPOSURES: Surgery, radiotherapy, or none.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The main outcome was survival among the patients and 
compared with the matched background population.
RESULTS: A total of 624 patients were included (317 female patients [50.8%] and 
307 male patients [49.2%]). The mean (SD) survival in the observed patients was 
9.2 (4.7) years after diagnosis, whereas for the background population, the 
expected survival was 11 years from the mean age at diagnosis. For the 
surgically treated patients, the mean (SD) survival was 11.8 (6.6) years, and 
expected survival was 11 years for the matched background population. The mean 
(SD) survival was 10.7 (5.5) years in female patients and 8.9 (5.0) years in 
male patients. There was no significant difference in survival between treatment 
modalities, irrespective of tumor size.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this cohort study, survival after diagnosis of a 
VS in patients 70 years and older was similar in the surgical group compared 
with the age-matched background population. In the wait-and-scan group, the 
survival after diagnosis was marginally shorter, which may be associated with 
increased comorbidity.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaoto.2023.3485
PMCID: PMC10603575
PMID: 37883070

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None reported.


292. PLoS One. 2023 Oct 26;18(10):e0291316. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0291316. 
eCollection 2023.

Global burden and trends of ectopic pregnancy: An observational trend study from 
1990 to 2019.

Zhang S(1), Liu J(1), Yang L(1), Li H(1), Tang J(1), Hong L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, Hubei Province, P.R.C.

BACKGROUND: Ectopic pregnancy (EP) is one of the leading causes of death in 
women in early pregnancy, and the mortality of EP have gradually decreased over 
time in developed countries such as the United Kingdom and the United States. 
However, epidemiological information on EP has been lacking in recent years, so 
we analyzed EP data over a thirty-year period from 1990-2019 with the help of 
Global Burden of Disease study (GBD) data to fill this gap.
METHODS: According to the EP data in GBD for the three decades from 1990 to 
2019, we used estimated annual percentage changes (EAPC) to assess the trend of 
age-standardized incidence rate (ASIR), age-standardized death rate (ASDR) and 
age-standardized disability adjusted life years (AS-DALYs) trends in EP and to 
explore the correlation between socio-demographic index (SDI) stratification, 
age stratification and EP.
RESULTS: Global ASIR, ASDR, AS-DALYs for EP in 2019 are 170.33/100,000 persons 
(95% UI: 133.18 to 218.49), 0.16/100,000 persons (95% UI, 0.14 to 0.19) and 
9.69/100,000 persons (95% UI, 8.27 to 11.31), respectively. At the overall 
level, ASDR is significantly negatively correlated with SDI values (R = -0.699, 
p < 0.001). Besides that, ASDR and AS-DALYs have basically the same pattern. In 
addition, iron deficiency is one of the risk factors for EP.
CONCLUSIONS: In the past three decades, the morbidity, mortality and disease 
burden of EP have gradually decreased. It is noteworthy that some economically 
disadvantaged areas are still experiencing an increase in all indicators, 
therefore, it is more important to strengthen the protection of women from 
ethnic minorities and low-income groups.

Copyright: © 2023 Zhang et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0291316
PMCID: PMC10602312
PMID: 37883498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


293. J Health Popul Nutr. 2023 Oct 26;42(1):113. doi: 10.1186/s41043-023-00412-3.

Mapping stunted children in Ethiopia using two decades of data between 2000 and 
2019. A geospatial analysis through the Bayesian approach.

Atalell KA(1), Techane MA(2), Terefe B(3), Tamir TT(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Child Health Nursing, School of Nursing, College 
of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia. 
kendalem.asmare@uog.edu.et.
(2)Department of Pediatrics and Child Health Nursing, School of Nursing, College 
of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Community Health Nursing, School of Nursing, College of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: Childhood stunting is a major public health problem globally, 
resulting in poor cognition and educational performance, low adult wages, low 
productivity, and an increased risk of nutrition-related chronic diseases in 
adulthood life. Accurate and reliable data on the prevalence of stunting over 
time with a sub-national estimate are scarce in Ethiopia.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to investigate the spatiotemporal distributions and 
ecological level drivers of stunting among under-five children over time in 
Ethiopia.
METHODS: A geospatial analysis using the Bayesian framework was employed to map 
the spatial variations of stunting among children aged less than five years. The 
data for the primary outcome were obtained from the Ethiopian Demographic and 
Health Surveys (2000-2019) and covariates data were accessed from different 
publicly available credible sources. The spatial binomial regression model was 
fitted to identify drivers of child stunting using the Bayesian approach.
RESULT: The national prevalence of stunting was 47.9 in 2000, 43.3 in 2005, 37.3 
in 2011, 36.6 in 2016, and 35.9 in 2019, with a total reduction rate of 25%. 
Substantial spatial clustering of stunting was observed in the Northern 
(Tigray), Northcentral (Amhara), and Northwestern (Amhara) parts of Ethiopia. 
Temperature (mean regression coefficient (β): -0.19; 95% credible interval (95% 
CrI): -0.25, -0.12) and population density (β: -0.012; 95% CrI: -0.016, -0.009) 
were negatively associated with stunting, whereas travel time to the nearest 
cities (β: 0.12; 95% CrI: 0.064, 0.17) was positively associated with child 
stunting in Ethiopia.
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of stunting varied substantially at subnational and 
local levels over time. Clustering of stunted children were observed in the 
Northern parts of Ethiopia. Temperature, population density and travel time to 
the nearest cities were identified as the drivers of stunting in children. 
Improving community awareness of child nutrition through community health 
extension programs should be strengthened.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s41043-023-00412-3
PMCID: PMC10601230
PMID: 37885003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests to 
declare.


294. J Eat Disord. 2023 Oct 26;11(1):190. doi: 10.1186/s40337-023-00908-7.

Birth-related, medical, and diagnostic characteristics in younger versus older 
children with avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder (ARFID).

Brosig L(1), Düplois D(1), Hiemisch A(2)(3), Kiess W(2)(3), Hilbert A(1), 
Schlensog-Schuster F(4)(5), Schmidt R(6).

Author information:
(1)Behavioral Medicine Research Unit, Department of Psychosomatic Medicine and 
Psychotherapy, Integrated Research and Treatment Center Adiposity Diseases, 
Leipzig University Medical Center, Stephanstrasse 9a, 04103, Leipzig, Germany.
(2)LIFE Leipzig Research Center for Civilization Diseases, Leipzig University, 
Philipp-Rosenthal-Strasse 27, 04103, Leipzig, Germany.
(3)Hospital for Children and Adolescents, Center for Pediatric Research, Leipzig 
University Medical Center, Liebigstrasse 20a, 04103, Leipzig, Germany.
(4)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and 
Psychosomatics, Leipzig University Medical Center, Liebigstrasse 20a, 04103, 
Leipzig, Germany.
(5)University Hospital of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, 
University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(6)Behavioral Medicine Research Unit, Department of Psychosomatic Medicine and 
Psychotherapy, Integrated Research and Treatment Center Adiposity Diseases, 
Leipzig University Medical Center, Stephanstrasse 9a, 04103, Leipzig, Germany. 
ricarda.schmidt@medizin.uni-leipzig.de.

BACKGROUND: Although avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder (ARFID) presents 
the replacement and extension of feeding disorders of infancy and childhood, 
previous research into ARFID concentrated mainly on older patients. While 
birth-related characteristics play an etiologic role in feeding disorders, 
virtually nothing is known so far in ARFID. Therefore, the first aim of the 
study was to identify differences in birth-related characteristics in younger 
vs. older children with ARFID. Second, differences in physical and mental 
comorbidities, and third, diagnostic features between age groups were analysed.
METHODS: Among N = 51 in- and outpatient treatment-seeking patients, n = 23 
patients aged 0-5 years (30% girls) and n = 28 patients aged 6-17 years (57% 
girls), with an interview-based diagnosis of ARFID were included. Data on the 
pre- and perinatal period and mental and physical comorbidities were derived 
from patients' medical records, while diagnostic criteria, main ARFID 
presentation, and sociodemographic variables were collected through diagnostic 
interview.
RESULTS: Significantly, younger patients with ARFID were born more 
often preterm and had more pre- and perinatal complications and a higher 
incidence of postnatal invasive procedures. Patients with ARFID aged 0-5 years 
presented significantly more physical comorbidities and conditions, especially 
congenital anomalies, while mental comorbidities, especially mood disorders, 
were significantly more common in patients with ARFID aged 6-17 years. No age 
differences were found for the distribution of diagnostic criteria and main 
ARFID presentation.
CONCLUSION: This is the first study which aimed to identify age-specific 
characteristics in patients with ARFID with potential relevance for diagnosis 
and treatment. Especially birth-related complications, including invasive 
procedures postnatally, may be associated with developing ARFID, highlighting 
the importance of a closer view on these potential risk factors of the disorder. 
Future research with longitudinal design and larger samples may allow more 
detailed information on further age-specific associations, symptom trajectories, 
and age-specific risk factors for ARFID.

Plain Language Summary: Avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder (ARFID) is a 
feeding and eating disorder characterized by a highly limited amount and/or 
variety of food intake accompanied by weight loss or reduced growth, nutritional 
deficiencies, the dependency on enteral nutrition or oral nutritional 
supplements, or psychosocial impairment. Although the knowledge about ARFID is 
currently expanding, there is still a lack of information whether the disorder 
presents differentially among younger and older youths. The present study 
examined n = 23 children aged 0–5 years in comparison to n = 28 patients aged 
6–17 years in birth-related, medical, and diagnostic features. ARFID was 
assessed by clinical interview and questionnaire data, and medical records were 
used to derive clinical information. While younger patients with ARFID were more 
likely to be born preterm, had complications after birth and more co-occurring 
physical diseases, older patients with ARFID showed more mental illnesses. These 
findings underline the relevance of further investigations on age-dependent 
characteristics of ARFID to adapt diagnostic assessment and treatment of the 
disorder. No significant age differences were found for diagnostic criteria and 
presentations of ARFID, indicating that these features are applicable for 
patients of all child ages.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40337-023-00908-7
PMCID: PMC10601262
PMID: 37885020

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


295. BMC Res Notes. 2023 Oct 26;16(1):295. doi: 10.1186/s13104-023-06568-9.

Novel technique for arterial reconstruction in simultaneous pancreas-kidney 
transplantation, a randomized clinical trial.

Karar H(#)(1)(2), Shafiekhani M(#)(1)(3), Mahmoudi MM(1), Azadeh N(1), 
Shamsaeefar A(1), Nazari SS(1), Jafari M(1), Ashrafzadeh K(1), Esmaeili M(1), 
Nikeghbalian S(1), Nikoupour H(4).

Author information:
(1)Shiraz Transplant Center, Abu-Ali Sina Hospital, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(2)Department of Hepatobiliary and Transplant Surgery, The National Center of 
Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease, Ibn-Sina Specialized Hospital, Khartoum, 
Sudan.
(3)Transplant Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.
(4)Shiraz Transplant Center, Abu-Ali Sina Hospital, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran. nikoupour@gmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Simultaneous pancreas kidney (SPK) transplantation is an 
invaluable procedure to enhance the quality of life of insulin-dependent 
patients with advanced renal disease. The creation of vascular anastomoses of 
the donor's pancreas vessels to the recipient's, is of utmost importance to 
predict the graft outcome and surgical complications. In the study we introduce 
a novel technique for arterial reconstruction during SPK transplantation.
METHODS: Conventionally, during the SPK transplantation, a so-called Y-graft is 
anastomosed between donor's superior mesenteric and splenic artery to the 
recipient's right iliac artery. In the study we adopted a new technique by 
preparing an extra extension using the donor's carotid artery, to be anastomosed 
to the Y-graft and the iliac artery. In this non-blinded randomized clinical 
trial we compared the surgical complications and early outcomes between the 2 
groups of patients with the traditional and new arterial reconstruction 
techniques during 3 months after transplantation.
RESULTS: Thirty adult patients were included in the study. The incidence of 
pancreatitis, vascular thrombosis and surgical site infection was lower in the 
new Y-graft and extension technique, which was not statistically significant. 
However, the calculated Cohen's d index showed the medium effect of new Y-graft 
and extension technique on complication after SPK transplantations.
CONCLUSION: The post-operative complications tend to be lower in the novel 
arterial reconstruction technique, however a study on a larger patient group is 
encouraged to confirm our primary results.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The study was registered at the Iranian Registry of Clinical 
Trials on 12/05/2022; IRCT 20210625051701N2; ( http://www.irct.ir/ ).

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13104-023-06568-9
PMCID: PMC10604519
PMID: 37885028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


296. Exp Clin Transplant. 2023 Sep;21(9):784-789. doi: 10.6002/ect.2023.0033.

Heart Transplantation as a Treatment Option for Recurrent Myxofibrosarcoma: A 
Clinical Case.

Makarov IA(1), Papko KA, Makarova TA, Bendov DV, Mitrofanova LB.

Author information:
(1)From the Almazov National Medical Research Center, St. Petersburg, Russia.

Myxofibrosarcoma is one of the most rare tumors of the heart. Surgical resection 
is the principal method of treatment; however, in some cases, radical removal of 
the tumor is not possible. Here, we present a case of heart transplant in a 
patient who experienced recurrent myxofibrosarcoma of the left atrium and 
examine the morphological features of this tumor. A 40-year-old female patient 
presented for treatment for heart failure of a high functional class. An 
examination revealed a tumor in the left atrial cavity, which was subsequently 
surgically removed. Morphological examination revealed an inflammatory 
myofibroblastic tumor. After 2 years, the patient's tumor recurred. The tumor 
was removed, and a morphological study again diagnosed myxofibrosarcoma of the 
heart. A year later, recurrence was again diagnosed. Instrumental examination 
determined that the tumor had incurred into the mitral valve and possibly spread 
to the myocardium. Tumor resection was not possible, and the need to perform a 
heart transplant was determined. The given case contributes to the practical 
conclusion that heart transplant contributes to an increase in the life 
expectancy for patients with inoperable cases of cardiac sarcoma.

DOI: 10.6002/ect.2023.0033
PMID: 37885296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Mikrobiyol Bul. 2023 Oct;57(4):608-624. doi: 10.5578/mb.20239949.

[Investigation of the Efficacy of Cinnamaldehyde, Cannabidiol and Eravacycline 
in a Malaria Model].

[Article in Turkish]

Özel Y(1), Çavuş İ(2), Ünlü M(1), Özbilgin A(3).

Author information:
(1)Balıkesir University Faculty of Medicine, Department of Medical Microbiology, 
Balıkesir, Türkiye.
(2)Manisa Celal Bayar University Institute of Health Sciences, Manisa, Türkiye.
(3)Manisa Celal Bayar University Faculty of Medicine, Department of Medical 
Parasitology, Manisa, Türkiye.

In this study, it was aimed to investigate the antimalarial activity of 
cinnamaldehyde (CIN) and cannabidiol (CBD) which have shown various biological 
activities such as potent antimicrobial activity and eravacycline (ERA), a new 
generation tetracycline derivative, in an in vivo malaria model. The cytotoxic 
activities of the active substances were determined by the MTT method against 
L929 mouse fibroblasts and their antimalarial activity were determined by the 
four-day test in an in vivo mouse model. In this study, five groups were formed: 
the CIN group, the CBD group, the ERA group, the chloroquine group (CQ) and the 
untreated group (TAG). 2.5 x 107 parasites/mL of P.berghei-infected erythrocyte 
suspension was administered IP to all mice. The determined doses of active 
substances were given to the mice by oral gavage in accordance with the four-day 
test and the parasitemia status in the mice was controlled for 21 days with 
smear preparations made from the blood taken from the tail end of the mice. The 
IC50 values, which express the cytotoxic activity values of the active 
substances were determined as 27.55 μg/mL, 16.40 μM and 48.82 μg/mL for CIN, CBD 
and ERA, respectively. The mean parasitemia rate in untreated mice was 33% on 
day nine and all mice died on day 11. On the ninth day, when compared with the 
TAG group, no parasites were observed in the CIN group, while the average 
parasitemia was 0.08% in the CBD group and 17.8% in the ERA group. Compared to 
the mice in the TAG group, the life expectancy of the other groups was prolonged 
by eight days in the CIN group, 12 days in the CBD group and eight days in the 
ERA group. It has been determined that all three active subtances tested in this 
study suppressed the development of Plasmodium parasites in an in vivo mouse 
model and prolonged the life span of the mice. It is thought that the strong 
antimalarial activity of CIN and CBD shown in the study and the possible 
positive effect of ERA on the clinical course can be improved by combining them 
with the existing and potential antimalarial molecules.

DOI: 10.5578/mb.20239949
PMID: 37885389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2023 Oct 11;11:1267986. doi: 
10.3389/fbioe.2023.1267986. eCollection 2023.

Parametric analysis of transcatheter aortic valve replacement in transcatheter 
aortic valve replacement: evaluation of coronary flow obstruction.

Scuoppo R(1), Cannata S(2), Gentile G(3), Gandolfo C(2), Pasta S(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Engineering, Università Degli Studi di Palermo, Palermo, Italy.
(2)Department for the Treatment and Study of Cardiothoracic Diseases and 
Cardiothoracic Transplantation, IRCCS Istituto Mediterraneo per i Trapianti e 
Terapie ad Alta Specializzazione (ISMETT), Palermo, Italy.
(3)Radiology Unit, Department of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Services, 
IRCCS-ISMETT, Palermo, Italy.
(4)Department of Research, IRCCS-ISMETT, Palermo, Italy.

Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is increasingly being considered 
for use in younger patients having longer life expectancy than those who were 
initially treated. The TAVR-in-TAVR procedure represents an appealing strategy 
to treat failed transcatheter heart valves (THV) likely occurring in young 
patients. However, the permanent displacement of first THV can potentially 
compromise the coronary access and ultimately inhibit the blood flow 
circulation. The objective of this study was to use finite-element analysis 
(FEA) to quantify coronary flow in a patient who underwent TAVR-in-TAVR. A 
parametric investigation was carried out to determine the impact of both the 
implantation depth and device size on coronary flow for several deployment 
configurations. The FEAs consisted of first delivering the SAPIEN 3 Ultra THV 
and then positioning the Evolut PRO device. Findings indicates that high 
implantation depth and device undersize of the second THV could significantly 
reduce coronary flow to 20% of its estimated level before TAVR. Additionally, a 
positive correlation was observed between coronary flow and the 
valve-to-coronary distance (R = 0.86 and p = 0.032 for the left coronary artery, 
and R = 0.93 and p = 0.014 for the right coronary artery). This study 
demonstrated that computational modeling can provide valuable insights to 
improve the pre-procedural planning of TAVR-in-TAVR.

Copyright © 2023 Scuoppo, Cannata, Gentile, Gandolfo and Pasta.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2023.1267986
PMCID: PMC10598678
PMID: 37885451

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


299. Cureus. 2023 Sep 25;15(9):e45942. doi: 10.7759/cureus.45942. eCollection
2023  Sep.

Long Versus Short Twin-Screw Integrated Cephalomedullary Nail (InterTAN) for the 
Surgical Management of Intertrochanteric Fractures of the Hip in Indians.

S SM(1), Gupta NR(1), Soraganvi P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, St. Peter's Medical College, Hospital and 
Research Institute, Hosur, IND.

INTRODUCTION: With an increasing life expectancy, there has been an increase in 
the incidence of intertrochanteric fractures. These fractures in the elderly are 
disabling and have a tremendous impact on the healthcare system. Despite 
substantial improvements in implant design and surgical techniques, high failure 
rates have been observed, varying with the severity of the fracture and the type 
of fixation. Intramedullary nails have become popular in recent times, 
especially in unstable fractures. The purpose of the present study is to compare 
the functional outcomes and complications of long versus short InterTAN 
cephalomedullary nails (Smith & Nephew, Memphis, Tennessee) used for 
intertrochanteric fracture fixation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All patients who had intertrochanteric fractures 
classifiable as AO OTA (Arbeitsgemeinschaft für Osteosynthesefragen/Orthopaedic 
Trauma Association) 31-A and were treated with either a short InterTAN nail 
(SIN) or long InterTAN nail (LIN) between March 2017 and March 2020 were 
retrospectively assessed. AO subtype A1 fractures are considered to be stable 
whereas subtype A3 fractures are considered unstable. The stability of subtype 
A2 fractures is variable depending on the amount of posteromedial 
comminution. Both stable and unstable fractures were included. Patients aged 
above 18 years, who had a normal pre-injury gait and were operated on within 
seven days of trauma as per the records were included in the study. 
Postoperatively, functional outcome recorded using the modified Harris hip score 
(mHHS) was compared. The minimum follow-up period was 24 months.
RESULTS: A total of 89 patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria were included. 
The mean age was 67.5 ± 8.92 years. Of the patients, 72% were above 60 years of 
age and 68% of those were females. The mean follow-up period was 31 months 
(range: 24-54 months). Of the patients, 84.27% sustained fractures after a 
trivial trauma due to slip and fall at home. All fractures had united at nine to 
12 months, except one had a screw cut-out, which required revision surgery. The 
mean mHHS at three months and nine to 12 months postoperatively was 42.46 ± 3.62 
and 87.24 ± 6.44, respectively. The patients who were treated with LIN had a 
significantly better functional outcome at three-month follow-up (p-value < 
0.05); however, post one year, this effect plateaued and no significant 
difference was seen when comparing SIN with LIN. The results also showed that 
there was no significant difference in complications among SIN and LIN.
CONCLUSION: Both LIN and SIN are equally effective for the surgical management 
of intertrochanteric fractures, and have similar functional outcomes. SIN, 
however, has shorter surgical procedure time and lesser estimated blood loss. 
LIN allowed in early recovery evidenced by better Harris hip scores at three 
months duration, thus improving the quality of life in the initial months post 
surgery. The choice of implant should be individualized according to fracture 
anatomy, patients' needs and expectations, and surgeons' expertise.

Copyright © 2023, S et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.45942
PMCID: PMC10599599
PMID: 37885513

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


300. Case Rep Pediatr. 2023 Oct 18;2023:7799234. doi: 10.1155/2023/7799234. 
eCollection 2023.

Duodenogastric Intussusception in a 14-Week-Old Infant with Donohue Syndrome: 
Case Study.

Nicolescu CR(1), Cremillieux C(1), Stephan JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire, Saint-Etienne, 
France.

Donohue syndrome (DS) is a rare recessively inherited disorder characterized by 
severe insulin resistance caused by genetic defects affecting the insulin 
receptor. The classical clinical characteristics include severe intrauterine 
growth restriction, craniofacial dysmorphic features, body and skin features, 
and soft tissue overgrowth. Postnatal growth retardation, cardiac, 
gastrointestinal, and renal complications, and infection susceptibility develop 
within the first few months of life, leading to a short life expectancy 
(<2 years). The classical metabolic abnormalities vary from fasting hypoglycemia 
to postprandial hyperglycemia with severe hyperinsulinemia. We present the case 
of a 14-week-old infant with DS who developed cardiac, renal, hepatic, 
pancreatic, and gastrointestinal features, all of them previously reported in 
infants with DS. The gastrointestinal features started during the first week of 
life and included abdominal distension, feeding difficulties, intermittent 
vomiting, and two episodes of intestinal obstruction. The diagnosis of 
duodenogastric intussusception was made, and this previously unreported 
complication tragically resulted in mortality. We discuss how basic mechanisms 
of cross-talk between insulin and insulin-growth factor 1 receptors could be 
linked to hyperinsulinemia and its associated comorbidities.

Copyright © 2023 Corina Ramona Nicolescu et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2023/7799234
PMCID: PMC10599843
PMID: 37885901

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.301. Biosensors (Basel). 2023 Sep 27;13(10):910. doi: 10.3390/bios13100910.

utPCR: A Strategy for the Highly Specific and Absolutely Quantitative Detection 
of Single Molecules within Only Minutes.

Wang R(1)(2), Liu Y(1), Chen S(1), Bai L(1), Guo K(1), Pang Y(3), Qian F(1), Li 
Y(4), Ding L(3), Wang Y(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, School of Life Sciences, 
Zhongshan Hospital, Human Phenome Institute, Pudong Hospital, Fudan University, 
Shanghai 200438, China.
(2)School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 
02138, USA.
(3)Changhai Hospital, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai 200433, 
China.
(4)School of Food Science and Engineering, Foshan University, Foshan 528231, 
China.
(5)Shanghai Engineering Research Center of Industrial Microorganisms, Shanghai 
200438, China.

Bloodstream infection is a major health problem worldwide, with extremely high 
mortality. Detecting infection in the early stage is challenging due to the 
extremely low concentration of bacteria in the blood. Digital PCR provides 
unparalleled sensitivity and can achieve absolute quantification, but it is 
time-consuming. Moreover, the presence of unavoidable background signals in 
negative controls poses a significant challenge for single-molecule detection. 
Here, we propose a novel strategy called "Ultrafast flexible thin tube-based 
droplet digital PCR (utPCR)" that can shorten the digital PCR process from 2 h 
to only 5 min, with primer annealing/extension time reduced from minutes to only 
5 s. Importantly, the ultrafast PCR eliminates nonspecific amplification and 
thus enables single-molecule detection. The utPCR enabled the sensitive 
detection and digital quantification of E. coli O157 in the high background of a 
106-fold excess of E. coli K12 cells. Moreover, this method also displayed the 
potential to detect rare pathogens in blood samples, and the limit of detection 
(LOD) could be as low as 10 CFU per mL of blood without false positive results. 
Considered ultrafast (<5 min) and highly sensitive (single-molecule detection), 
the utPCR holds excellent prospects in the next generation of molecular 
diagnosis.

DOI: 10.3390/bios13100910
PMCID: PMC10605045
PMID: 37887103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


302. Antibiotics (Basel). 2023 Oct 15;12(10):1544. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics12101544.

Molecular Characterisation of Antimicrobial Resistance in E. coli Isolates from 
Piglets in the West Region of Romania.

Lungu BC(1), Hutu I(1), Barrow PA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Horia Cernescu Research Unit, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
Life Sciences King Michael I, Calea Aradului 119, 300645 Timisoara, Romania.
(2)School of Veterinary Medicine, University of Surrey, Daphne Jackson Rd., 
Guildford, Surrey GU2 7AL, UK.

Antibiotics are widely used for prophylaxis and therapy, reducing morbidity and 
mortality produced by bacterial pathogensin pigs, including infections caused by 
Escherichia coli. The aim of this study was to characterise antibiotic 
resistance phenotypes and genotypes in E. coli isolates in pigs in West Romanian 
grower farms. Differential phenotypic susceptibility profiles and the 
contribution of resistance genes to phenotypic expression of susceptibility or 
resistance were evaluated. A total of 76 E. coli isolates were identified and 
confirmed by the MicroScan Walk Away System. The occurrence of four resistance 
genes, ampC, blaZ, blaTEM and tetK in strains resistant to 13 antibiotics was 
assessed. Of the E. coli isolates, 0% showed resistance to meropenem, 3.9% to 
tigecycline and 10.5% to piperacillin/tazobactam, whereas, in contrast, 100% 
were resistant to ampicillin and mezlocillin, 76.31% to piperacillin and 59.3% 
to tetracycline. The prevalence of resistance genes in resistant isolates 
detected by q-PCR analysis was 97.0% for ampC, 96% for blaZ, 32.9% for blaTEM 
and 58.8% for tetK. Penetrance (the proportion of individuals carrying a 
particular variant of a gene that also expresses an associated trait) was 50% 
for ampC (32% for amoxicillin/clavulanate, 62% for cefazolin, 32% for cefepime, 
100% for cefotaxime, 56% for cefuroxime and 99% for ampicillin), 65% for blaZ 
(32% for amoxicillin/clavulanate and 99% for ampicillin), 51% for blaTEM (81% 
for piperacillin) and 44% for the tetK gene (83% for tetracycline). The result 
of phenotypic antibiotic resistance testing may indicate the presence of 
plasmid-borne resistance, with a diagnostic odds ratio of a positive phenotypic 
resistance for tetK being 4.52. As a management decision, the maximum penetrance 
admitted for using a specific antibiotic for E. coli infections in pigs is 
recommended to be less than 20%.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics12101544
PMCID: PMC10604006
PMID: 37887245

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


303. Curr Oncol. 2023 Sep 26;30(10):8763-8773. doi: 10.3390/curroncol30100632.

Dose Volume and Liver Function Test Relationship following Radiotheraphy for 
Right Breast Cancer: A Multicenter Study.

Güzelöz Z(1), Ayrancıoğlu O(2), Aktürk N(3), Güneş M(2), Alıcıkuş ZA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Health Science University Tepecik Training 
and Research Hospital, İzmir 35100, Türkiye.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, İzmir Tınaztepe University Galen Hospital, 
İzmir 35001, Türkiye.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Katip Çelebi University Atatürk Training 
and Research Hospital, İzmir 35150, Türkiye.

OBJECTIVE: The liver is a critical organ at risk during right breast 
radiotherapy (RT). Liver function tests (LFTs) such as alanine aminotransferase 
(ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) 
serve as biochemical markers for hepatobiliary damage. In this multicenter 
cross-sectional study, the effects of liver dose-volume on changes in LFTs pre- 
and post-RT in patients treated for right breast cancer were evaluated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between January 2019 and November 2022, data from 100 
patients who underwent adjuvant right breast RT across three centers were 
retrospectively assessed. Target volumes and normal structures were contoured 
per the RTOG atlas. Patients were treated with a total dose of 50 Gy in 25 
fractions to the CTV, followed by a boost to the tumor bed where indicated. The 
percentage change in LFT values in the first two weeks post-RT was calculated. 
Statistics were analyzed with SPSS version 22 software, with significance set at 
p < 0.05. Statistical correlation between liver doses (in cGy) and the volume 
receiving specific doses (Vx in cc) on the change in LFTs were analyzed using 
Kolmogorov-Smirnov, Mann-Whitney U test.
RESULTS: The median age among the 100 patients was 56 (range: 29-79). 
Breast-conserving surgery was performed on 75% of the patients. The most common 
T and N stages were T1 (53%) and N0 (53%), respectively. None of the patients 
had distant metastasis or simultaneous systemic treatment with RT. A total of 
67% of the treatments utilized the IMRT technique and 33% VMAT. The median CTV 
volume was 802 cc (range: 214-2724 cc). A median boost dose of 10 Gy (range: 
10-16 Gy) was applied to 28% of the patients with electrons and 51% with 
IMRT/VMAT. The median liver volume was 1423 cc (range: 825-2312 cc). Statistical 
analyses were conducted on a subset of 57 patients for whom all three LFT values 
were available both pre- and post-RT. In this group, the median values for AST, 
ALT, and GGT increased up to 15% post-RT compared to pre-RT, and a median liver 
Dmean below 208 cGy was found significant. While many factors can influence LFT 
values, during RT planning, attention to liver doses and subsequent regular LFT 
checks are crucial.
CONCLUSION: Due to factors such as anatomical positioning, planning technique, 
and breast posture, the liver can receive varying doses during right breast 
irradiation. Protecting patients from liver toxicity secondary to RT is 
valuable, especially in breast cancer patients with a long-life expectancy. Our 
study found that, even in the absence of any systemic treatment or risk factors, 
there was an average increase of nearly 15% in enzymes, indicating acute liver 
damage post-RT compared with pre-RT. Attention to liver doses during RT planning 
and regular follow-up with LFTs is essential.

DOI: 10.3390/curroncol30100632
PMCID: PMC10605792
PMID: 37887532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


304. Curr Oncol. 2023 Sep 26;30(10):8774-8792. doi: 10.3390/curroncol30100633.

The New Era of Systemic Treatment for Hepatocellular Carcinoma: From the First 
Line to the Optimal Sequence.

Cerreto M(1), Cardone F(1), Cerrito L(1), Stella L(1), Santopaolo F(1), Pallozzi 
M(1), Gasbarrini A(1)(2), Ponziani FR(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Liver Unit-CEMAD, Centro Malattie Apparato Digerente, Medicina Interna e 
Gastroenterologia, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario Gemelli IRCCS, 00168 
Rome, Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Medicina e Chirurgia Traslazionale, Università Cattolica del 
Sacro Cuore, 00168 Rome, Italy.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) represents the most common primary liver cancer 
and is considered a major global health problem as one of the leading causes of 
cancer-related death in the world. Due to the increase in life expectancy and 
the epidemiological growth of specific risk factors, such as metabolic 
dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), the incidence of HCC is 
growing globally, and mortality rates are still high. Moreover, patients 
frequently present at an intermediate or advanced tumor stage, when curative 
treatments, such as surgical resection, liver transplantation or ablation are no 
longer applicable. In these cases, trans-arterial chemoembolization (TACE), 
trans-arterial radioembolization (TARE), and systemic therapy are the only 
suitable options to achieve disease control. The multi-kinase inhibitor 
Sorafenib has been the only systemic treatment available for unresectable 
advanced HCC for almost a decade, but in the last couple of years new 
therapeutic options have emerged. Recent advances in understanding the 
interactions between the tumor and its microenvironment, especially cancer 
immune escape, led to the advent of immunotherapy. Currently, first-line 
systemic treatment for HCC is represented by the combination of the immune 
checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) Atezolizumab plus Bevacizumab, an anti-vascular 
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) monoclonal antibody, but many other ICIs have 
been investigated, such as Nivolumab, Pembrolizumab, Durvalumab and Ipilimumab. 
However, the problem of second- and third-line therapies, and the correct 
sequence of treatments remains open and is not addressed in most studies. This 
explains the urge to find new systemic treatments that can improve the survival 
and quality of life in patients that can go beyond the first line of treatment. 
The aim of this paper is to offer a complete overview of the most recent 
innovations in systemic treatments for unresectable locally advanced and 
metastatic HCC, including emerging therapies, with a particular focus on 
treatment sequences. Moreover, we will provide an outlook on possible future 
approaches to patients who progress beyond first-line therapies.

DOI: 10.3390/curroncol30100633
PMCID: PMC10605429
PMID: 37887533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


305. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Oct 10;20(20):6906. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20206906.

QoL, CIs, QALYs, and Individualized Rehabilitation: The Clinical and Practical 
Benefits of Regularly Assessing the Quality of Life of Adult Cochlear Implant 
Recipients.

Lassaletta L(1)(2), Calvino M(1)(2), Sanchez-Cuadrado I(1), Skarzynski PH(3), 
Cywka KB(3), Czajka N(3), Kutyba J(3), Tavora-Vieira D(4), Van de Heyning P(5), 
Mertens G(5), Staecker H(6), Humphrey B(6), Zernotti M(7), Zernotti M(7), Magele 
A(8), Ploder M(8), Zabeu JS(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Hospital La Paz. IdiPAZ Research 
Institute, 28046 Madrid, Spain.
(2)Biomedical Research Networking Centre on Rare Diseases (CIBERER), Institute 
of Health Carlos III, (CIBERER-U761), 28029 Madrid, Spain.
(3)Institute of Physiology and Pathology of Hearing, World Hearing Center, 
05-830 Kajetany, Poland.
(4)Fiona Stanley Fremantle Hospitals Group, Perth 6150, Australia.
(5)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Antwerp University Hospital, 2650 Antwerp, 
Belgium.
(6)ENT Department, University of Kansas Medical Centre, Kansas City, KS 66160, 
USA.
(7)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Sanatorio Allende de Córdoba, Córdoba 
5000, Argentina.
(8)ENT Department, Universitätsklinikum St. Pölten, 3100 St. Pölten, Austria.
(9)Hospital de Reabilitacão de Anomalias Craniofaciais da Universidade de Sao 
Paulo, Campus Bauru, Bauru 17012-230, Brazil.

This study aimed to report quality of life (QoL) scores in unilateral cochlear 
implant (CI) users and to generate guidance for clinicians on using QoL measures 
to individualize CI counselling and rehabilitation and to increase access to CIs 
as a mode of rehabilitation. Participants (n = 101) were unilateral CI users 
with single-sided deafness (SSD; n = 17), asymmetrical hearing loss (AHL; n = 
26), or bilateral hearing loss (Uni; n = 58). Generic QoL was assessed via the 
Health Utilities Index (HUI-3), and disease-specific QoL was assessed via the 
Speech, Spatial, and Qualities of Hearing scale (SSQ12) and Nijmegen CI 
Questionnaire (NCIQ) at preimplantation and at 6 and 12 months of CI use. All 
groups had significantly increased HUI-3 scores at both intervals. The SSD group 
showed significant benefit on the SSQ12 at visit 3, the AHL group showed 
significant benefit on the SSQ12 and most NCIQ subdomains at both intervals, and 
the Uni group showed significant benefit with both tests at both intervals. 
Unilateral CI recipients demonstrate improved QoL within the first 12 months of 
device use. Regular assessment with generic and disease-specific questionnaires 
has the potential to play an important role in personalizing treatment and 
possibly in increasing access to CI provision.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20206906
PMCID: PMC10605987
PMID: 37887644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


306. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Oct 23;20(20):6963. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20206963.

Measuring Nurses' Knowledge and Awareness of Climate Change and 
Climate-Associated Diseases: Protocol for a Systematic Review of Existing 
Instruments.

Portela Dos Santos O(1)(2), Melly P(1), Joost S(3)(4)(5), Verloo H(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing Sciences, School of Health Sciences, HES-SO 
Valais/Wallis, University of Applied Sciences and Arts Western Switzerland, 1950 
Sion, Switzerland.
(2)Institute of Health Sciences, Universidade Católica Portuguesa, 4169-005 
Porto, Portugal.
(3)Geospatial Molecular Epidemiology Group (GEOME), Laboratory for Biological 
Geochemistry (LGB), Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), 1015 
Lausanne, Switzerland.
(4)Unit of Population Epidemiology, Division and Department of Primary Care 
Medicine, Geneva University Hospitals, 1205 Geneva, Switzerland.
(5)La Source School of Nursing, University of Applied Sciences and Arts Western 
Switzerland (HES-SO), 1004 Lausanne, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Lausanne University Hospital, Service of Old Age 
Psychiatry, 1008 Lausanne, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Climate change is a health emergency. Each year, it is estimated to 
cost more than 230 million years of life expectancy, with 4-9 million premature 
deaths associated with air pollution, and 9 million excess deaths due to 
non-optimal temperatures, representing 7% more temperature-related deaths since 
2015 and 66% more since 2000.
OBJECTIVE: Identify and evaluate the reliability, fidelity, and validity of 
instruments measuring nurses' knowledge and awareness of climate change and 
climate-associated diseases.
METHODS: A systematic literature review will retrieve and assess studies 
examining instruments measuring nurses' knowledge and awareness of climate 
change and climate-associated diseases. Using predefined search terms for 
nurses, climate change, literacy and scales or tools, we will search for 
published articles recorded in the following electronic databases, with no 
language or date restrictions, from their inception until 31 October 2023: 
Medline Ovid SP (from 1946), PubMed (NOT Medline[sb], from 1996), Embase.com 
(from 1947), CINAHL Ebesco (from 1937), the Cochrane Library Wiley (from 1992), 
Web of Science Core Collection (from 1900), the Trip Database (from 1997), JBI 
OVID SP (from 1998), and the GreenFILE EBSCO. We will also hand-search relevant 
articles' bibliographies and search for unpublished studies using Google 
Scholar, ProQuest Dissertations and Theses Global, and DART-EUrope.eu. This will 
be completed by exploring the gray literature in OpenGrey and the Grey 
Literature Report, from inception until 31 October 2023, in collaboration with a 
librarian. Twelve bibliographic databases will be searched for publications up 
to 31 October 2023. The papers selected will be assessed for their quality.
RESULTS: The electronic database searches were completed in May 2023. Retrieved 
articles are being screened, and the study will be completed by October 2023. 
After removing duplicates, our search strategy has retrieved 3449 references.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review will provide specific knowledge about 
instruments to measure nurses' knowledge, awareness, motivation, attitudes, 
behaviors, beliefs, skills, and competencies regarding climate change and 
climate-associated diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20206963
PMCID: PMC10606615
PMID: 37887701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


307. J Pers Med. 2023 Oct 14;13(10):1495. doi: 10.3390/jpm13101495.

Evaluation of the Loss of Strength, Resistance, and Elasticity in the Different 
Types of Intraoral Orthodontic Elastics (IOE): A Systematic Review of the 
Literature of In Vitro Studies.

Saccomanno S(1), Quinzi V(1), Paskay LC(2), Caccone L(1), Rasicci L(1), Fani 
E(1), Di Giandomenico D(1), Marzo G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health, Life and Environmental Science, University of L'Aquila, 
67100 L'Aquila, Italy.
(2)Academy of Orofacial Myofunctional Therapy (AOMT), Pacific Palisades, CA 
90272, USA.

BACKGROUND: Intraoral orthodontic elastics (IOE), typically referred to as 
rubber bands, are important tools for correcting malocclusion, and they are 
classified into latex and synthetic (elastomeric-based) elastics. They have 
different strengths and sizes, depending on their intended use, that provide 
clinicians with the ability to correct both anteroposterior and vertical 
discrepancies. Clinical use, together with saliva, alters the physical 
characteristics of both latex and synthetic elastics, causing declines in 
strength over time.
AIM: The aim of the study was to assess, through a systematic review of in vitro 
studies, the properties of intraoral elastics. The primary goal was to evaluate 
how IOEs behave in terms of tension strength and duration. The secondary goal 
was to investigate the force loss during the first hours of wear. The tertiary 
goal was to assess how these forces decayed.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The following electronic databases were searched from 
December 2020 to April 2021: Medline Full Text, PubMed, Cochrane Clinical Trials 
Register, Science Direct, and Literature Review. Out of 8505 initial articles, 
10 were selected for the systematic review.
RESULTS: The force-degradation property was found in all types of IOEs. The loss 
of strength was directly proportional to time, with the highest value during the 
first 3 h after extension, regardless of the elastic band size and manufacturer. 
The forces generated by the latex bands were higher than in those of the 
elastomeric-based elastics, but they did not consistently correspond to the 
loads specified by the manufacturers. The retention forces in the latex IOEs 
were significantly higher than those in the nonlatex bands, suggesting that 
elastomeric-based bands need to be changed more frequently and at regular 
intervals throughout a 24 h period.
CONCLUSION: This systematic review indicates that intraoral orthodontic elastics 
have the greatest loss of force during the first 3 h, that latex rubber bands 
have the highest strength during the first hour, that the forces generated are 
not always consistent with the manufacturer's specifications, and that nonlatex 
(elastomeric-based) IOEs need to be changed frequently and regularly during a 
24-h cycle.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm13101495
PMCID: PMC10608549
PMID: 37888106

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


308. Gels. 2023 Oct 13;9(10):814. doi: 10.3390/gels9100814.

Current Trends in Aerogel Use in Heritage Buildings: Case Studies from the 
Aerogel Architecture Award 2021.

Ganobjak M(1)(2), Brunner S(1), Hofmann J(3), Klar V(4), Ledermann M(5), Herzog 
V(6), Kämpfen B(7), Kilian R(8), Wehdorn M(9), Wernery J(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Building Energy Materials and Components, Empa, Swiss Federal 
Laboratory for Science and Technology, Überlandstrasse 129, 8600 Dübendorf, 
Switzerland.
(2)Faculty of Architecture, Institute of History and Theory of Architecture and 
Monument Restoration, Slovak University of Technology in Bratislava, Námestie 
Slobody 19, 812 45 Bratislava, Slovakia.
(3)WPB Planungsgesellschaft mbH & Co KG, Meyerstraße 56, 99423 Weimar, Germany.
(4)Klar Architektur + Energieberatung, Bahnhofstr. 19/21, 72127 Mähringen, 
Germany.
(5)Architekturbüro Ledermann AG, Mittelstrasse 40, 4900 Langenthal, Switzerland.
