(2)Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies, Harvard T.H. Chan 
School of Public Health, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA.

A substantial body of prior research has explored patterns of disability-free 
and morbidity-free life expectancy among older populations. However, these 
distinct facets of later-life health are almost always studied in isolation, 
even though they are very likely to be related. Using data from the US Health 
and Retirement Study and a multistate life table approach, this paper explores 
the interactions between disability, morbidity, and mortality by sex and 
education among four successive US birth cohorts, born from 1914 to 1923 to 
1944-1953 and compared in the periods 1998-2008 and 2008-2018. We find little 
compression of disability but a marked expansion of morbidity across cohorts. 
However, disability-free life expectancy (DFLE) among those living with chronic 
morbidities has increased, even though at the population-level DFLE is largely 
unchanged. Broadly, these patterns suggest that successive cohorts of older 
populations in the US are experiencing a dynamic equilibrium, where the link 
between chronic morbidities and disability has weakened over successive cohorts. 
Investigating patterns by educational attainment, we find marked disparities 
where the least educated individuals not only live significantly fewer years 
free of disabilities or chronic morbidities but also have experienced an 
expansion in morbidity and disability. Our findings suggest that the future 
trajectory of disability-free life expectancy in the US is increasingly 
contingent on efforts to improve disease management and control the severe 
consequences of chronic morbidities.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2023.101528
PMCID: PMC10625143
PMID: 37927816

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


420. Front Public Health. 2023 Oct 19;11:1259202. doi:
10.3389/fpubh.2023.1259202.  eCollection 2023.

Evaluation of the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on the all-cause, 
cause-specific mortality, YLL, and life expectancy in the first 2 years in an 
Iranian population-an ecological study.

Pirayesh Z(1), Riahi SM(2), Bidokhti A(3), Kazemi T(4).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Birjand University of Medical Sciences, Birjand, 
Iran.
(2)Department of Community Medicine, School of Medicine, Cardiovascular Diseases 
Research Center, Birjand University of Medical Sciences, Birjand, Iran.
(3)Cardiovascular Diseases Research Center, Birjand University of Medical 
Sciences, Birjand, Iran.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Cardiovascular Diseases Research Center, Birjand 
University of Medical Sciences, Birjand, Iran.

BACKGROUND: COVID-19 pandemic resulted in excess mortality and changed the 
trends of causes of death worldwide. In this study, we investigate the all-cause 
and cause-specific deaths during the COVID-19 pandemic (2020-2022) compared to 
the baseline (2018-2020), considering age groups, gender, place of residence, 
and place of death in south Khorasan, east of Iran.
METHODS: The present ecological study was conducted using South Khorasan 
Province death certificate data during 2018-2022. The number of death and 
all-cause and cause-specific mortality rates (per 100,000 people) were 
calculated and compared based on age groups, place of residence, place of death, 
and gender before (2018-2020) and during the COVID-19 pandemic (2020-2022). We 
also calculated total and cause-specific years of life lost (YLL) to death and 
gender-specific life expectancy at birth.
RESULTS: A total of 7,766 deaths occurred from March 21, 2018, to March 20, 2020 
(pre-pandemic) and 9,984 deaths from March 21, 2020, to March 20, 2022 
(pandemic). The mean age at death increased by about 2 years during the COVID-19 
pandemic. The mortality rate was significantly increased in the age groups 
20 years and older. The most excess deaths were recorded in men, Aged more than 
60 years, death at home, and the rural population. Mortality due to COVID-19 
accounted for nearly 17% of deaths. The highest increase in mortality rate was 
observed due to endocrine and Cardiovascular diseases. Mortality rates due to 
the genitourinary system and Certain conditions originating in the perinatal 
period have decreased during the COVID-19 pandemic. The major causes of death 
during the pandemic were Cardiovascular diseases, COVID-19, cancer, chronic 
respiratory diseases, accidents, and endocrine diseases in both sexes, in rural 
and urban areas. Years of life lost (YLL) increased by nearly 15.0%, which was 
mostly due to COVID-19, life expectancy at birth has steadily declined from 2018 
to202 for both genders (from 78.4 to 75).
CONCLUSION: In this study, we found that All-cause mortality increased by 25.5% 
during the COVID-19 pandemic, especially in men, older adult, Rural residents, 
and those who died at home (outside the hospital). Considering that the most 
common causes of death during the COVID-19 pandemic are also non-communicable 
diseases. It is necessary to pay attention to non-communicable diseases even 
during the pandemic of a serious infectious disease like COVID-19. The years of 
life lost also increased during the COVID-19 pandemic, which is necessary to pay 
attention to all age groups, especially the causes of death in young people. In 
most developing countries, the first cause of death of these groups is 
accidents.

Copyright © 2023 Pirayesh, Riahi, Bidokhti and Kazemi.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1259202
PMCID: PMC10620308
PMID: 37927873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.421. eNeurologicalSci. 2023 Oct 18;33:100480. doi: 10.1016/j.ensci.2023.100480. 
eCollection 2023 Dec.

Unveiling Dandy-Walker syndrome: A surprising twist in the tale of acute 
hydrocephalus and Down syndrome child.

Fahed E(1), Msheik A(2), Yazbeck M(3), Rahal M(4), Antoun S(4), Geagea C(4), 
Younes P(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurosurgery department, Bellevue Medical Center, Beirut, Lebanon.
(2)Neurosurgery, Faculty of medical sciences, Lebanese University, Lebanon.
(3)Neurosurgery Department, Clemenceau Medical Center, Beirut, Lebanon.
(4)Pediatrics department, Bellevue Medical Center, Beirut, Lebanon.

The correlation between Down syndrome and Dandy-Walker syndrome is an 
exceptionally uncommon occurrence. To date, only four cases have been 
documented. All previously reported cases involved individuals under the age of 
37 months, with prenatal or birth diagnoses. Additionally, most of these cases 
displayed a limited life expectancy and experienced poor developmental outcomes. 
In this report, we present the first-ever instance of an 11-year-old male 
patient, previously undiagnosed with Dandy-Walker syndrome, who presented with 
acute intracranial hypertension. Magnetic Resonance Imaging revealed an active 
hydrocephalus caused by a Dandy-Walker malformation. The patient's condition was 
effectively managed through the implementation of a ventriculo-cysto-peritoneal 
shunt. This case highlights the coexistence of Dandy-Walker syndrome and Down 
syndrome in an asymptomatic young patient. Furthermore, it demonstrates that 
active hydrocephalus in such cases can be successfully addressed through either 
endoscopic third ventriculostomy or ventriculo-cysto-peritoneal shunt 
procedures.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ensci.2023.100480
PMCID: PMC10624568
PMID: 37928178

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


422. Urol Case Rep. 2023 Oct 15;51:102590. doi: 10.1016/j.eucr.2023.102590. 
eCollection 2023 Nov.

Open retropubic prostatectomy in a patient with bladder exstrophy for management 
of hematuria and urethral discharge - A case report.

Arroyave JS(1), Wang D(1), Connors C(1), Larenas F(1), Ferrer F(1), Palese M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, Gustave L. 
Levy Place, New York, NY, 10029, USA.

Bladder exstrophy (BE) is a rare congenital disorder causing bladder and 
urethral malformation due to an abdominal wall embryological defect. 
Traditionally, BE had a poor life expectancy, but advances now offer a normal 
lifespan. A 57-year-old male with BE history and ureterosigmoidostomy repair 
presented with intractable hematuria, urethral discharge, and recurrent 
prostatic infections. He underwent retropubic subtotal prostatectomy without 
major complications, resolving urinary symptoms. Advances in BE management 
extend patient lifespans. This case demonstrates successful surgical management 
of hematuria and urethral discharge through radical prostatectomy in an adult 
with a history of BE.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eucr.2023.102590
PMCID: PMC10622629
PMID: 37928513

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


423. Front Microbiol. 2023 Oct 19;14:1273902. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2023.1273902. 
eCollection 2023.

Screening and evaluation of skin potential probiotic from high-altitude Tibetans 
to repair ultraviolet radiation damage.

Zhang Z(1)(2), Ran H(3), Hua Y(4), Deng F(1)(2), Zeng B(4), Chai J(1)(2), Li 
Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Molecular Design and Precise 
Breeding, College of Life Science and Engineering, Foshan University, Foshan, 
China.
(2)School of Life Science and Engineering, Foshan University, Foshan, China.
(3)Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Technology Extension Station, Chongqing, 
China.
(4)Farm Animal Genetic Resources Exploration and Innovation Key Laboratory of 
Sichuan Province, Sichuan Agricultural University, Chengdu, China.

Human skin microbes play critical roles in skin health and diseases. Microbes 
colonizing on the skin of Tibetans living in the high-altitude area for 
generations may have a stronger ability to resist the harsh environment, such as 
high ultraviolet radiation (UV). Isolation of a potential probiotic from 
Tibetans skin is beneficial for resistance of skin disease for humans in the 
world. In this study, the signature microbiota for Tibetan skin were 
characterized compared to low-altitude humans. Next, using culture-omics, 118 
species were isolated. The culturability of high-altitude of Tibetan skin 
microbiome reached approximate 66.8%. Next, we found that one strain, Pantoea 
eucrina, had the greatest ability to repair UV damage to the skin as the lowest 
pathological score was observed in this group. Interestingly, another animal 
trial found this bacterium resisted UV rather than its metabolites. Using whole 
genome sequencing, this strain P. eucrina KBFS172 was confirmed, and its 
functions were annotated. It might involve in the metabolic pathway of 
carotenoid biosynthesis with anti-oxidative stress properties, which plays 
critical roles in UV-damage repair. In conclusion, we characterized the 
signature microbes of skin in high-altitude Tibetans, isolated a skin bacterium 
of Pantoea eucrina KBFS172 which could repair UV damage via involving the 
metabolic pathway of carotenoid biosynthesis. Our results provide a new 
potential skin probiotic for skin disease prevention or sunburn.

Copyright © 2023 Zhang, Ran, Hua, Deng, Zeng, Chai and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2023.1273902
PMCID: PMC10620709
PMID: 37928688

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


424. Biol Methods Protoc. 2023 Oct 18;8(1):bpad025. doi:
10.1093/biomethods/bpad025.  eCollection 2023.

The effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on life expectancy in the USA: An 
application of hybrid life expectancy.

Sanderson WC(1)(2)(3), Scherbov S(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Stony Brook University; Stony Brook, NY 11794, 
United States.
(2)Center of Demographic Research, Baruch College, New York, NY 10010, United 
States.
(3)Population and Just Societies Program, International Institute for Applied 
Systems Analysis, Laxenburg A-2361, Austria.
(4)College of Population Studies, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok 10330, 
Thailand.

Pandemics are, by definition, temporary intervals of substantially increased 
mortality rates experienced across a wide geographic area. One way of assessing 
the magnitude of the COVID-19 pandemic in the USA has been to compute the 
differences in life expectancy at birth during a pandemic year and the year 
before the pandemic. Such comparisons are misleading because they do not account 
for the duration of the pandemic. The computation of life expectancy in 2019 
assumes that people spend their entire lives experiencing prepandemic mortality 
rates. The computation of life expectancy in 2021 assumes that people live their 
entire lives in a permanent pandemic. However, people do not live their entire 
lives experiencing the elevated mortality rates of 2021. This article introduces 
a method for calculating life expectancy that reflects the experience of people 
enduring pandemic-level mortality rates for fixed durations. We call the new 
quantity hybrid life expectancy because it integrates both pandemic and 
prepandemic mortality rates. The difference in life expectancy at birth in the 
USA in 2019 with and without a 3-year-long pandemic is 0.01 years. This is 
because mortality rates at ages 0, 1, and 2 in the pandemic were essentially 
unchanged from their prepandemic levels. Life expectancy at age 65 incorporating 
a 3-year pandemic is 0.18 years lower than life expectancy would have been 
without it. Reductions in life expectancy due to the COVID-19 pandemic using 
hybrid life expectancy are dramatically lower than differences in life 
expectancy that do not take the duration of the pandemic into account.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/biomethods/bpad025
PMCID: PMC10621591
PMID: 37929068


425. Front Physiol. 2023 Oct 20;14:1257465. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2023.1257465. 
eCollection 2023.

Visual accelerated and olfactory decelerated responses during multimodal 
learning in honeybees.

Strube-Bloss M(1), Günzel P(1), Nebauer CA(2)(3), Spaethe J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Cybernetics, Faculty of Biology, Bielefeld 
University, Bielefeld, Germany.
(2)Department of Plant-Insect-Interaction, Life Science Systems, Technical 
University of Munich, Freising, Germany.
(3)Behavioral Physiology and Sociobiology (Zoology II), Biocenter, University of 
Wuerzburg, Wuerzburg, Germany.

To obtain accurate information about the outside world and to make appropriate 
decisions, animals often combine information from different sensory pathways to 
form a comprehensive representation of their environment. This process of 
multimodal integration is poorly understood, but it is common view that the 
single elements of a multimodal stimulus influence each other's perception by 
enhancing or suppressing their neural representation. The neuronal level of 
interference might be manifold, for instance, an enhancement might increase, 
whereas suppression might decrease behavioural response times. In order to 
investigate this in an insect behavioural model, the Western honeybee, we 
trained individual bees to associate a sugar reward with an odour, a light, or a 
combined olfactory-visual stimulus, using the proboscis extension response 
(PER). We precisely monitored the PER latency (the time between stimulus onset 
and the first response of the proboscis) by recording the muscle M17, which 
innervates the proboscis. We found that odours evoked a fast response, whereas 
visual stimuli elicited a delayed PER. Interestingly, the combined stimulus 
showed a response time in between the unimodal stimuli, suggesting that 
olfactory-visual integration accelerates visual responses but decelerates the 
olfactory response time.

Copyright © 2023 Strube-Bloss, Günzel, Nebauer and Spaethe.

DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2023.1257465
PMCID: PMC10624174
PMID: 37929207

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


426. Int J Radiat Biol. 2023 Nov 6:1-12. doi: 10.1080/09553002.2023.2276916.
Online  ahead of print.

Paracelsian 'Bergsucht' - lung cancer or radiation-induced fibrosis?

Zhukovsky M(1), Onishchenko A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Industrial Ecology UB RAS, Yekaterinburg, Russia.

PURPOSE: Assessment of absorbed doses on organs and tissues of miners during 
radon exposure in the Schneeberg mines in the sixteenth century and calculation 
of the probability of occurrence of radiation-induced lung cancer and lung 
fibrosis, considering the life expectancy characteristic and the absence of 
smoking.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The expected radon concentration at the Schneeberg mines 
has been estimated using published data. Modeling of the accumulation of radon 
in the working tunnels of mine workings was carried out using the RESRAD-Build 
4.0, based on the radium concentration in soil and geometric parameters of the 
mining tunnel from the engravings in Agricola's book. The dynamics of 
radionuclides in the human body were performed using the WinAct software in 
accordance with data from ICRP Publications 130 and 137. The values of absorbed 
doses on the tissues of the respiratory tract were obtained using the IDAC 2.1 
program. Several models based on the epidemiology of uranium miners have been 
used to calculate radiation risks from radon exposure. The probability of male 
survival at birth and the age-specific frequency of spontaneous lung cancer not 
associated with radiation for miners of the sixteenth century (nonsmoking men 
aged 20-40 years) were estimated to properly calculate the radiation risks.
RESULTS: The expected radon concentration in the Schneeberg mines was assessed 
in the range of 75-100 kBq m-3. The average value of the equilibrium factor was 
estimated as 0.49 ± 0.03. The annual exposure of miners to radon decay products 
was assessed as 125-165 WLM year-1. The annual values of absorbed doses to 
different sections of the respiratory tract were calculated, the maximum 
absorbed doses of α-radiation are formed on the bronchial and bronchiolar 
regions of the lungs (2.23 Gy year-1). The deterministic effects as radiation 
fibrosis of the lungs with 10 years of experience in the mines of Schneeberg 
have a probability of occurrence from 60 to 100%. All the models used for 
radiation risk assessments showed that the lifetime risk of developing lung 
cancer for nonsmoking Schneeberg miners is many times lower than the risk of 
developing deterministic radiation effects. In contrast, for the smoking cohort 
of miners in the nineteenth century lung cancer become the dominant cause of 
death.
CONCLUSIONS: The deterministic radiation effects of Schneeberg miners in 
sixteenth century, exposed to extremely high levels of radon, such as radiation 
pneumosclerosis or pulmonary fibrosis, are more likely than the development of 
radiation-induced lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1080/09553002.2023.2276916
PMID: 37930055


427. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2023 Nov 1;167:D7748.

[Palliative care benefits from careful use of words].

[Article in Dutch]

van Dulmen S(1)(2), Smits L(3).

Author information:
(1)Nivel, Utrecht (tevens: Radboudumc, afd. Eerstelijnsgeneeskunde, Nijmegen en 
University of Borås, Zweden): prof.dr. S. van Dulmen, psycholoog.
(2)Contact: Sandra van Dulmen (s.vandulmen@nivel.nl).
(3)Vincent van Gogh voor geestelijke gezondheidszorg, Venray: drs. L. Smits, 
klinisch geriater.

Worldwide, meaning and valence of words are being examined and weighed. This 
also occurs in healthcare, where campaigns demand attention for the fact that 
being terminally ill does not mean that there are no treatments left. Such 
efforts are commendable as there is room for improvement in the communication 
between healthcare providers and patients and healthcare providers are not 
equally well equipped to communicate effectively. Still, a US study in 
palliative surgery suggests that patients do not prefer one particular 
communication framework over another, tailoring of words seems the way to go. 
This may be especially beneficial for patients with a limited level of health 
literacy. Communication tools like the 'teach back' method, e-learnings and 
language guides can furthermore support healthcare providers in palliative care 
to continue to choose their words carefully with patients with a limited life 
expectancy.

PMID: 37930175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2023 Oct 18:S0735-1097(23)07569-1. doi: 
10.1016/j.jacc.2023.08.055. Online ahead of print.

Risk of Type B Dissection in Marfan Syndrome: The Cornell Aortic Aneurysm 
Registry.

Narula N(1), Devereux RB(1), Arbustini E(2), Ma X(3), Weinsaft JW(1), Girardi 
L(4), Malonga GP(1), Roman MJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(2)IRCCS Foundation Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia, Italy.
(3)Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Department of Health Care Policy 
and Research, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(4)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New 
York, USA.
(5)Division of Cardiology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York, USA. 
Electronic address: mroman@med.cornell.edu.

BACKGROUND: With preventive aortic grafting decreasing the incidence of type A 
dissections in Marfan syndrome (MFS), most dissections are now type B, for which 
risk factors remain largely uncertain.
OBJECTIVES: We explored the determinants of type B dissection risk in a large, 
single-center MFS registry.
METHODS: Demographic and anthropometric features, cardiovascular disease, and 
surgical history were compared in patients with MFS with and without type B 
dissection.
RESULTS: Of 336 patients with MFS, 47 (14%) experienced a type B dissection (vs 
type A in 9%). Patients with type B dissection were more likely to have 
undergone elective aortic root replacement (ARR) (79 vs 46%; P < 0.001). Of the 
patients, 55% had type B dissection a mean of 13.3 years after ARR, whereas 45% 
experienced type B dissection before or in the absence of ARR; 41 patients (87%) 
were aware of their MFS diagnosis before type B dissection. Among those with 
predissection imaging, the descending aorta was normal or minimally dilated 
(<4.0 cm) in 88%. In multivariable analyses, patients with type B dissection 
were more likely to have undergone ARR and independent mitral valve surgery, to 
have had a type II dissection, and to have lived longer.
CONCLUSIONS: In our contemporary cohort, type B dissections are more common than 
type A dissections and occur at traditional nonsurgical thresholds. The 
associations of type B dissection with ARR, independent mitral valve surgery, 
and type II dissection suggest a more severe phenotype in the setting of 
prolonged life expectancy.

Copyright © 2023 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2023.08.055
PMID: 37930285

Conflict of interest statement: Funding Support and Author Disclosures Research 
support was provided by grants from the Vital Funds Project and the Michael Wolk 
Heart Foundation. Dr. Narula is partially supported by the Weill Cornell 
Medicine Fund for the Future Award as a Kellen Scholar. Drs Narula, Devereux, 
Roman, and Weinsaft are partially supported by the National Institutes of Health 
award R01 23-04025952. All other authors have reported that they have no 
relationships relevant to the contents of this paper to disclose.


429. JAMA. 2023 Nov 6. doi: 10.1001/jama.2023.22614. Online ahead of print.

American Indian and Alaska Native Life Expectancy: Writing a New Narrative.

Parker T(1), Kelley A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, University of New Mexico, Center 
for Native American Health, a Public Health Institute for Indigenous Knowledge & 
Development, Albuquerque, New Mexico.
(2)Allyson Kelley & Associates PLLC, Sisters, Oregon.

Plain Language Summary: This Viewpoint examines disparities and inequalities 
regarding life expectancy in American Indian and Alaska Native populations and 
what can be done to address them.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2023.22614
PMID: 37930691


430. Sex Med Rev. 2023 Oct 31:qead044. doi: 10.1093/sxmrev/qead044. Online ahead
of  print.

Mapping the contributions of dyadic approaches to couples' psychosocial 
adaptation to prostate cancer: a scoping review.

Castro RF(1), Araújo S(2), Marques A(1), Ferreira D(1), Rocha H(1), Aguiar S(1), 
Pieramico S(1), Quinta-Gomes A(1), Tavares IM(3), Nobre PJ(1), Carvalho J(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Psychology at the University of Porto, Faculty of Psychology and 
Educational Sciences at University of Porto, Porto, 4200-135, Portugal.
(2)School of Psychology, University of Minho, Braga, 4710-057, Portugal.
(3)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Dalhousie University, Halifax, B3H 
4R2, Canada.
(4)William James Center for Research, Department of Education and Psychology, 
University of Aveiro, Aveiro, 3810-193, Portugal.

INTRODUCTION: Prostate cancer is the second-most prevalent cancer diagnosis 
worldwide among males. Although prostate cancer affects the physical, sexual, 
and mental health of patients, the impact of prostate cancer on partners has 
also been increasingly recognized. Hence, taking a dyadic approach is of 
relevance. Moreover, there is evidence of the utility of dyadic approaches to 
the study of relational stress that chronic diseases such as prostate cancer can 
bring to couples, even though knowledge is sparse about prostate cancer.
OBJECTIVES: This scoping review aimed to map existing dyadic studies on the 
psychosocial adaptation of couples to prostate cancer.
METHODS: A systematic search of studies published from 2005 to November 2022 was 
conducted on electronic databases (PubMed, Cochrane Library, EBSCOHost, Scopus, 
and Web of Science) following PRISMA-ScR (Preferred Reporting Items for 
Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses-Extension for Scoping Reviews).
RESULTS: The review included 25 eligible studies from the initial 2514 articles 
retrieved. Overall, the results emphasized the interdependency between couple 
members and suggested how partners' adaptation influences patients' adaptation 
to prostate cancer and vice versa, regarding several psychosocial dimensions 
(eg, intimacy, quality of life).
CONCLUSIONS: This work can bring awareness to health care professionals to adopt 
a couples approach when managing prostate cancer whenever there is a partner, 
due to these interdependent influences. For researchers and future studies, this 
work can strengthen the relevance of dyadic approaches on how couples adapt to 
prostate cancer and explore which other dimensions influence these complex 
dynamics.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
International Society of Sexual Medicine. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/sxmrev/qead044
PMID: 37930753


431. PLoS One. 2023 Nov 6;18(11):e0293881. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0293881. 
eCollection 2023.

Divergences and gaps in life expectancy and health-adjusted life expectancy in 
Mexico: Contribution analysis of the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

Agudelo-Botero M(1), Dávila-Cervantes CA(2), Velasco-Calderón O(3), 
Giraldo-Rodríguez L(4).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigación en Políticas, Población y Salud, Universidad Nacional 
Autónoma de México, Mexico City, Mexico.
(2)Facultad Latinoamericana de Ciencias Sociales (FLACSO), Sede México, Mexico 
City, Mexico.
(3)Plan de Estudios Combinados en Medicina, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad 
Nacional Autónoma de México, Mexico City, Mexico.
(4)Instituto Nacional de Geriatría, Mexico City, Mexico.

INTRODUCTION: Life expectancy (LE) and Health-adjusted life expectancy (HALE) 
are summary indicators that reflect a population's general life conditions and 
measure inequities in health outcomes. The objective of this study was to 
identify the differences in LE and HALE by sex, age group, and state in Mexico 
from 1990 to 2019. Also, to evaluate whether the changes in HALE are related to 
sociodemographic indicators and indicators of access to and quality of health 
services.
METHODS: A secondary analysis was performed based on the Global Burden of 
Disease, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD). Data were obtained for LE (by 
sex and state) and HALE (by sex, age group, and state) for the years 1990, 2010, 
and 2019. The correlations between HALE with the Socio-Demographic Index (SDI) 
and with the Healthcare Access and Quality (HAQ) Index were estimated for 1990 
and 2019 (by total population and sex).
RESULTS: LE and HALE had an absolute increase of 6.7% and 6.4% from 1990 to 
2019, mainly among women, although they spent more years in poor health (11.8 
years) than men. The patterns of LE and HALE were heterogeneous and divergent by 
state. In 2019, the difference in HALE (for both sex) between the states with 
the highest (Hidalgo) and the lowest (Chiapas) value was 4.6 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Progress in LE and HALE has slowed in recent years; HALE has even 
had setbacks in some states. Gaps between men and women, as well as between 
states, are persistent. Public and population policymaking should seek to 
lengthen LE and focus on ensuring that such years are spent in good health and 
with good quality of life.

Copyright: © 2023 Agudelo-Botero et al. This is an open access article 
distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which 
permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided 
the original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0293881
PMCID: PMC10627469
PMID: 37930966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist


432. Soins. 2023 Nov;68(880):36-38. doi: 10.1016/j.soin.2023.09.010. Epub 2023
Oct  23.

[Cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas: a complication of severe forms of 
hereditary epidermolysis bullosa].

[Article in French]

Bourrat E(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de dermatologie, Centre de référence des maladies rares de la peau et 
des muqueuses d'origine génétique (Magec) Nord, Site Saint-Louis, Hôpital 
Saint-Louis, AP-HP, 1, avenue Claude-Vellefaux, 75010 Paris, France. Electronic 
address: emmanuelle.bourrat@aphp.fr.

Despite an increase in life expectancy and quality of life for patients 
suffering from severe forms of hereditary epidermolysis bullosa, the occurrence 
of one or more cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas remains a sometimes serious 
complication, sometimes life-threatening as early as adolescence. These 
carcinomas occur preferably on chronic wounds or dystrophic scars in areas not 
exposed to the sun, and are generally multifocal and recurrent. Their clinical 
and histological diagnosis is difficult. Regular medical and paramedical 
monitoring of the skin during dressing repairs enables early detection and 
rapid, curative surgical management. The pathophysiology of these cutaneous 
carcinomas is the subject of research aimed at proposing non-surgical 
alternatives to the patients concerned.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soin.2023.09.010
PMID: 37931996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Nat Food. 2023 Nov;4(11):941-948. doi: 10.1038/s43016-023-00867-x. Epub 2023
Nov  6.

Large language models and agricultural extension services.

Tzachor A(1)(2), Devare M(3), Richards C(4)(5), Pypers P(3), Ghosh A(6), Koo 
J(7), Johal S(8), King B(9).

Author information:
(1)CSER, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. atzachor@runi.ac.il.
(2)School of Sustainability, Reichman University, Herzliya, Israel. 
atzachor@runi.ac.il.
(3)International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), CGIAR, Ibadan, 
Nigeria.
(4)CSER, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(5)Department of Engineering, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(6)International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), CGIAR, Nairobi, Kenya.
(7)International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), CGIAR, Washington, DC, 
USA.
(8)Agstack Project, Linux Foundation, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(9)Digital and Data Innovation Accelerator, CGIAR, Palmira, Colombia.

Several factors have traditionally hampered the effectiveness of agricultural 
extension services, including limited institutional capacity and reach. Here we 
assess the potential of large language models (LLMs), specifically Generative 
Pre-trained Transformer (GPT), to transform agricultural extension. We focus on 
the ability of LLMs to simplify scientific knowledge and provide personalized, 
location-specific and data-driven agricultural recommendations. We emphasize 
shortcomings of this technology, informed by real-life testing of GPT to 
generate technical advice for Nigerian cassava farmers. To ensure a safe and 
responsible dissemination of LLM functionality across farming worldwide, we 
propose an idealized LLM design process with human experts in the loop.

© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s43016-023-00867-x
PMID: 37932438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Epidemiol Psychiatr Sci. 2023 Nov 7;32:e63. doi: 10.1017/S2045796023000756.

Changing trends in the global burden of mental disorders from 1990 to 2019 and 
predicted levels in 25 years.

Wu Y(1), Wang L(2)(3)(4), Tao M(1), Cao H(5), Yuan H(6), Ye M(7), Chen 
X(2)(3)(4), Wang K(5)(6)(7)(8), Zhu C(5)(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Health Management Center, Yijishan Hospital of Wannan Medical College, Wuhu, 
241001, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, Hefei, China.
(3)Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Cognition and Neuropsychiatric Disorders, 
Hefei, China.
(4)Collaborative Innovation Center for Neuropsychiatric Disorders and Mental 
Health, Hefei, China.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Yijishan Hospital of Wannan Medical College, 
Wuhu, China.
(6)School of Public Health, Wannan Medical College, Wuhu, China.
(7)School of Medical Information, Wannan Medical College, Wuhu, China.
(8)School of Mental Health and Psychological Sciences, Anhui Medical University, 
Hefei, China.

AIMS: The burden of mental disorders is increasing worldwide, thus, affecting 
society and healthcare systems. This study investigated the independent 
influences of age, period and cohort on the global prevalence of mental 
disorders from 1990 to 2019; compared them by sex; and predicted the future 
burden of mental disorders in the next 25 years.
METHODS: The age-specific and sex-specific incidence of mental disorders 
worldwide was analysed according to the general analysis strategy used in the 
Global Burden of Disease Study in 2019. The incidence and mortality trends of 
mental disorders from 1990 to 2019 were evaluated through joinpoint regression 
analysis. The influences of age, period and cohort on the incidence of mental 
disorders were evaluated with an age-period-cohort model.
RESULTS: From 1990 to 2019, the sex-specific age-standardized incidence and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALY) rate decreased slightly. Joinpoint 
regression analysis from 1990 to 2019 indicated four turning points in the male 
DALY rate and five turning points in the female DALY rate. In analysis of age 
effects, the relative risk (RR) of incidence and the DALY rate in mental 
disorders in men and women generally showed an inverted U-shaped pattern with 
increasing age. In analysis of period effects, the incidence of mental disorders 
increased gradually over time, and showed a sub-peak in 2004 (RR, 1.006 for 
males; 95% CI, 1.000-1.012; 1.002 for women, 0.997-1.008). Analysis of cohort 
effects showed that the incidence and DALY rate decreased in successive birth 
cohorts. The incidence of mental disorders is expected to decline slightly over 
the next 25 years, but the number of cases is expected to increase.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the age-standardized burden of mental disorders has 
declined in the past 30 years, the number of new cases and deaths of mental 
disorders worldwide has increased, and will continue to increase in the near 
future. Therefore, relevant policies should be used to promote the prevention 
and management of known risk factors and strengthen the understanding of risk 
profiles and incidence modes of mental disorders, to help guide future research 
on control and prevention strategies.

DOI: 10.1017/S2045796023000756
PMID: 37933540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Prog Community Health Partnersh. 2021;15(3):327-336. doi:
10.1353/cpr.2021.0035.

Addressing Children's Nutritional Needs with Community-Based Participatory 
Action Research.

Jarrott SE, Juckett LA, Naar JJ, Scrivano RM, Lobb JM.

BACKGROUND: The absence of consistent, reliable, culturally appropriate access 
to nutritious food places children's development at risk. Nutrition education 
programming that is delivered using intergenerational strategies may help 
optimize children's access, consumption, and knowledge of healthy foods.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this article is to present the development, 
implementation and lessons learned from the first year of Food for a Long Life 
(FFLL) programming-an intergenerational community-based participatory action 
research (CBPAR) project joining Extension staff, researchers, and community 
partners to increase families' knowledge, access, and consumption regarding 
healthy food in a food insecure community. Preschoolers, their family members, 
and older adults were recruited from two preschools and one adult day services 
center.
METHODS: Collaborations with community stakeholders informed the development and 
implementation of intergenerational nutrition education delivered during FFLL 
programming. Preschoolers, families, and older adults participated in twenty-six 
nutrition education sessions during the programming year. Parents of 
preschoolers completed the Household Food Security Survey (HHFS) and the Healthy 
Kids measure. Semistructured interview data from staff were also collected upon 
the conclusion of programming.
RESULTS: Preschoolers and their families were found to have marginal food 
security but relatively healthy eating behaviors. Staff believed FFLL 
programming enhanced preschoolers' eating behaviors (e.g., increased willingness 
to try new foods). Continued collaborations with community partners were viewed 
as essential to program success.
CONCLUSIONS: Relationship-building among intergenerational community members, 
Extension staff, and university researchers strengthens trust and may expand the 
reach of FFLL programming and research components.

DOI: 10.1353/cpr.2021.0035
PMID: 37934420


436. Rev Med Inst Mex Seguro Soc. 2023 Oct 2;61(Suppl 3):S395-S406. doi: 
10.5281/zenodo.8319815.

[Risk factors associated with cognitive impairment in aged: Cross-sectional 
study].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Moreno-Noguez M(1), Castillo-Cruz J(2), García-Cortés LR(3), Gómez-Hernández 
HR(4).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Unidad de Medicina Familiar No. 55, 
Departamento de Enseñanza. Zumpango, Estado de México, México.
(2)Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Facultad de Medicina, Unidad de Posgrado. 
Ciudad de México, México.
(3)Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Órgano de Operación Administrativa 
Desconcentrada Regional Estado de México Oriente, Jefatura de Prestaciones 
Médicas. Naucalpan, Estado de México, México.
(4)Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Unidad de Medicina Familiar No. 52, 
Consulta Externa. Cuautitlán Izcalli, Estado de México, México.

BACKGROUND: With the increase in life expectancy, conditions related to older 
age have increased in incidence, one of these pathologies is Cognitive 
Impairment (CI), which has a prevalence of up to 28%, conditions that increase 
the presence of CI are known. However, there is controversy about the factors 
that increase the risk of CI.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the factors associated with cognitive impairment in 
older adults.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional, analytical, observational, 
retroprolective study that included adults ≥65 years of age, with no history of 
cerebral vascular event, cranioencephalic trauma. Demographic factors were 
analyzed, CI was assessed with the Mini Mental State Examination test. For 
statistical analysis we used Odds Ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (95% 
CI) for each factor and multiple logistic regression as multivariate analysis.
RESULTS: 420 older adults were included, 61% were women, 32.6% with age >75 
years, 84.5% with schooling <9 years, in the multiple logistic regression the 
following were independent factors for the presence of mild CI: dependence on 
basic activities of daily living (ADLs) with OR 5.88, absence of cognitive 
stimulation RM 4.50, age >75 years OR 2.92, polypharmacy OR 2.16, uncontrolled 
blood pressure OR 1.92.
CONCLUSION: ADLs dependence, absence of cognitive stimulation, age >75 years, 
polypharmacy and uncontrolled blood pressure are risk factors associated with CI 
in older adults.

Publisher: INTRODUCCIÓN: con el aumento en la esperanza de vida las condiciones 
relacionadas con mayor edad incrementaron su incidencia; una de estas patologías 
es el deterioro cognitivo (DC) que presenta una prevalencia de hasta el 28%, hoy 
en día se conocen condiciones que aumentan la presencia de DC. Sin embargo, 
existe controversia sobre los factores que aumentan el riesgo para su presencia.
OBJETIVO: determinar los factores asociados al deterioro cognitivo en adultos 
mayores.
MATERIAL Y MÉTODOS: se realizó un estudio transversal, analítico, observacional, 
retroprolectivo que incluyó a adultos ≥ 65 años, sin antecedente de evento 
vascular cerebral o traumatismo craneoencefálico. Se analizaron factores 
demográficos, el DC se evaluó con la prueba Mini-Mental. Para el análisis 
estadístico se usó razón de momios (RM) e intervalo de confianza al 95% (IC95%) 
para cada factor y como análisis multivariado, regresión logística múltiple.
RESULTADOS: se incluyeron 420 adultos mayores, de los cuales el 61% eran 
mujeres, el 32.6% tenían edad > 75 años, el 84.5% con escolarización < 9 años. 
En la regresión logística múltiple los siguientes fueron factores independientes 
para la presencia de DC leve: la dependencia de actividades básicas de la vida 
diaria (ABVD), ausencia de estimulación cognitiva, edad > 75 años, polifarmacia 
y descontrol de tensión arterial.
CONCLUSIÓN: la dependencia de ABVD, ausencia de estimulación cognitiva, edad > 
75 años, polifarmacia y descontrol de la tensión arterial son factores de riesgo 
asociados al DC en adultos mayores.

Licencia CC 4.0 (BY-NC-ND) © 2023 Revista Médica del Instituto Mexicano del 
Seguro Social.

DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.8319815
PMID: 37934797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Rev Med Inst Mex Seguro Soc. 2023 Oct 2;61(Suppl 3):S468-S476. doi: 
10.5281/zenodo.8319739.

[Impact of attend to day care associated with healthy weight in infants and 
preschoolers].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Lua-Bernal F(1), Ruíz-Betancourt BS(2), Rivas-Ruiz R(3), López-Mayorga RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Escuela Superior de Medicina, Sección de 
Estudios de Posgrado e Investigación. Ciudad de México, México.
(2)Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Coordinación de Vigilancia 
Epidemiológica Ciudad de México, México.
(3)Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Coordinación de investigación en Salud, 
Centro de Adiestramiento e Investigación Clínica, Ciudad de México, México.

BACKGROUND: Being overweight affects millions of infants and preschoolers in the 
world, affecting their quality and life expectancy. Exposure to day care centers 
may play an important role in preventing unhealthy weight (UW).
OBJECTIVE: To point out the prevalence and association of day care exposure and 
other factors associated with UW in infants and preschoolers.
METHODS: An analytical cross-sectional study was carried out. Infant population 
aged 6-47 months without comorbidities that compromised their nutritional status 
were included, and those with formal childcare different from the selected day 
care were excluded. Exposure to day care, and other factors (perinatal, physical 
activity, nutritional, and familiar) were evaluated. A z score > 1 SD was 
considered UW. Prevalence, odds ratios (OR), 95% confidence intervals (95%CI) 
and adjusted RM by low birth weight, initiation of complementary feeding, 
consumption of sugary drinks, daytime naps, maternal nutritional status, and 
family income quintile through logistic regression.
RESULTS: The overall prevalence of UW was 17.84% (95%CI: 14.93-21.16), 11.84 
(95%CI: 8.54-16.14) for children exposed to day care, and 23.78% (95%CI: 
19.21-29.02) in unexposed infant population, showing significant differences 
between both prevalences (p < 0.001). The adjusted OR for UW presentation was 
0.39 (95% CI: 0.23-0.66).
CONCLUSIONS: Exposure to IMSS day care has shown to be a possible protective 
environment against the development of a UW.

Publisher: INTRODUCCIÓN: el sobrepeso afecta a millones de lactantes y 
preescolares en el mundo afectando su calidad y esperanza de vida. La exposición 
a guarderías puede jugar un papel importante para prevenir un peso no saludable 
(PNS).
OBJETIVO: indicar la prevalencia y la asociación de la exposición a guarderías y 
otros factores asociados con el PNS en lactantes y preescolares.
MÉTODOS: se realizó un estudio transversal analítico. Se incluyó población 
infantil de 6-47 meses sin comorbilidades que comprometieran su estado 
nutricional y se excluyeron a aquellos con un cuidado infantil formal diferente 
al de las guarderías seleccionadas. Se evaluó la exposición a guardería, y otros 
factores (perinatales, actividad física, nutricionales, y familiares). Se 
consideró PNS una puntuación z > 1 DE. Se obtuvieron prevalencias, razones de 
momios (RM), intervalos de confianza del 95% (IC95%) y RM ajustadas por edad, 
bajo peso al nacer, inicio de la alimentación complementaria, consumo de bebidas 
azucaradas, siestas diurnas, estado nutricional materno y quintil de ingreso 
familiar a través de regresión logística.
RESULTADOS: la prevalencia general de PNS fue de 17.84% (IC95%:14.93-21.16), 
11.84 (IC95%: 8.54-16.14) para la población infantil expuesta a guarderías, y 
23.78% (IC95%: 19.21-29.02) en no expuestos, mostrando diferencias 
significativas entre ambas prevalencias (p < 0.001). La RM ajustada para la 
presentación de PNS fue de 0.39 (IC95%: 0.23-0.66) para exposición a guardería.
CONCLUSIONES: la exposición a guarderías IMSS mostró ser un posible ambiente 
protector contra el desarrollo de un PNS.

Licencia CC 4.0 (BY-NC-ND) © 2023 Revista Médica del Instituto Mexicano del 
Seguro Social.

DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.8319739
PMID: 37934941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. J Korean Med Sci. 2023 Nov 6;38(43):e337. doi: 10.3346/jkms.2023.38.e337.

Comprehensive Measurement of the Burden of Disease due to Adverse Events: A New 
Analysis of the Cross-Sectional Patient Safety Incident Inquiry.

Choi EY(1), Kim J(2), Lee W(1), Jang SG(3), Pyo J(4)(5), Ock M(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Chung-Ang University, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Nursing, College of Nursing, Inje University, Gimhae, Korea.
(4)Department of Preventive Medicine, Asan Medical Institute of Convergence 
Science and Technology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Department of Preventive Medicine, Ulsan University Hospital, University of 
Ulsan College of Medicine, Ulsan, Korea.
(6)Department of Preventive Medicine, Ulsan University Hospital, University of 
Ulsan College of Medicine, Ulsan, Korea. ohohoms@naver.com.

BACKGROUND: A methodology for comprehensively and reasonably measuring the 
burden of disease due to adverse events has yet to be clearly established. In 
this study, a new and systematic method for measuring the burden of disease due 
to adverse events was tested by utilizing the results of a medical record 
review, which is commonly used as a gold standard.
METHODS: Using the characteristics of preventable adverse events identified in 
the 2019 Patient Safety Incidents Inquiry (PSII), conducted to monitor the level 
of patient safety in Korea accurately, the resulting disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs) and economic costs were estimated. DALYs were calculated as the 
sum of the years lived with a disability for patients who suffered permanent 
disability, or more, due to preventable adverse events, and the years of life 
lost due to premature mortality was calculated for patients who died due to 
preventable adverse events. The economic cost was calculated using the main 
diagnostic codes of patients who suffered preventable adverse events, identified 
as prolonged hospitalization in PSII, and the average medical cost by disease 
category and age group.
RESULTS: Estimates of DALYs due to preventable adverse events were 1,114.4 DALYs 
per 100,000 population for the minimum standard and 1,658.5 DALYs per 100,000 
population for the maximum standard. Compared to the 2015 Korea Burden of 
Disease results, the ranking of DALYs due to preventable adverse events was 
sixth for the minimum standard and third for the maximum standard. The annual 
medical cost of adverse events in 2016 was estimated to be approximately Korean 
Republic Won (KRW) 870 billion (700 million US dollars). Medical expenses due to 
preventable adverse events were calculated to be approximately KRW 150 billion 
(120 million US dollars) as a minimum standard and approximately KRW 300 billion 
(240 million US dollars) as a maximum standard.
CONCLUSION: If this more standard method of systematically calculating the 
disease burden due to adverse events is used, it will be possible to compare the 
size of the patient safety problem with that of other diseases. The results of 
this study indicate that we still need to pay more attention to the issue of 
patient safety.

© 2023 The Korean Academy of Medical Sciences.

DOI: 10.3346/jkms.2023.38.e337
PMCID: PMC10627726
PMID: 37935164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no potential conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


439. J Mol Biol. 2023 Nov 5;435(24):168354. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2023.168354.
Online  ahead of print.

Cancer and Autism: How PTEN Mutations Degrade Function at the Membrane and 
Isoform Expression in the Human Brain.

Jang H(1), Chen J(2), Iakoucheva LM(3), Nussinov R(4).

Author information:
(1)Computational Structural Biology Section, Frederick National Laboratory for 
Cancer Research in the Cancer Innovation Laboratory, National Cancer Institute, 
Frederick, MD 21702, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA 
92093, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA 
92093, USA; Institute for Genomic Medicine, University of California San Diego, 
La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.
(4)Computational Structural Biology Section, Frederick National Laboratory for 
Cancer Research in the Cancer Innovation Laboratory, National Cancer Institute, 
Frederick, MD 21702, USA; Department of Human Molecular Genetics and 
Biochemistry, Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, 
Israel. Electronic address: NussinoR@mail.nih.gov.

Mutations causing loss of PTEN lipid phosphatase activity can promote cancer, 
benign tumors (PHTS), and neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs). Exactly how they 
preferentially trigger distinct phenotypic outcomes has been puzzling. Here, we 
demonstrate that PTEN mutations differentially allosterically bias P loop 
dynamics and its connection to the catalytic site, affecting catalytic activity. 
NDD-related mutations are likely to sample conformations of the functional 
wild-type state, while sampled conformations for the strong, cancer-related 
driver mutation hotspots favor catalysis-primed conformations, suggesting that 
NDD mutations are likely to be weaker, and our large-scale simulations show why. 
Prenatal PTEN isoform expression data suggest exons 5 and 7, which harbor NDD 
mutations, as cancer-risk carriers. Since cancer requires more than a single 
