
BACKGROUND: Noncanonical Wnts are morphogens that can elevate intracellular Ca2+ 
, activate the Ca2+ /calmodulin-dependent protein kinase, CaMKII, and promote 
cell movements during vertebrate gastrulation.
RESULTS: Zebrafish express seven CaMKII genes during embryogenesis; two of 
these, camk2b1 and camk2g1, are necessary for convergent extension (CE) cell 
movements. CaMKII morphant phenotypes were observed as early as epiboly. At the 
1-3 somite stage, neuroectoderm and paraxial cells remained unconverged in both 
morphants. Later, somites lacked their stereotypical shape and were wider, more 
closely spaced, and body gap angles increased. At 24hpf, somite compression and 
notochord undulation coincided with a shorter and broader body axis. A camk2b1 
crispant was generated which phenocopied the camk2b1 morphant. The levels of 
cell proliferation, apoptosis and paraxial and neuroectodermal markers were 
unchanged in morphants. Hyperactivation of CaMKII during gastrulation by 
transient pharmacological intervention (thapsigargin) also caused CE defects. 
Mosaically expressed dominant-negative CaMKII recapitulated these phenotypes and 
showed significant midline bifurcation. Finally, the introduction of CaMKII 
partially rescued Wnt11 morphant phenotypes.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, these data support a model whereby cyclically activated 
CaMKII encoded from two genes enables cell migration during the process of CE.

© 2023 The Authors. Developmental Dynamics published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on 
behalf of American Association for Anatomy.

DOI: 10.1002/dvdy.665
PMID: 37860955


239. J Glob Health. 2023 Oct 20;13:04123. doi: 10.7189/jogh.13.04123.

Spatiotemporal patterns of healthy life expectancy and the effects of health 
financing in West African countries, 1995-2019: A Spatial Panel Modelling Study.

Zeng M, Niu L.

BACKGROUND: Health financing produce a broad range of healthy life expectancy 
(HLE) disparities. In West Africa, limited research exists on the association 
between health financing and HLE at ecological level during a consecutive period 
of time from the spatial perspectives. This study aimed to determine the 
existence, quantify the magnitude, and interpret the association between health 
financing and HLE.
METHODS: A Dynamic Spatial Durbin model was used to explain the association 
between HLE and health financing level and structure during 1995-2019 in West 
Africa. Spatial spillover effects were introduced to interpret the direct and 
indirect effects caused by health financing level and structure on HLE during 
the long and short terms.
RESULTS: Spatial dependence and clustering on HLE were observed in West Africa. 
Although the overall level of total health spending, government health spending, 
out-of-pocket health spending, and development assistance for health (DAH) 
increased from 1995 to 2019, government health spending per person experienced a 
declining trend. Out-of-pocket health spending per total health spending was the 
highest among other sources of health financing, decreasing from 57% during 
1995-1999 to 42% during 2015-2019. Total health spending and out-of-pocket 
health spending affected HLE positively and negatively in the long term, 
respectively. Government health spending and prepaid private health spending per 
person had positive effects on local and adjacent country HLE in the short-term, 
while DAH had negative effects on the same. The short-term spatial spillover 
effects of government health spending, DAH, and prepaid private health spending 
per person were more pronounced than the long-term effects.
CONCLUSIONS: Spatial variations of HLE existed at country-level in West Africa. 
Health financing regarding government, non-government, as well as external 
assistance not only affected HLE disparities at local scale but also among 
nearby countries. Policymakers should optimise supportive health financing 
transition policies and narrow the national gap to reduce health disparities and 
increase HLE. Externalities of policy of those health financing proxies should 
be took into consideration to promote health equity to improve global health 
governance.

Copyright © 2023 by the Journal of Global Health. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.7189/jogh.13.04123
PMCID: PMC10588290
PMID: 37861131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of interest: The authors completed 
the ICMJE Disclosure of Interest Form (available upon request from the 
corresponding author) and disclose no relevant interests.


240. AIDS. 2023 Oct 18. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000003754. Online ahead of print.

People with HIV at the end of life and their next-of-kin/loved ones are willing 
to participate in interventional HIV cure-related research.

Ndukwe SO(1)(2), Patel H(1)(2), Shelton B(3), Concha-Garcia S(4)(5), Dullano 
C(4), Solso S(4), Hendrickx S(4), Riggs PK(1), Villa TJ(6), Kaytes A(7), Taylor 
J(7)(8), Little SJ(1)(4), Lessard D(9)(10)(11), Arora AK(10)(11)(12), Costiniuk 
CT(9)(13)(14)(15), Eskaf S(16), Smith DM(1)(4), Gianella S(1)(4), Dubé K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases and Global Public Health, School of Medicine, 
University of California San Diego (UCSD), CA, USA.
(2)UNC Gillings School of Global Public Health, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(3)Department of Public Health, College of Education, Health and Human Sciences, 
University of Tennessee Knoxville, TN, USA.
(4)AntiViral Research Center (AVRC), University of California San Diego, San 
Diego, CA, USA.
(5)HIV Neurobehavioral Research Center, University of California San Diego, San 
Diego, CA, USA.
(6)HIV Obstruction by Programmed Epigenetics (HOPE) Collaboratory Community 
Advisory Board, Rockville, MD, USA.
(7)UCSD AntiViral Research Center Community Advisory Board, San Diego, CA, USA.
(8)HIV + Aging Research Project Palm Springs (HARP-PS), Palm Springs, CA, USA.
(9)Division of Infectious Diseases and Chronic Viral Illness Service, Department 
of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, McGill University Health Center 
(MUCH), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(10)Canadian Institutes of Health Research Strategy for Patient-Oriented 
Research Mentorship Chair in Innovative Clinical Trials, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(11)Center for Outcome Research and Evaluation, Research Institute of the McGill 
University Health Center, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(12)Department of Family Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(13)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases and Department of 
Microbiology and Immunology, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(14)Division of Experimental Medicine, Department of Medicine, McGill University 
Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(15)Infectious Diseases and Immunity in Global Health Program, Research 
Institute of the McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(16)Public Health Research Consultant, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The Last Gift study at the University of California San Diego, 
United States enrolls terminally ill people with HIV (PWH) in HIV cure research.
METHODS: From 2017 - 2022, we conducted surveys with Last Gift participants and 
their next-of-kin/loved ones to evaluate willingness to participate in different 
types of HIV cure research at the end of life. We analyzed willingness data 
descriptively.
RESULTS: We surveyed 17 Last Gift participants and 17 next-of-kin/loved ones. 
More than half of Last Gift participants (n = 10; 58.8%) expressed willingness 
to participate in studies involving totally new treatments or approaches 
("first-in-human" studies), a combination of different approaches, the use of 
unique antibodies, proteins or molecules, or therapeutic vaccines. Under 
one-quarter of Last Gift participants (n = 4; 23.5%) expressed willingness to 
participate in research involving interventions that may shorten their life 
expectancy to benefit medical research. Most Last Gift participants and their 
next-of-kin/loved ones also expressed high acceptance for various types of 
donations and biopsies at the end of life (e.g., hair donations and skin, lymph 
node or gut biopsies).
DISCUSSION: Knowing whether people would be willing to participate in different 
types of EOL HIV cure research can help inform the design of future innovative 
studies. As a research community, we have a duty to design studies with adequate 
safeguards to preserve the public trust in research and honor PWH's important 
gift to humanity.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000003754
PMID: 37861674241. Handb Exp Pharmacol. 2023 Oct 21. doi: 10.1007/164_2023_696. Online ahead of
 print.

Looking to the Future: Drug Delivery and Targeting in the Prophylaxis and 
Therapy of Severe and Chronic Diseases.

Schäfer-Korting M(1).

Author information:
(1)Freie Universität Berlin, Pharmacology and Toxicology, Berlin, Germany. 
monika.schaefer-korting@fu-berlin.de.

High molecular weight actives and cell-based therapy have the potential to 
revolutionize the prophylaxis and therapy of severe diseases. Yet, the size and 
nature of the agents - proteins, nucleic acids, cells - challenge drug delivery 
and thus formulation development. Moreover, off-target effects may result in 
severe adverse drug reactions. This makes delivery and targeting an essential 
component of high-end drug development. Loading to nanoparticles facilitates 
delivery and enables targeted mRNA vaccines and tumor therapeutics. Stem cell 
therapy opens up a new horizon in diabetes type 1 among other domains which may 
enhance the quality of life and life expectancy. Cell encapsulation protects 
transplants against the recipient's immune system, may ensure long-term 
efficacy, avoid severe adverse reactions, and simplify the management of rare 
and fatal diseases.The knowledge gained so far encourages to widen the spectrum 
of potential indications. Co-development of the active agent and the vehicle has 
the potential to accelerate drug research. One recommended starting point is the 
use of computational approaches. Transferability of preclinical data to humans 
will benefit from performing studies first on validated human 3D disease models 
reflecting the target tissue, followed by studies on validated animal models. 
This makes approaching a new level in drug development a multidisciplinary but 
ultimately worthwhile and attainable challenge. Intense monitoring of the 
patients after drug approval and periodic reporting to physicians and scientists 
remain essential for the safe use of drugs especially in rare diseases and pave 
future research.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/164_2023_696
PMID: 37861719


242. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2023 Nov;30(53):114514-114524. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-023-30336-8. Epub 2023 Oct 20.

The burden of ischemic heart disease attributable to ambient and household 
particulate matter pollution, 1990-2019: a global analysis.

Fan J(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Viral Disease Control and Prevention, Chinese Center 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, 102206, China. BigCat0419@163.com.

Elevated risk of ischemic heart disease (IHD) is associated with exposure to 
fine particulate matter. However, there is limited data on trends and 
comparisons in the global burden of IHD due to household air pollution from 
solid fuels (HAP) and ambient particulate matter pollution (APMP), particularly 
in regions of varying socio-economic levels. Based on the Global Burden of 
Disease Study 2019 (GBD 2019), we obtained age-standardized mortality rates 
(ASMR) and age-standardized disability-adjusted life years (ASDR) of IHD due to 
APMP and HAP from 1990 to 2019. Trends in the burden of IHD attributable to APMP 
and HAP during the period 1990 to 2019 were calculated by Joinpoint models. We 
estimated the relationship between ASMR with the socio-demographic indexes (SDI) 
and the health care accessibility and quality (HAQ) index by the Loess 
regression model. In 2019, the global burden of IHD ASMR attributed to APMP 
stabilized, but the most significant increases were observed in low-middle SDI 
regions. The global IHD ASMR attributed to APMP was 16.60 [95% Uncertainty 
Interval (UI), 13.61 to 19.44] per 100,000 population, with the highest APMP 
burden in middle SDI regions. From 1990 to 2019, the global ASMR for 
HAP-attributable IHD declined. The global ASMR of IHD attributable to HAP in 
2019 was 6.30 (95% UI, 4.28 to 8.80) per 100,000 population, with the highest 
burden observed in the low SDI regions. From 1990 to 2019, the global burden of 
ASMR and ASDR of IHD attributable to APMP showed stabilization, whereas the HAP 
burden exhibited a decrease. There are a large burden of APMP particularly in 
middle SDI countries and a higher burden of HAP in low SDI countries. The burden 
of IHD due to APMP and HAP in men, the elderly, and populations in low, medium, 
and low SDI regions should be noticed.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-023-30336-8
PMID: 37861827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. J Glob Health. 2023 Oct 20;13:06042. doi: 10.7189/jogh.13.06042.

Effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on life expectancy at birth at the global, 
regional, and national levels: A joinpoint time-series analysis.

Cao G(1), Liu J(1)(2), Liu M(1)(2), Liang W(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Epidemiology of Major Diseases, Ministry of Education, 
Peking University, Beijing, China.
(3)Vanke School of Public Health, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.
(4)Institute for Healthy China, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Current estimates indicate that coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) 
caused 14.9 million excess deaths in 2020 and 2021. Thus, estimating the change 
in life expectancy at birth due to the COVID-19 pandemic could aid in 
understanding its impact and implementing public health initiatives.
METHODS: We collected data on the life expectancy at birth of the combined 
population between 1990 and 2021 at the global, regional, and national levels 
from the 2022 Revision of World Population Prospects. In this time series study, 
we estimated the trend segments, the change of trend years (joinpoints), the 
annual percentage change (APC) in life expectancy at birth within each trend 
segment, and the average APC (AAPC) in life expectancy at birth during the full 
study period using joinpoint regression analysis.
RESULTS: The global life expectancy at birth decreased from 72.8 years in 2019 
to 71.0 years in 2021, with an annual decrease of 1.2% (95% confidence interval 
(CI) = 1.0, 1.5) during the 2019-2021 period, despite an overall increasing 
trend during the entire period from 1990 to 2021 (AAPC = 0.3%; 95% CI = 0.3, 
0.4). We observed a significantly increasing trend in life expectancy at birth 
in all regions and nearly 87.7% (207/236) of the world's countries and areas 
during the entire period (1990-2021). All continental regions except Africa and 
Oceania experienced a significant decreasing trend in life expectancy at birth 
in 2019-2021, with an APC of -1.2% (95% CI = -1.5, -0.9) for Asia, -2.1% (95% 
CI = -2.7, -1.6) for Latin America and the Caribbean, -1.1% (95% CI = -1.6, 
-0.6) for Northern America, and -1.4% (95% CI = -1.9, -0.9) for Europe. Among 
all countries and areas, 107 countries and areas (45.3%) experienced a 
significant decreasing trend in life expectancy at birth in the most recent time 
segment, with 77 countries and areas (32.6%) experiencing a significant 
decreasing trend during the 2019-2021 period.
CONCLUSIONS: The world experienced a significant decreasing trend in life 
expectancy at birth in 2019-2021, with a decrease of 1.8 years; all continental 
regions except Africa and Oceania and 77 countries and areas experienced a 
significant decreasing trend in life expectancy at birth. These decreasing 
trends at global, regional, and national levels during the 2019-2021 period 
reflected the COVID-19 pandemic's direct and indirect adverse effects on life 
expectancy at birth.

Copyright © 2023 by the Journal of Global Health. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.7189/jogh.13.06042
PMCID: PMC10588978
PMID: 37862617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of interest: The authors completed 
the ICMJE Disclosure of Interest Form (available upon request from the 
corresponding author) and disclose no relevant interests.


244. Epilepsy Res. 2023 Nov;197:107241. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2023.107241.
Epub  2023 Oct 11.

Protein profiling in plasma for biomarkers of seizure.

Akel S(1), Banote RK(2), Asztely F(3), Zelano J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Sweden; Wallenberg Center of Molecular and Translational Medicine, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Sweden. Electronic address: 
sarah.akel@gu.se.
(2)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Sweden; Wallenberg Center of Molecular and Translational Medicine, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Sweden; Department of Neurology, 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Sweden; Department of Neurology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(4)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Sweden; Wallenberg Center of Molecular and Translational Medicine, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Sweden; Department of Neurology, 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden. Electronic address: 
johan.zelano@neuro.gu.se.

PURPOSE: A biochemical way to measure seizures would greatly benefit epilepsy 
research and clinical follow-up. Short-term biomarkers like lactate exist, and 
interest in biomarkers representative of longer-term seizure burden is growing. 
In this exploratory study, we aimed to identify markers in blood plasma that 
differentiate persons with recent seizures from persons with epilepsy and 
long-standing seizure freedom.
METHODS: A proteomic analysis was performed on plasma samples of 120 persons 
with seizures using the Olink Neuro-exploratory panel. Participants were 
selected from a regional biobank study in Västra Götaland (Sweden) and 
categorized into two groups: recent seizure and seizure-free. The panel 
contained 92 proteins linked to neurological diseases and processes, and levels 
of these proteins were compared between the patient groups to identify potential 
markers of seizure activity.
RESULTS: We identified significant differences in protein levels between the 
recent seizure and seizure-free patient groups for Cadherin-15 [(CDH15; 
p = 0.008)], Latent transforming growth factor beta-binding protein 3 [(LTBP3; 
p = 0.002)], Phosphoethanolamine/phosphocholine phosphatase 1 [(PHOSPHO1; 
p = 0.011)], and Progestagen associated endometrial protein [(PAEP; 
p = 0.0005)].
CONCLUSION: The findings in this study present CDH15, LTBP3, PHOSPHO1 and PAEP 
as candidate markers of seizure activity. Further confirmatory studies are 
needed.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2023.107241
PMID: 37862918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest JZ has 
received consultancy fee from the Swedish Medical Products Agency, speaker 
honoraria from UCB and Eisai for non-branded education events, and as employee 
of Sahlgrenska University Hospital is or has been an investigator/ sub 
investigator in clinical trials sponsored by GW Pharma, SK life science, UCB and 
Bial (no personal compensation). FA has received speaker honoraria from Angelini 
Pharma Nordics for non-branded education events. SA and RB report no conflicts 
of interest.


245. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2023 Oct 18:S0002-9378(23)00760-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajog.2023.10.030. Online ahead of print.

Relugolix Combination Therapy in Black/African American Women with Symptomatic 
Uterine Fibroids: LIBERTY Long-Term Extension Study.

Stewart EA(1), Al-Hendy A(2), Lukes AS(3), Madueke-Laveaux OS(2), Zhu E(4), 
Proehl S(4), Schulmann T(5), Marsh EE(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility, Department of 
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Mayo Clinic and Mayo Clinic Alix School of Medicine, 
Rochester, Minnesota, USA. Electronic address: Stewart.Elizabeth@mayo.edu.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Illinois at Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(3)Carolina Woman's Research and Wellness Center, Durham, North Carolina, USA.
(4)Myovant Sciences, Inc., Brisbane, California, USA.
(5)Myovant Sciences GmbH, Basel, Switzerland.
(6)Division of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility, Department of 
Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan, USA.

BACKGROUND: In the LIBERTY Long-Term Extension study, once-daily relugolix 
combination therapy (40 mg relugolix, estradiol 1 mg, norethindrone acetate 0.5 
mg) significantly improved uterine fibroid-associated heavy menstrual bleeding 
over the 52-week treatment period in the overall study population.
OBJECTIVES(S): Black/African American women typically experience greater extent 
of disease and symptom burden of uterine fibroids versus other racial groups and 
have traditionally been underrepresented in clinical trials. This secondary 
analysis aimed to assess the efficacy and safety of relugolix combination 
therapy in the subgroup population of Black/African American women with uterine 
fibroids in the LIBERTY Long-Term Extension study.
STUDY DESIGN: Black/African American premenopausal women (aged 18-50 years) with 
uterine fibroids and heavy menstrual bleeding who completed the 24-week 
randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind LIBERTY 1 (NCT03049735) or LIBERTY 
2 (NCT03103087) trials were eligible to enroll in the 28-week LIBERTY Long-Term 
Extension (NCT03412890), in which all women received once-daily, open-label 
relugolix combination therapy. The primary endpoint of this subanalysis was the 
proportion of Black/African American treatment responders: women who achieved a 
menstrual blood loss volume of <80 mL and at least a 50% reduction in menstrual 
blood loss volume from pivotal study baseline to the last 35 days of treatment 
by pivotal study randomized treatment group. Secondary outcomes included rates 
of amenorrhea, as well as changes in symptom burden and quality of life.
RESULTS: In total, 241/477 (50.5%) women enrolled into the LIBERTY Long-Term 
Extension study self-identified as Black or African American. In Black/African 
American women receiving continuous relugolix combination therapy for up to 52 
weeks, 82.9% [n=58/70; 95% confidence interval: 72.0%, 90.8%] met treatment 
responder criteria for reduction in heavy menstrual bleeding (primary endpoint). 
A substantial reduction in menstrual blood loss volume from pivotal study 
baseline to Week 52 was demonstrated (least squares mean percentage change: 
85.0%); 64.3% of women achieved amenorrhea; 59.1% of women with anemia at the 
pivotal study baseline achieved a substantial improvement (>2 g/dL) in 
hemoglobin levels; and decreased symptom severity and distress due to uterine 
fibroid-associated symptoms was demonstrated, as well as improvements in 
health-related quality of life through 52 weeks. The most frequently reported 
adverse events during the cumulative 52-week treatment period were hot flush 
(12.9%), headache (5.7%) and hypertension (5.7%). Bone mineral density was 
preserved through 52 weeks.
CONCLUSION(S): Once-daily relugolix combination therapy improved uterine 
fibroid-associated heavy menstrual bleeding in the majority of Black/African 
American women who participated in the LIBERTY Long-Term Extension. The safety 
and efficacy profile of relugolix combination therapy in Black/African American 
women was consistent with previously published results from the overall study 
population through 52 weeks. Findings from this subanalysis will assist shared 
decision-making by helping providers and Black/African American women understand 
the efficacy and safety of relugolix combination therapy as a pharmacologic 
option for the management of uterine fibroid-associated symptoms.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2023.10.030
PMID: 37863160


246. Chemosphere. 2023 Dec;345:140491. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2023.140491.
Epub  2023 Oct 18.

Targeted degradation of naphthalene by peroxymonosulfate activation using 
molecularly imprinted biochar.

You X(1), Dai C(2), Wang Z(1), Duan Y(3), Zhang JB(1), Lai X(4), Hu J(5), Li 
J(6), Maimaitijiang M(7), Zhang Y(8), Liu S(1), Fu R(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hydraulic Engineering, College of Civil Engineering, Tongji 
University, 1239 Siping Road, Shanghai, 200092, China.
(2)Department of Hydraulic Engineering, College of Civil Engineering, Tongji 
University, 1239 Siping Road, Shanghai, 200092, China. Electronic address: 
daichaomeng@tongji.edu.cn.
(3)School of Environmental and Geographical Sciences, Shanghai Normal 
University, No. 100 Guilin Road, Shanghai, 200234, China. Electronic address: 
duanyanping@shnu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Management and Economics, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, 
China.
(5)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Bio-Energy Crops, School of Life Sciences, 
Shanghai University, Shanghai, 200444, China.
(6)Shanghai Advanced Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, 
201210, China.
(7)Xinjiang Water Conservancy Science and Technology Extension Station, Urumqi, 
830000, China.
(8)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resources Reuse, Tongji 
University, Shanghai, 200092, China.
(9)College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, 
Shanghai, 200092, China.

Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in aquatic environments are threatening 
ecosystems and human health. In this work, an effective and environmentally 
friendly catalyst based on biochar and molecular imprinting technology (MIT) was 
developed for the targeted degradation of PAHs by activating peroxymonosulfate. 
The results show that the adsorption amount of naphthalene (NAP) by molecularly 
imprinted biochar (MIP@BC) can reach 82% of the equilibrium adsorption capacity 
within 5 min, and it had well targeted adsorption for NAP in the solution 
mixture of NAP, QL and SMX. According to the comparison between the removal 
rates of NAP and QL by MIP@BC/PMS or BC/PMS system in respective pure solutions 
or mixed solutions, the MIP@BC/PMS system can better resist the interference of 
competing pollutants (i.e., QL) compared to the BC/PMS system; that is, MIP@BC 
had a good ability to selectively degrade NAP. Besides, the removal rate of NAP 
by MIP@BC/PMS gradually decreased as pH increased. The addition of Cl- greatly 
promoted the targeted removal of NAP in the MIP@BC/PMS system, while HCO3- and 
CO32- both had an inhibitory effect. Furthermore, SO4•-, O2•- and 1O2 produced 
by BC activating PMS dominated the NAP degradation, and it was inferred that the 
vacated imprinted cavities after NAP degradation can continue to selectively 
adsorb NAP and this could facilitate the reusability of the material. This study 
can promote the research on the targeted degradation of PAHs through the 
synergism of biochar/PMS advanced oxidation processes and MIT.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2023.140491
PMID: 37863207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


247. Microb Pathog. 2023 Oct 19;185:106396. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2023.106396. 
Online ahead of print.

Extracellular nanovesicles produced by Bacillus licheniformis: A potential 
anticancer agent for breast and lung cancer.

Gurunathan S(1), Ajmani A(2), Kim JH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Rathinam College of Arts and Science, 
RathinamTechzone Campus, Eachanari, Coimbatore, 641 021, Tamil Nadu, India. 
Electronic address: gsangiliyandi@yahoo.com.
(2)Institute of Advanced Virology, Thiruvananthapuram, 695014, Kerala, India.
(3)Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biotechnology, Konkuk University, 
Seoul, 05029, South Korea. Electronic address: jhkim541@konkuk.ac.kr.

Cancer is a major public burden and leading cause of death worldwide; 
furthermore, it is a significant barrier to increasing life expectancy in most 
countries of the world. Among various types of cancers, breast and lung cancers 
lead to significant mortality in both males and females annually. 
Bacteria-derived products have been explored for their use in cancer therapy. 
Although bacteria contain significant amounts of anticancer substances, 
attenuated bacteria may still pose a potential risk for infection owing to the 
variety of immunomodulatory molecules present in the parental bacteria; 
therefore, non-cellular bacterial extracellular vesicles (BEVs), which are 
naturally non-replicating, safer, and are considered to be potential anticancer 
agents, are preferred for cancer therapy. Gram-positive bacteria actively 
secrete cytoplasmic membrane vesicles that are spherical and vary between 10 and 
400 nm in size. However, no studies have considered cytoplasmic membrane 
vesicles derived from Bacillus licheniformisin cancer treatment. In this study, 
we investigated the potential use of B. licheniformis extracellular nanovesicles 
(BENVs) as therapeutic agents to treat cancer. Purified BENVs from the culture 
supernatant of B. licheniformis using ultracentrifugation and ExoQuick were 
characterized using a series of analytical techniques. Human breast cancer cells 
(MDA-MB-231) and lung cancer cells (A549) were treated with different 
concentrations of purified BENVs, which inhibited the cell viability and 
proliferation, and increased cytotoxicity in a dose-dependent manner. To 
elucidate the mechanism underlying the anticancer activity of BENVs, the 
oxidative stress markers such as reactive oxygen species (ROS) and glutathione 
(GSH) levels were measured. The ROS levels were significantly higher in 
BENV-treated cells, whereas the GSH levels were markedly reduced. Cells treated 
with BENVs, doxorubicin (DOX), or a combination of BENVs and DOX showed 
significantly increased expression of p53, p21, caspase-9/3, and Bax, and 
concomitantly decreased expression of Bcl-2. The combination of BENVs and 
doxorubicin enhanced mitochondrial dysfunction, DNA damage, and apoptosis. To 
our knowledge, this is the first study to determine the anticancer properties of 
BENVs derived from industrially significant probacteria on breast and lung 
cancer cells.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2023.106396
PMID: 37863272

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The author 
reports no conflicts of interest in this work.


248. Lancet Neurol. 2023 Nov;22(11):1026-1047. doi:
10.1016/S1474-4422(23)00287-9.

Global, regional, and national burden of spinal cord injury, 1990-2019: a 
systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD Spinal Cord Injuries Collaborators.

Collaborators: Safdarian M, Trinka E, Rahimi-Movaghar V, Thomschewski A, Aali A, 
Abady GG, Abate SM, Abd-Allah F, Abedi A, Adane DE, Afzal S, Ahinkorah BO, Ahmad 
S, Ahmed H, Amanat N, Angappan D, Arabloo J, Aryannejad A, Athari SS, Atreya A, 
Azadnajafabad S, Azzam AY, Babamohamadi H, Banik PC, Bardhan M, Bashiri A, 
Berhie AY, Bhat AN, Brown J, Champs AP, Charalampous P, Chukwu IS, Coberly K, 
Dadras O, Yada DY, Dai X, Dandona L, Dandona R, Dessalegn FN, Desta AA, Dhingra 
S, Diao N, Diaz D, Dibas M, Dongarwar D, Dsouza HL, Ekholuenetale M, El Nahas N, 
Elhadi M, Eskandarieh S, Fagbamigbe AF, Fares J, Fatehizadeh A, Fereshtehnejad 
SM, Fischer F, Franklin RC, Garg T, Getachew M, Ghaffarpasand F, 
Gholamrezanezhad A, Gholizadeh Mesgarha M, Ghozy S, Golechha M, Goleij P, Graham 
SM, Gupta VK, Haagsma JA, Hamidi S, Harlianto NI, Harorani M, Hasanian M, Hassan 
A, Hassen MB, Hoveidaei AH, Iravanpour F, Irilouzadian R, Iwu CCD, Jacob L, Jaja 
CJ, Joseph N, Joshua CE, Jozwiak JJ, Kadashetti V, Kandel A, Kantar RS, Karaye 
IM, Karkhah S, Khader YS, Khan EA, Khan MJ, Khayat Kashani HR, Khonji MS, 
Khormali M, Kim G, Krishnamoorthy V, Kumaran SD, Malekpour MR, Meretoja TJ, 
Mesregah MK, Mestrovic T, Micheletti Gomide Nogueira de Sá AC, Mirahmadi A, 
Mirghaderi SP, Mirza M, Misganaw A, Misra S, Mohammad Y, Mohammadi E, Mokdad AH, 
Möller H, Momtazmanesh S, Moni MA, Mostafavi E, Mulita F, Naghavi M, 
Nassereldine H, Natto ZS, Nejati K, Nguyen HLT, Nguyen VT, Nogueira de Sá AT, 
Olagunju AT, Olufadewa II, Omotayo AO, Owolabi MO, Patil S, Pawar S, Pedersini 
P, Petcu IR, Polinder S, Pourbagher-Shahri AM, Qureshi MF, Raghav PR, Rahman M, 
Rahnavard N, Rajabpour-Sanati A, Rashidi MM, Rawaf S, Roberts NLS, Saddik B, 
Saeed U, Samadzadeh S, Samy AM, Sarveazad A, Seylani A, Shafie M, Shahbandi A, 
Sharew MMS, Sheikhi RA, Shetty PH, Yigit A, Shobeiri P, Shool S, Shorofi SA, 
Sibhat MM, Sinaei E, Singh P, Singh S, Solomon Y, Sotoudeh H, Tadesse BA, Umair 
M, Valadan Tahbaz S, Valdez PR, Venketasubramanian N, Vu LG, Wickramasinghe ND, 
Zare I, Yazdanpanah F, Wu AM, Zhang ZJ.

Comment in
    Lancet Neurol. 2023 Nov;22(11):976-978.

BACKGROUND: Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a major cause of health loss due to 
premature mortality and long-term disability. We aimed to report on the global, 
regional, and national incidence, prevalence, and years of life lived with 
disability (YLDs) for SCI from 1990 to 2019, using data from the Global Burden 
of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2019.
METHODS: Using GBD 2019 data pooled in DisMod-MR 2.1, a Bayesian meta-regression 
tool, we systematically derived numbers and age-standardised rate changes with 
95% uncertainty intervals (95% UIs) for the incidence, prevalence, and YLDs for 
SCI from 1990 to 2019 for the whole world, 21 GBD regions, and 204 countries and 
territories. We report trends based on age, sex, year, cause of injury, and 
level of injury.
FINDINGS: Globally, 20·6 million (95% UI 18·9 to 23·6) individuals were living 
with SCI in 2019. The incidence of SCI was 0·9 million (0·7 to 1·2) cases with 
an estimated 6·2 million (4·5 to 8·2) YLDs. SCI rates increased substantially 
from 1990 to 2019 for global prevalence (81·5%, 74·2 to 87·1), incidence (52·7%, 
30·3 to 69·8), and YLDs (65·4%, 56·3 to 76·0). However, global age-standardised 
rates per 100 000 population showed small changes in prevalence (5·8%, 2·6 to 
9·5), incidence (-6·1%, -17·2 to 1·5), and YLDs (-1·5%, -5·5 to 3·2). Data for 
2019 shows that the incidence of SCI increases sharply until age 15-19 years, 
where it remains reasonably constant until 85 years of age and older. By 
contrast, prevalence and YLDs showed similar patterns to each other, with one 
peak at around age 45-54 years. The incidence, prevalence, and YLDs of SCI have 
consistently been higher in men than in women globally, with a slight and steady 
increase for both men and women from 1990 to 2019. Between 1990 and 2019, SCI at 
neck level was more common than SCI below neck level in terms of incidence (492 
thousand [354 to 675] vs 417 thousand [290 to 585]), prevalence (10·8 million 
[9·5 to 13·9] vs 9·7 million [9·2 to 10·4]), and YLDs (4·2 million [3·0 to 5·8] 
vs 1·9 million [1·3 to 2·5]). Falls (477 thousand [327 to 683] cases) and road 
injuries (230 thousand [122 to 389] cases) were the two leading causes of SCI 
globally in 2019.
INTERPRETATION: Although age-standardised rates of incidence, prevalence, and 
YLDs for SCI changed only slightly, absolute counts increased substantially from 
1990 to 2019. Geographical heterogeneity in demographic, spatial, and temporal 
patterns of SCI, at both the national and regional levels, should be considered 
by policy makers aiming to reduce the burden of SCI.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(23)00287-9
PMCID: PMC10584692
PMID: 37863591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests R C Franklin reports 
grants or contracts from Heatwaves in Queensland—Queensland Government and Arc 
Flash–Human Factors–Queensland Government; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from 
Honoraria–World Safety Conference 2022–Conference Convener; support for 
attending meetings or travel from the Australasian College of Tropical Medicine 
for the Tropical Medicine and Travel Medicine Conference 2022 and from the 
International Society of Travel Medicine for the Travel Medicine Conference, 
Basel 2023; and leadership or fiduciary roles in board, society, committee, or 
advocacy groups, paid or unpaid with Kidsafe as Director, Farmsafe as Director, 
Auschem as Director, the Public Health Association of Australia Injury 
Prevention Special Interest Group as Convenor, and the International Society for 
Agricultural Safety and Health as a member of the Governance Committee, all 
outside the submitted work. E Trinka reports grants or contracts from the 
Austrian Science Fund (FWF), Oesterreichische Nationalbank, the EU, GSK, Biogen, 
Eisai, Novartis, Red Bull, Bayer, and UCB; consulting fees from Angelini, 
Clexio, Argenx, Arvelle, Epilog, Ever Pharma, UCB, Biogen, GSK, Bial, Eisai, 
Takeda, Newbridge, GW Pharma, Sunovion, Liva Nova, Marinus, Medtronic, Novartis, 
Sandoz, and Sanofi; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers 
bureaus, manuscript writing, or educational events from UCB, Eisai, Biogen, 
Novartis, Bial, Sunovion, Ever Pharma, Liva Nova, Sanofi, Hikma, Newbridge, 
Arvelle, GW Pharma, and Sandoz; and other support from Neuroconsult as CEO, all 
outside the submitted work. All other authors declare no competing interests.


249. Clin Exp Nephrol. 2023 Oct 21. doi: 10.1007/s10157-023-02417-y. Online ahead
of  print.

Survival benefit of living donor kidney transplantation in patients on 
hemodialysis.

Goto S(1)(2), Fujii H(3), Mieno M(4), Yagisawa T(5), Abe M(6)(7), Nitta K(6)(8), 
Nishi S(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Kidney Center, Kobe University Graduate School of 
Medicine, 7-5-2 Kusunoki-Cho, Chuo-Ku, Kobe, 650-0017, Japan. 
sgoto@med.kobe-u.ac.jp.
(2)Committee of the Renal Data Registry, Japanese Society for Dialysis Therapy, 
Tokyo, Japan. sgoto@med.kobe-u.ac.jp.
(3)Division of Nephrology and Kidney Center, Kobe University Graduate School of 
Medicine, 7-5-2 Kusunoki-Cho, Chuo-Ku, Kobe, 650-0017, Japan.
(4)Center for Information, Jichi Medical University, Tochigi, Japan.
(5)Department of Renal Surgery and Transplantation, Jichi Medical University 
Hospital, Tochigi, Japan.
(6)Committee of the Renal Data Registry, Japanese Society for Dialysis Therapy, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Division of Nephrology, Hypertension, and Endocrinology, Department of 
Internal Medicine, Nihon University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(8)Department of Medicine, Kidney Center, Tokyo Women's Medical University, 
Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Donors bravely donate their kidneys because they expect that living 
donor kidney transplantation (LKT) confers benefits to recipients. However, the 
magnitude of the survival benefit of LKT is uncertain.
METHODS: This prospective cohort study used two Japanese nationwide databases 
for dialysis and kidney transplantation and included 862 LKT recipients and 
285,242 hemodialysis (HD) patients in the main model and 5299 LKT recipients and 
151,074 HD patients in the supplementary model. We employed time-dependent model 
in the main model and assessed the hazard ratio and the difference in the 
restricted mean survival time (RMST) between LKT recipients and HD patients. In 
the main analysis of the main model (LKT, N = 675; HD, N = 675), we matched LKT 
recipients with HD patients by age, sex, dialysis vintage, and cause of renal 
failure and excluded HD patients with dementia or performance status grades 2, 
3, or 4.
RESULTS: The median observational period was 8.00 (IQR 3.58-8.00) years. LKT was 
significantly associated with a lower risk of mortality (hazard ratios (95% 
confidence interval (CI)), 0.50 (0.35-0.72)) and an increase in life expectancy 
(7-year RMST differences (95% CI), 0.48 (0.35-0.60) years) compared with HD. In 
subgroup analysis, the survival benefit of LKT was greater in female patients 
than in male patients in the Cox model; whereas older patients gained longer 
life expectancy compared with younger patients.
CONCLUSIONS: LKT was associated with better survival benefits than HD, and the 
estimated increase in life expectancy was 0.48 years for 7 years.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10157-023-02417-y
PMID: 37864680


250. J Nutr Biochem. 2023 Oct 20;123:109488. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2023.109488. 
Online ahead of print.

Polyphenols as potential preventers of osteoporosis: A comprehensive review on 
antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects, molecular mechanisms, and signal 
pathways in bone metabolism.

Su Z(1), Yao B(1), Liu G(1), Fang J(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Hunan Agricultural University, Hunan 
Provincial Engineering Research Center of Applied Microbial Resources 
Development for Livestock and Poultry, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)College of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Hunan Agricultural University, Hunan 
Provincial Engineering Research Center of Applied Microbial Resources 
Development for Livestock and Poultry, Changsha, Hunan, China. Electronic 
address: fangjun1973@hunau.edu.cn.

Osteoporosis (OP) is a skeletal disorder characterized by decreased bone 
density, alterations in bone microstructure, and increased damage to the bones. 
As the population ages and life expectancy increases, OP has become a global 
epidemic, drawing attention from scientists and doctors. Because of polyphenols 
have favorable antioxidant and anti-allergy effects, which are regarded as 
potential methods to prevent angiocardipathy and OP. Polyphenols offer a 
promising approach to preventing and treating OP by affecting bone metabolism, 
reducing bone resolution, maintaining bone density, and lowering the 
differentiation level of osteoclasts (OC). There are multiple ways in which 
polyphenols affect bone metabolism. This article provides an overview of how 
polyphenols inhibit oxidative stress, exert antibacterial effects, and prevent 
the occurrence of OP. Furthermore, we will explore the regulatory mechanisms and 
signaling pathways implicated in this process.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2023.109488
PMID: 37865383

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interests The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


251. BMJ Open. 2023 Oct 21;13(10):e075437. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-075437.

Changing trends of the diseases burden attributable to high BMI in Asia from 
1990 to 2019: results from the global burden of disease study 2019.

Li X(#)(1)(2)(3), Han F(#)(3), Liu N(#)(1), Feng X(1)(2), Sun X(1)(2), Chi Y(4), 
Hou N(1), Liu Y(5)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Affiliated Hospital of Weifang 
Medical University, Weifang, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Research Center, Affiliated Hospital of Weifang 
Medical University, Weifang, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, Affiliated Hospital of Weifang Medical University, 
Weifang, China.
(4)Department of General Medicine, Affiliated Hospital of Weifang Medical 
University, Weifang, China.
(5)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Affiliated Hospital of Weifang 
Medical University, Weifang, China lypfree@hotmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: To analyse the trends of diseases burden attributed to high body mass 
index (BMI), including overweight and obesity, in Asia from 1990 to 2019.
DESIGN: Observational study.
SETTING: The data of 45 countries and regions in Asia were obtained from the 
Global Burden of Disease Study 2019 database.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Numbers, age-standardised rate (ASR) of deaths and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), and the corresponding estimated annual 
percentage changes (EAPCs), attributable to high BMI in Asia from 1990 to 2019, 
were analysed by regions, genders and age. We also analysed changes in the 
causes of deaths and DALYs that are attributable to high BMI over this period.
RESULTS: In 2019, all causes deaths attributable to high BMI in Asia were 2 329 
503, with increases by 265% compared with 1990. Over three decades, DALYs 
related to high BMI have increased by 268%. The ASRs of deaths and DALYs in Asia 
both showed continuous upward trends during this period (EAPC 1.39; 95% 
certainty interval [95% CI] 1.35 to 1.43 for deaths; EAPC 1.8; 95% CI 1.76 to 
1.84 for DALYs), while both were declined in high-income areas (EAPC -2.03 and 
-1.26). By geographical regions, disease burden in Central Asia and West Asia 
have been fluctuating at high levels, but high-income Asia Pacific showed 
decreasing trends of ASR of deaths (EAPC -2.03) and DALYs (EAPC -1.26). Over 
this period, disease burden in Asia was changing from women to men, and tends to 
ageing. In addition, diabetes were the diseases most affected by high BMI, and 
cancer burden was high in middle-aged and elderly people.
CONCLUSIONS: The disease burden attributed to high BMI in Asia has experienced 
great changes. It is necessary to promote the prevention of obesity and chronic 
diseases in a comprehensive manner, especially in low-income areas, men and 
elderly.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-075437
PMCID: PMC10603495
PMID: 37865409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


252. Sci Rep. 2023 Oct 21;13(1):18023. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-44888-9.

Combined effect of the pro-apoptotic rhTRAIL protein and HSV-1 virus in head and 
neck cancer cell lines.

Bravo Perina L(1)(2), Faria Gomes IN(1), Alcantara Pelloso AR(1)(2), Silva 
VAO(1)(3)(4), Rebolho Batista Arantes LM(1), Eliseo Melendez M(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Oncology Research Center, Barretos Cancer Hospital, Barretos, SP, 
14784-400, Brazil.
(2)Molecular Carcinogenesis Program, National Cancer Institute (INCA), Rio de 
Janeiro, RJ, 20230-240, Brazil.
(3)Department of Pathology and Legal Medicine, Medical School of the Federal 
University of Bahia, Salvador, BA, 40026-010, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Pathology and Molecular Biology, Gonçalo Moniz Institute, 
Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, Salvador, BA, 40296-710, Brazil.
(5)Molecular Oncology Research Center, Barretos Cancer Hospital, Barretos, SP, 
14784-400, Brazil. matias.melendez@inca.gov.br.
(6)Molecular Carcinogenesis Program, National Cancer Institute (INCA), Rio de 
Janeiro, RJ, 20230-240, Brazil. matias.melendez@inca.gov.br.

Knowledge on the molecular and clinical characteristics of head and neck 
squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is vast. However, an effective therapy that 
increases the life expectancy of these patients, with a 5-year overall survival 
of 50%, is still unknown. Here we evaluated the combined effect of the 
pro-apoptotic protein rhTRAIL with the replication-competent wild-type HSV-1 
virus in head and neck cancer cell lines. We observed a difference in the 
modulation profile of proteins related to apoptotic pathways in the studied cell 
lines. The HCB289 exhibited caspase-9 activation in the presence of the HSV-1 
virus, while the UD-SCC-2 exhibited caspase-8 activation in the presence of 
rhTRAIL. Both cell lines exhibited PARP activation by combining rhTRAIL and 
HSV-1 virus treatment. Flow cytometry analysis exhibited greater induction of 
late apoptosis for the HCB289 and UD-SCC-2 after the combination treatment of 
the HSV-1 and rhTRAIL. However, the UD-SCC-2 also presented induction of late 
apoptosis by the presence of rhTRAIL in monotherapy. These data suggest an 
enhancement of the effect of the combination treatment of the rhTRAIL and the 
HSV-1 on reducing viability and induction of cell death.

© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-44888-9
PMCID: PMC10590400
PMID: 37865660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


253. BMC Public Health. 2023 Oct 21;23(1):2064. doi: 10.1186/s12889-023-16894-z.

Analysis of the burden and trends of communicable diseases in Pacific Island 
countries from 1990 to 2019.

Li Y(1), Li H(1), Jiang Y(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(2)School of Public Health, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China. 
jiangyilaoshi@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Communicable diseases contribute substantially to morbidity and 
death rates worldwide, particularly in low-and middle-income countries. Pacific 
Island countries face unique challenges in addressing these diseases due to 
their remote locations and limited resources. Understanding the burden and 
trends of these diseases in this region is crucial for developing effective 
public health interventions.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to analyze the burden and trends of communicable 
diseases in Pacific Island countries from 1990 to 2019.
METHODS: We utilized data from the 2019 Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study to 
analyze indicators including incidence, death, and disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs). Excel 2016, R 4.2.1, and GraphPad Prism 9 were used to analyze 
and visualize the data. Joinpoint regression models were used for trend 
analysis, and the average annual percent change (AAPC) was calculated.
RESULTS: From 1990 to 2019, the standardized incidence rate of communicable 
diseases in Pacific Island countries showed an upward trend (AAPC = 0.198%, 95% 
CI = 0.0174 ~ 0.221), while the standardized death rate (AAPC = -1.098%, 95% 
CI = -1.34 ~ 0.86) and standardized DALY rate (AAPC = -1.008%, 95% 
CI = -1.187 ~ -0.828) showed downward trends. In 2019, the standardized 
incidence, death, and DALY rates of communicable diseases were higher among 
males than among females, but the standardized death and DALY rates among males 
decreased faster than those among females from 1990 to 2019. There were 
significant differences in the disease burden among different Pacific Island 
countries. The Solomon Islands had the highest standardized death rate 
(363.73/100,000), and Guam had the lowest (50.42/100,000). Papua New Guinea had 
the highest standardized DALY rate (16,041.14/100,000), and the Cook Islands had 
the lowest (2,740.13/100,000). In 2019, the main attributable risk factors for 
communicable disease deaths in Pacific Island countries were child and maternal 
malnutrition (28.32%), followed by unsafe water, sanitation, and handwashing 
(27.14%), air pollution (16.11%), and unsafe sex (14.96%). There were 
considerable geographical variations in risk factors.
CONCLUSION: The burden of communicable diseases in Pacific Island countries 
remains high, despite improvements in mortality and disability-adjusted 
life-year rates over the past few decades. This study provides valuable insights 
into the burden and trends of communicable diseases in Pacific Island countries 
from 1990 to 2019. The findings reveal several important insights and highlight 
the need for targeted public health interventions in the region.

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-023-16894-z
PMCID: PMC10590040
PMID: 37865756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


254. J Hand Ther. 2023 Oct 20:S0894-1130(23)00135-7. doi:
10.1016/j.jht.2023.09.009.  Online ahead of print.

Comparison of the physiotherapy with and without focus on the scapulothoracic 
joint on pain, range of motion, functional disability, quality of life, and 
treatment effectiveness of patients after arthroscopic shoulder rotator cuff 
tendon repair: A randomized controlled trial with short-term follow-up.

Rezaie M(1), Negahban H(2), Mostafaee N(1), Ebrahimzadeh MH(3), Eshraghi R(4), 
Raeesi J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, School of Paramedical and Rehabilitation 
Sciences, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Department of Physical Therapy, School of Paramedical and Rehabilitation 
Sciences, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Orthopedic 
Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. 
Electronic address: honegahban@yahoo.com.
(3)Orthopedic and Trauma Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical 
Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Sina Hospital, Mashhad, Iran.
(5)School of Physical Therapy, Department of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences, 
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Rotator cuff tears are prevalent shoulder injuries, significantly 
affecting shoulder stabilization and patient quality of life. Despite 
rehabilitation efforts post-arthroscopic surgery, the efficacy of 
scapular-focused exercises remains uncertain with limited supportive evidence.
PURPOSE: This study aimed to compare the immediate and short-term effects of 
emphasizing scapulothoracic joint rehabilitation in addition to conventional 
physiotherapy on pain, range of motion (ROM), function, quality of life, and 
treatment effectiveness in patients after shoulder arthroscopic rotator cuff 
tendon repair (ARCR).
STUDY DESIGN: Two arms, parallel-group, randomized controlled trial, with 
concealed allocation METHODS: This parallel-group randomized controlled trial, 
with concealed allocation, was conducted in a clinic setting on 28 participants 
aged 30-75 years, exhibiting progressive degenerative full-thickness tears of 
rotator cuff muscles and undergoing ARCR, provided the tear size was small or 
medium. Participants were randomly allocated to receive 21 sessions of 
conventional rehabilitation (n = 14) or comprehensive rehabilitation (with a 
focus on scapula training; n = 14) in 12 weeks (reporting of intervention 
complied with Consensus on Exercise Reporting Template (CERT) and Template for 
Intervention Description and Replication (TIDieR) Guideline). Pain (as primary 
outcome), ROM, functional disability, quality of life, and treatment 
effectiveness were assessed both pre- and post-intervention, along with a 
3-month follow-up. Participants, assessors, and statistician were blinded to 
group assignment. For the reporting of the RCT, the Consolidated Standards of 
Reporting Trials (CONSORT) has been used.
RESULTS: Trial was completed with 28 participants and no dropouts. The analysis 
of variance revealed statistically significant group-by-time interaction 
(p < 0.05) for all outcome measures except for active ROMs (p > 0.05). Multiple 
comparison analysis showed statistically significant between-group differences 
(p < 0.05) at 3-month follow-up with large effect size (>0.8 Hedges' g) for all 
outcomes (mean differences: visual analog scale: 1.3, American Shoulder and 
Elbow Surgeons: -17.3, Shoulder Pain and Disability Index: 17.6, Western Ontario 
Rotator Cuff: -19.5, QuickDASH: 17.8), except for extension ROM (passive ROM: 
confidence interval = -25.4 to 0.56; active ROM: confidence interval = -20.0 to 
6.0). The differences in American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons and Western 
Ontario Rotator Cuff were also clinically significant based on their minimally 
clinical important difference cutoff points. For the Global Rating of Change 
scale, more participants stated "much improved" in the comprehensive group than 
in the conventional. No adverse effects were reported.
CONCLUSIONS: Comprehensive rehabilitation, compared to conventional 
physiotherapy, has shown a statistically and clinically significant difference 
in improving pain, ROM, functional disability, quality of life, and treatment 
effectiveness in patients after ARCR.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jht.2023.09.009
PMID: 37866984

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None of the 
authors have any financial or other interests relating to the manuscript to be 
submitted for publication in the Journal of Hand Therapy.


255. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2023 Oct 23:djad175. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djad175. Online
ahead  of print.

Mental health outcomes in a population-based cohort of patients with prostate 
