(6)Herzog Architektur, Frühlingstrasse 69, 85354 Freising, Germany.
(7)Kämpfen Zinke + Partner AG, Gutstrasse 73, 8055 Zürich, Switzerland.
(8)Fraunhofer-Institut für Bauphysik IBP, Fraunhoferstr. 10, 83626 Valley, 
Germany.
(9)Institute for History of Art, Building Archaeology and Restoration, Faculty 
of Architecture and Planning, Vienna University of Technology, Karlsplatz 13, 
1040 Vienna, Austria.

Silica aerogels are high-performance thermal insulation materials that can be 
used to provide unique solutions in the envelopes of buildings when space is 
limited. They are most often applied in historic buildings due to thin 
insulation thicknesses and since they are compatible with historic structures. 
In 2021, the first Aerogel Architecture Award was held at Empa in Switzerland in 
order to collect, evaluate and award outstanding uses of this relatively new 
building material. From the submitted projects, three were selected for an award 
by an expert jury. They showcased applications in which heritage protection and 
the conservation of a building's character and expression were reconciled with 
significant improvements in the energy efficiency of the building. The 
submissions also showed that a broader communication of these types of solutions 
is important in order to provide more information and security to planners and 
heritage offices and to facilitate the application of these materials in the 
future so that they can contribute to the protection of cultural heritage and 
reductions in the operational and embodied emissions of our building stock by 
extending the life expectancy and energy efficiency of existing buildings.

DOI: 10.3390/gels9100814
PMCID: PMC10606714
PMID: 37888387

Conflict of interest statement: Samuel Brunner is one of the four inventors of 
the aerogel render that is marketed under the brand names Fixit 222 and HASIT 
Fixit 222 by the companies Fixit, Hasit and Röfix.


309. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2023 Oct 27:ezad360. doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezad360.
Online  ahead of print.

Long-term surgical outcomes of congenital supravalvular aortic stenosis: a 
systematic review, meta-analysis and microsimulation study.

Meccanici F(1), Notenboom ML(2), Meijssen J(1), Smit V(1), van de Woestijne 
PC(2), van den Bosch AE(1), Helbing WA(3), Bogers AJJC(2), Takkenberg JJM(2), 
Roos-Hesselink JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Erasmus University Medical Centre, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Erasmus University Medical Centre, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Paediatrics, Division of Paediatric Cardiology, Erasmus 
University Medical Centre, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Congenital supravalvular aortic stenosis is a rare form of 
congenital outflow tract obstruction and long-term outcomes are scarcely 
reported. This study aims to provide an overview of outcomes after surgical 
repair for congenital supravalvular aortic stenosis.
METHODS: A systematic review of published literature was conducted, including 
observational studies reporting long-term clinical outcome (>2 years) after 
supravalvular aortic stenosis repair in children or adults considering >20 
patients. Early risks, late event rates and time-to-event data were pooled and 
entered into a microsimulation model to estimate 30-year outcomes. 
Life-expectancy was compared to the age-, sex- and origin-matched general 
population.
RESULTS: Twenty-three publications were included, encompassing a total of 1,472 
patients (13,125 patient-years; pooled mean follow-up: 9.0 (6.2) years; median 
follow-up: 6.3 years). Pooled mean age at surgical repair was 4.7 (5.8) years 
and the most commonly used surgical technique was the single patch repair 
(43.6%). Pooled early mortality was 4.2% (95% CI:3.2-5.5%) and late mortality 
was 0.61% (95% CI:0.45-0.83) per patient-year. Based on microsimulation, over a 
30 year time horizon, it was estimated that an average patient with 
supravalvular aortic stenosis repair (mean age: 4.7y) had an observed 
life-expectancy that was 90.7% (95% Credible Interval:90.0-91.6%) of expected 
life-expectancy in the matched-general-population. The microsimulation-based 
30-year risk of myocardial infarction was 6.0% (95% CrI:5.1-6.5) and 
reintervention 31.3% (95% CrI:29.6-33.4%), of which 27.2% (95% CrI:25.8-29.1) 
due to repair dysfunction.
CONCLUSIONS: After surgical repair for supravalvular aortic stenosis, 30-year 
survival is lower than the matched-general-population survival and the lifetime 
risk of reintervention is considerable. Therefore, lifelong monitoring of the 
cardiovascular system and in particular residual stenosis and coronary 
obstruction is recommended.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery.

DOI: 10.1093/ejcts/ezad360
PMID: 37889257


310. Qual Life Res. 2023 Oct 27. doi: 10.1007/s11136-023-03538-3. Online ahead of
 print.

Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) after different axillary treatments in 
women with breast cancer: a 1-year longitudinal cohort study.

Vrancken Peeters NJMC(1), Kaplan ZLR(2), Clarijs ME(1), Mureau MAM(3), Verhoef 
C(1), van Dalen T(1), Husson O(1)(4), Koppert LB(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, University 
Medical Center Rotterdam, 3015 GD, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, 
University Medical Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute-Antoni Van 
Leeuwenhoek, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Surgical Oncology, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, University 
Medical Center Rotterdam, 3015 GD, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
l.koppert@erasmusmc.nl.

PURPOSE: As life expectancy continues to rise, post-treatment health-related 
quality of life (HRQoL) of breast cancer patients becomes increasingly 
important. This study examined the one-year longitudinal relation between 
axillary treatments and physical, psychosocial, and sexual wellbeing and arm 
symptoms.
METHODS: Women diagnosed with breast cancer who received different axillary 
treatments being axilla preserving surgery (APS) with or without axillary 
radiotherapy or full axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) with or without 
axillary radiotherapy were included. HRQoL was assessed at baseline, 6- and 
12-months postoperatively using the BREAST-Q and the European Organization for 
Research and Treatment of Cancer QoL Questionnaire Breast Cancer Module (EORTC 
QLQ-BR23). Mixed regression models were constructed to assess the impact of 
axillary treatment on HRQoL. HRQoL at baseline was compared to HRQoL at 6- and 
at 12-months postoperatively.
RESULTS: In total, 552 patients were included in the mixed regressions models. 
Except for ALND with axillary radiotherapy, no significant differences in 
physical and psychosocial wellbeing were found. Physical wellbeing decreased 
significantly between baseline and 6- and 12-months postoperatively (p < 0.001, 
p = 0.035) and psychosocial wellbeing decreased significantly between baseline 
and 12 months postoperatively (p = 0.028) for ALND with axillary radiotherapy 
compared to APS alone. Arm symptoms increased significantly between baseline and 
6 months and between baseline and 12 months postoperatively for APS with 
radiotherapy (12.71, 13.73) and for ALND with radiotherapy (13.93, 16.14), with 
the lowest increase in arm symptoms for ALND without radiotherapy (6.85, 7.66), 
compared to APS alone (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Physical and psychosocial wellbeing decreased significantly for ALND 
with radiotherapy compared to APS alone. Shared decision making and expectation 
management pre-treatment could be strengthened by discussing arm symptoms per 
axillary treatment with the patient.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-023-03538-3
PMID: 37889384


311. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep. 2023 Oct 27. doi: 10.1007/s11910-023-01314-x.
Online  ahead of print.

Disparities in Neuro-Oncology.

Michaelson NM(1), Watsula A(2), Bakare-Okpala A(3), Mohamadpour M(4), Chukwueke 
UN(5), Budhu JA(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York 
Avenue, New York, NY 10065, C719, USA.
(5)Center for Neuro-Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA. 
budhuj@mskcc.org.
(7)Department of Neurology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York 
Avenue, New York, NY 10065, C719, USA. budhuj@mskcc.org.

PURPOSEOF REVIEW: Health disparities are preventable differences in the 
diagnosis, treatment, and outcomes of many diseases, including central nervous 
system (CNS) tumors. This review will summarize and compile the existing 
literature on health disparities in neuro-oncology and provide directions for 
future research and interventions.
RECENT FINDINGS: Patients from historically marginalized groups are more likely 
to receive inadequate treatment, develop complications, and experience a shorter 
life expectancy. Financial toxicity can be particularly severe for patients with 
CNS tumors due to the high costs of treatment. Additionally, CNS clinical trials 
and research lack diverse representation.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11910-023-01314-x
PMID: 37889427


312. JAMA Netw Open. 2023 Oct 2;6(10):e2337001. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2023.37001.

Management of de Quervain Tenosynovitis: A Systematic Review and Network 
Meta-Analysis.

Challoumas D(1), Ramasubbu R(1), Rooney E(1), Seymour-Jackson E(1), Putti A(2), 
Millar NL(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Infection and Immunity, College of Medicine, Veterinary and Life 
Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, Scotland.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Forth Valley Royal Hospital, Larbert, 
Scotland.

IMPORTANCE: There is a plethora of treatment options for patients with de 
Quervain tenosynovitis (DQT), but there are limited data on their effectiveness 
and no definitive management guidelines.
OBJECTIVE: To assess and compare the effectiveness associated with available 
treatment options for DQT to guide musculoskeletal practitioners and inform 
guidelines.
DATA SOURCES: Medline, Embase, PubMed, Cochrane Central, Scopus, OpenGrey.eu, 
and WorldCat.org were searched for published studies, and the World Health 
Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, 
ClinicalTrials.gov, The European Union Clinical Trials Register, and the ISRCTN 
registry were searched for unpublished and ongoing studies from inception to 
August 2022.
STUDY SELECTION: All randomized clinical trials assessing the effectiveness of 
any intervention for the management of DQT.
DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: This study was prospectively registered on 
PROSPERO and conducted and reported per Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic 
Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension Statement for Reporting of Systematic 
Reviews Incorporating Network Meta-analyses of Health Care Interventions 
(PRISMA-NMA) and PRISMA in Exercise, Rehabilitation, Sport Medicine and Sports 
Science (PERSIST) guidance. The Cochrane Risk of Bias tool and the Grading of 
Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluations tool were used for 
risk of bias and certainty of evidence assessment for each outcome.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Pairwise and network meta-analyses were performed 
for patient-reported pain using a visual analogue scale (VAS) and for function 
using the quick disabilities of the arm, shoulder, and hand (Q-DASH) scale. Mean 
differences (MD) with their 95% CIs were calculated for the pairwise 
meta-analyses.
RESULTS: A total of 30 studies with 1663 patients (mean [SD] age, 46 [7] years; 
80% female) were included, of which 19 studies were included in quantitative 
analyses. From the pairwise meta-analyses, based on evidence of moderate 
certainty, adding thumb spica immobilization for 3 to 4 weeks to a 
corticosteroid injection (CSI) was associated with statistically but not 
clinically significant functional benefits in the short-term (MD, 10.5 [95% CI, 
6.8-14.1] points) and mid-term (MD, 9.4 [95% CI, 7.0-11.9] points). In the 
network meta-analysis, interventions that included ultrasonography-guided CSI 
ranked at the top for pain. CSI with thumb spica immobilization had the highest 
probability of being the most effective intervention for short- and mid-term 
function.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This network meta-analysis found that adding a short 
period of thumb spica immobilization to CSI was associated with statistically 
but not clinically significant short- and mid-term benefits. These findings 
suggest that administration of CSI followed by 3 to 4 weeks immobilization 
should be considered as a first-line treatment for patients with DQT.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2023.37001
PMCID: PMC10611995
PMID: 37889490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None reported.


313. Health Secur. 2023 Oct 27. doi: 10.1089/hs.2021.0219. Online ahead of print.

Simultaneous COVID-19 Pandemic and Dengue Epidemic: A Double Challenge to 
Geriatric Health Security in Bangladesh.

Alam MS(1), Sultana R(2).

Author information:
(1)Md. Shafiul Alam, PhD, is a Professor, Department of Geography and 
Environmental Studies, University of Rajshahi, Rajshahi, Bangladesh.
(2)Rumana Sultana, PhD, is an Assistant Professor, Department of Environmental 
Science and Management, Independent University Bangladesh, Dhaka, Bangladesh.

Bangladesh faces distinct challenges as a resource-poor country due to the 
combined effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and simultaneous dengue outbreaks. 
Older adults are particularly vulnerable to infection and death from COVID-19. 
While overall health and life expectancy in the general population have improved 
substantially in Bangladesh, health services for older adults are still lacking. 
No specialized geriatric units have been established in hospitals, and no home 
care programs have been established for older adults. COVID-19 mortality rates 
were highest among older adults ages 61 to 70 years (35%), and 71 to 80 years 
(20%) in 2022. Although the country's average COVID-19 mortality rate was low at 
1.76%, in older adults, it was much higher (55%), accounting for 14,797 deaths, 
despite that most cases (55%) were recorded in young adults. During the COVID-19 
pandemic, Bangladesh also experienced a dengue epidemic. Around 21,193 dengue 
patients were admitted to hospitals between January 1 and October 8, 2022. 
Without a well-established and all-encompassing social care program, the 
indirect socioeconomic burden of COVID-19 continues to fall on older adults. 
There is an immediate need for robust healthcare and support services, 
especially for older adults in Bangladesh, which are particularly susceptible to 
the dual threats posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and the dengue epidemic. 
Recommendations are made to protect older adults from the devastating effects of 
the 2 simultaneous epidemics.

DOI: 10.1089/hs.2021.0219
PMID: 37890122


314. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2023 Nov 15;267:115632. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2023.115632. Epub 2023 Oct 25.

Toxicity risk assessment of flupyradifurone for the predatory pirate bug, Orius 
strigicollis (Poppius) (Heteroptera: Anthocoridae), a biological control agent 
of Diaphorina citri Kuwayama (Hemiptera: Liviidae).

Lin T(1), Guo Y(2), Hu J(2), Rao W(2), Wei H(2), Chen X(3), Yang G(3), Fan G(4).

Author information:
(1)Fujian Engineering Research Center for Green Pest Management, Fujian Key 
Laboratory for Monitoring and Integrated Management of Crop Pests, Institute of 
Plant Protection, Fujian Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Fuzhou 350013, China; 
Fuzhou Scientific Observing and Experimental Station of Crop Pests of Ministry 
of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Fujian 350013, China; State Key Laboratory of 
Ecological Pest Control for Fujian and Taiwan Crops, Institute of Applied 
Ecology, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou 350002, China.
(2)Fujian Engineering Research Center for Green Pest Management, Fujian Key 
Laboratory for Monitoring and Integrated Management of Crop Pests, Institute of 
Plant Protection, Fujian Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Fuzhou 350013, China; 
Fuzhou Scientific Observing and Experimental Station of Crop Pests of Ministry 
of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Fujian 350013, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Ecological Pest Control for Fujian and Taiwan Crops, 
Institute of Applied Ecology, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou 
350002, China.
(4)Fujian Engineering Research Center for Green Pest Management, Fujian Key 
Laboratory for Monitoring and Integrated Management of Crop Pests, Institute of 
Plant Protection, Fujian Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Fuzhou 350013, China; 
Fuzhou Scientific Observing and Experimental Station of Crop Pests of Ministry 
of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Fujian 350013, China. Electronic address: 
guochengfan@126.com.

Diaphorina citri Kuwayama (Hemiptera: Liviidae), commonly known as the Asian 
citrus psyllid, is a prominent citrus tree pest that serves as a vector for 
Asian huanglongbing (HLB). The substantial costs incurred by the citrus industry 
as a consequence of this disease have spurred considerable interest in the 
combined control of D. citri using insecticides and natural enemies. However, 
the successful implementation of such integrated pest management strategies is 
dependent on ensuring the compatibility of using natural enemies in the presence 
of insecticides. In this regard, we evaluated the lethal and sublethal effects 
of flupyradifurone on Orius strigicollis (Poppius) (Heteroptera: Anthocoridae), 
an important predatory biological control agent, in which we assessed the risk 
of exposure to flupyradifurone under both in- and off-field scenario. The median 
lethal rate (LR50) value of flupyradifurone against O. strigicollis (9.089 g 
a.i. ha-1), was found to be significantly lower than the maximum field 
recommended rate (MFRR, 170 g a.i. ha-1). Additionally, at 0.254 g a.i. ha-1, 
flupyradifurone was established to significantly prolong the developmental 
duration of O. strigicollis from the first to third instar nymphs. Although we 
detected no significant difference in the survival of immature O. strigicollis 
subjected to 0.064 g a.i. ha-1 and control treatments, survival was 
significantly lower in 0.127 and 0.254 g a.i. ha-1 treatments. Moreover, whereas 
there were no significant differences in adult longevity between the 0.127 g 
a.i. ha-1 and control treatments, we recorded a significant reduction in 
fecundity. Furthermore, there were reductions in peak life expectancy, 
reproductive value, finite rate of increase, intrinsic rate of increase, and net 
reproduction rate in response to exposure to increasing flupyradifurone rate. 
Additionally, at 0.127 g a.i. ha-1, the mean generation time was significantly 
longer than that under control conditions. Following simulated exposure to 
flupyradifurone for 100 days, population of O. strigicollis in the 0.064 g a.i. 
ha-1 and control treatments were found to be significantly larger than those 
exposed to 0.127 g a.i. ha-1. On the basis on LR50 evaluations, whereas the risk 
of exposure risk was unacceptable for O. strigicollis under in-field scenario, 
it remained acceptable off-field. Nonetheless, the sublethal effect of prolonged 
exposure to residual flupyradifurone could pose an unacceptable off-field risk 
to O. strigicollis (e.g., in adjacent habitats). Consequently, the effects of 
different flupyradifurone exposure scenarios on O. strigicollis should be 
thoroughly assessed, and reducing the dosage of flupyradifurone could be 
advantageous for the control of D. citri when combine with augmentative release 
of O. strigicollis.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2023.115632
PMID: 37890245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


315. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2023 Nov 15;267:115629. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2023.115629. Epub 2023 Oct 25.

Mitigating the impact of bisphenol A exposure on mortality: Is diet the key? A 
cohort study based on NHANES.

Chen YM(1), Liu ZY(2), Chen S(2), Lu XT(2), Huang ZH(3), Wusiman M(3), Huang 
BX(2), Lan QY(2), Wu T(3), Huang RZ(3), Huang SY(3), Lv LL(4), Jian YY(4), Zhu 
HL(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, School of Public Health, Sun Yat-Sen University, 74 
Zhong Shan Road 2, Guangzhou 510080, Guangdong, China; Department of Clinical 
Nutrition, The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Nutrition, School of Public Health, Sun Yat-Sen University, 74 
Zhong Shan Road 2, Guangzhou 510080, Guangdong, China; Guangdong Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Food, Nutrition and Health, School of Public Health, Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(3)Department of Nutrition, School of Public Health, Sun Yat-Sen University, 74 
Zhong Shan Road 2, Guangzhou 510080, Guangdong, China.
(4)Yibicom Health Management Center, CVTE, Guangzhou, China.
(5)Department of Nutrition, School of Public Health, Sun Yat-Sen University, 74 
Zhong Shan Road 2, Guangzhou 510080, Guangdong, China; Guangdong Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Food, Nutrition and Health, School of Public Health, Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China. Electronic address: 
zhuhl@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

Bisphenol A (BPA) is a widespread environmental pollutant linked to detrimental 
effects on human health and reduced life expectancy following chronic exposure. 
This prospective cohort study aimed to examine the association between BPA 
exposure and mortality in American adults and to explore the potential 
mitigating effects of dietary quality on BPA-related mortality. This study 
utilized data from 8761 American adults in the 2003-2016 National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). Urinary BPA levels were employed to 
assess BPA exposure, and dietary quality was evaluated using the Healthy Eating 
Index-2015 (HEI-2015). All-cause, cardiovascular disease (CVD), and cancer 
mortality statuses were determined until December 31, 2019, resulting in a 
cumulative follow-up of 80,564 person-years. The results showed that the highest 
tertile of urinary BPA levels corresponded to a 36% increase in all-cause 
mortality and a 62% increase in CVD mortality compared to the lowest tertile. In 
contrast, the highest tertile of HEI-2015 scores was associated with a 29% 
reduction in all-cause mortality relative to the lowest tertile. Although no 
significant interaction was found between HEI-2015 scores and urinary BPA levels 
concerning mortality, the association between HEI-2015 scores and both all-cause 
and CVD mortality was statistically significant at low urinary BPA levels. 
Continuous monitoring of BPA exposure is crucial for evaluating its long-term 
adverse health effects. Improving dietary quality can lower all-cause mortality 
and decrease the risk of all-cause and CVD mortality at low BPA exposure levels. 
However, due to the limited protective effect of dietary quality against BPA 
exposure, minimizing BPA exposure remains a vital goal.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2023.115629
PMID: 37890258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


316. Eur J Cancer. 2023 Dec;195:113343. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2023.113343. Epub
2023  Sep 18.

EORTC consensus recommendations for the treatment of mycosis fungoides/Sézary 
syndrome - Update 2023.

Latzka J(1), Assaf C(2), Bagot M(3), Cozzio A(4), Dummer R(5), Guenova E(6), 
Gniadecki R(7), Hodak E(8), Jonak C(9), Klemke CD(10), Knobler R(9), Morrris 
S(11), Nicolay JP(12), Ortiz-Romero PL(13), Papadavid E(14), Pimpinelli N(15), 
Quaglino P(16), Ranki A(17), Scarisbrick J(18), Stadler R(19), Väkevä L(17), 
Vermeer MH(20), Wehkamp U(21), Whittaker S(22), Willemze R(20), Trautinger 
F(23).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Venereology, University Hospital of St. Pölten, 
Karl Landsteiner University of Health Sciences, St. Pölten, Austria; Karl 
Landsteiner Institute of Dermatological Research, Department of Dermatology and 
Venereology, University Hospital of St. Pölten, St. Pölten, Austria. Electronic 
address: johanna.latzka@stpoelten.lknoe.at.
(2)Department of Dermatology, HELIOS Klinikum Krefeld, Krefeld, Germany; 
Institute for Molecular Medicine, Medical School Hamburg, University of Applied 
Sciences and Medical University, Hamburg, Germany; Department of Dermatology, 
HELIOS Klinikum Schwerin, University Campus of The Medical School Hamburg, 
Schwerin, Germany.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Hopital Saint Louis, Université Paris Cité, INSERM 
U976, Paris, France.
(4)Department of Dermatology and Allergology, Kantonspital St. Gallen, St. 
Gallen, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Dermatology, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital of Lausanne and Faculty of 
Biology and Medicine, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(7)Department of Dermatology, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark; 
Division of Dermatology, Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, 
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
(8)Cutaneous Lymphoma Unit, Davidoff Cancer Center, Rabin Medical Center, 
Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(9)Department of Dermatology, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(10)Hautklinik, Städtisches Klinikum Karlsruhe, Karlsruhe, Germany.
(11)Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, Guy's Hospital, London, UK.
(12)Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Allergology, University Medical 
Center Mannheim, Mannheim, Germany.
(13)Department of Dermatology, Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre, Institute 
i+12, CIBERONC, Medical School, University Complutense, Madrid, Spain.
(14)National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, 2nd Department of 
Dermatology and Venereology, Attikon General Hospital, University of Athens, 
Chaidari, Greece.
(15)Department of Health Sciences, Division of Dermatology, University of 
Florence, Florence, Italy.
(16)Department of Medical Sciences, Section of Dermatology, University of Turin, 
Turin, Italy.
(17)Department of Dermatology and Allergology, Inflammation Center, Helsinki 
University Central Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
(18)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(19)University Department of Dermatology, Venereology, Allergology and 
Phlebology, Skin Cancer Center, Johannes Wesling Medical Centre Minden, Ruhr 
University Bochum, Bochum, Germany.
(20)Department of Dermatology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the 
Netherlands.
(21)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Campus 
Kiel, Kiel, Germany; Medical Department, Medical School of Hamburg, Hamburg, 
Germany.
(22)St. John's Institute of Dermatology, School of Basic and Medical 
Biosciences, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College London, 
London, UK.
(23)Department of Dermatology and Venereology, University Hospital of St. 
Pölten, Karl Landsteiner University of Health Sciences, St. Pölten, Austria; 
Karl Landsteiner Institute of Dermatological Research, Department of Dermatology 
and Venereology, University Hospital of St. Pölten, St. Pölten, Austria.

On behalf of the EORTC Cutaneous Lymphoma Tumours Group (EORTC-CLTG) and 
following up on earlier versions published in 2006 and 2017 this document 
provides an updated standard for the treatment of mycosis fungoides and Sézary 
syndrome (MF/SS). It considers recent relevant publications and treatment 
options introduced into clinical practice after 2017. Consensus was established 
among the authors through a series of consecutive consultations in writing and a 
round of discussion. Treatment options are assigned to each disease stage and, 
whenever possible and clinically useful, separated into first- and second line 
options annotated with levels of evidence. Major changes to the previous version 
include the incorporation of chlormethine, brentuximab vedotin, and 
mogamulizumab, recommendations on the use of pegylated interferon α (after 
withdrawal of recombinant unpegylated interferons), and the addition of 
paragraphs on supportive therapy and on the care of older patients. Still, 
skin-directed therapies are the most appropriate option for early-stage MF and 
most patients have a normal life expectancy but may suffer morbidity and 
impaired quality of life. In advanced disease treatment options have expanded 
recently. Most patients receive multiple consecutive therapies with treatments 
often having a relatively short duration of response. For those patients 
prognosis is still poor and only for a highly selected subset long term 
remission can be achieved with allogeneic stem cell transplantation. 
Understanding of the disease, its epidemiology and clinical course, and its most 
appropriate management are gradually advancing, and there is well-founded hope 
that this will lead to further improvements in the care of patients with MF/SS.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2023.113343
PMID: 37890355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Johanna Latzka: speakers fees and 
travel support from Kyowa Kirin. Chalid Assaf: Advisory board: 4SC, Takeda, 
Helsinn, Innate Pharma, Recordati Rare Diseases, Kyowa Kirin. Martine Bagot: 
Advisory boards: Helsinn, Recordati, Innate Pharma, Kyowa Kirin, Takeda. Antonio 
Cozzio: Advisory activity for Kyowa Kirin, Takeda. Reinhard Dummer: has 
intermittent, project focused consulting and/or advisory relationships with 
Novartis, Merck Sharp & Dhome (MSD), Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS), Roche, Amgen, 
Takeda, Pierre Fabre, Sun Pharma, Sanofi, Catalym, Second Genome, Regeneron, 
Alligator, T3 Pharma, MaxiVAX SA, Pfizer, Simcere and touchIME outside the 
submitted work. Emmanuella Guenova: member of the scientific advisory board 
of Scailyte AG; received grants and personal fees from Helsinn Healthcare SA and 
Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, personal fees from Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals, 
Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Novartis, and Sanofi. Robert Gniadecki: reports 
carrying out clinical trials for Bausch Health, AbbVie and Janssen and has 
received honoraria as consultant and/or speaker from AbbVie, Bausch Health, Eli 
Lilly, Janssen, Mallincrodt, Novartis, Kyowa Kirin, Sun Pharma and 
Sanofi. Emmilia Hodak: received consulting and lecture fees from Takeda, 
consulting and lecture fees and travel support from Helsinn, lecture fees and 
travel support from Rafa. Constanze Jonak: received personal fees from Kyowa 
Kirin, Recordati Rare Diseases, and Takeda; Investigator for Innate Pharma and 
4SC (grant paid to institution). Claus-Detlev Klemke: received travel support, 
lecture and consultancy fees from Actelion, Innate Pharma, Kyowa Kirin, 
Recordati Rare Diseases, Stemline and Takeda. Robert Knobler: Speaker for 
Mallinckrodt. Stephen Morris: none. Jan Peter Nicolay: received consulting and 
lecture fees from Actelion, Innate Pharma, Kyowa Kirin, Recordati, Takeda, TEVA; 
received a research grant from Kyowa Kirin paid to institution. Pablo Luis Ortiz 
Romero: received fees for Advisory committees from 4SC, Takeda, Kyowa Kirin, 
Actelion, Recordati rare diseases, Miragen, Bioprofarma, 
Mallinckrodt. Innate Pharma. Evangelia Papadavid: Advisory, speaker and grants: 
Recordati, Mallinckrodt, Takeda, UCB. Nicola Pimpinelli: received consulting fee 
from Actelion, lecture and advisory board fees from Kyowa Kirin, Recordati Rare 
Diseases, Takeda. Pietro Quaglino: participation to advisory board; received 
speaker fees from Therakos, Kyowa Kirin, Takeda, Cellgene, Helsinn-Recordati, 
4SC. Annamari Ranki: none. Julia Scariscbrick: Takeda, Mallinckrodt, Kyowa 
Kirin, Recordati, Helsinn. Rudolf Stadler: received consult fees from Kyowa 
Kirin, Therakos, 4SC, Actelion. Liisa Väkevä: none. Marten Vermeer: unrestricted 
grants from: Kyowa, Takeda, Recordati, safety board: Innate; advisory board: 
Kyowa Kirin, Galderma, Speakers fee: Takeda, Kyowa. Ulrike Wehkamp: 
Consultancies for Takeda, Kyowa Kirin, Helsinn Healthcare, Mundipharma, Stemline 
and Galderma, and lectured at educational events sponsored by MSD, Takeda, 
Galderma, Kyowa Kirin, Stemline and Helsinn Healthcare all outside of the 
submitted work. Sean Whittaker: advisory boards for Kyowa Kirin and 
Recordati. Rein Willemze: none. Franz Trautinger: received consulting and 
lecture fees from Kyowa Kirin, Recordati Rare Diseases and Takeda.


317. BMJ Open. 2023 Oct 27;13(10):e068733. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-068733.

Intervention targets for reducing mortality between mid-adolescence and 
mid-adulthood: a protocol for a machine-learning facilitated systematic umbrella 
review.

Kerr JA(1)(2)(3), Gillespie AN(3)(4), O'Connor M(3)(4)(5), Deane C(6), 
Borschmann R(2)(7)(8)(9), Dashti SG(3)(10), Spry EA(2)(3)(6), Heerde 
JA(2)(3)(11), Möller H(12), Ivers R(12), Boden JM(13), Scott JG(14)(15), Bucks 
RS(16)(17), Glauert R(17), Kinner SA(2)(7)(18)(19), Olsson CA(2)(3)(6), Patton 
GC(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Medicine, University of Otago, Christchurch, New 
Zealand Jessica.kerr@otago.ac.nz.
(2)Centre for Adolescent Health, Murdoch Children's Research Institute, 
Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Department of Paediatrics, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, 
Australia.
(4)Centre for Community Child Health, Murdoch Children's Research Institute, 
Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(5)Melbourne Graduate School of Education, The University of Melbourne, 
Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(6)Centre for Social and Early Emotional Development, School of Psychology, 
Faculty of Health, Deakin University, Burwood, Victoria, Australia.
(7)Centre for Health Equity, Justice Health Unit, Melbourne School of Population 
and Global Health, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, Warneford Hospital, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
UK.
(9)Melbourne School of Psychological Sciences, The University of Melbourne, 
Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(10)Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics Unit, Murdoch Children's Research 
Institute, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(11)Department of Social Work, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, 
Australia.
(12)School of Population Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New 
South Wales, Australia.
(13)Department of Psychological Medicine, University of Otago, Christchurch, New 
Zealand.
(14)Child Health Research Centre, The University of Queensland, South Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia.
(15)Child and Youth Mental Health Service, Children's Health Queensland, South 
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(16)School of Psychological Science, The University of Western Australia, Perth, 
Western Australia, Australia.
(17)The Raine Study, School of Population and Global Health, The University of 
Western Australia, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(18)School of Population Health, Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia, 
Australia.
(19)Griffith Criminology Institute, Griffith University, Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.

INTRODUCTION: A rise in premature mortality-defined here as death during the 
most productive years of life, between adolescence and middle adulthood (15-60 
years)-is contributing to stalling life expectancy in high-income countries. 
Causes of mortality vary, but often include substance misuse, suicide, 
unintentional injury and non-communicable disease. The development of 
evidence-informed policy frameworks to guide new approaches to prevention 
require knowledge of early targets for intervention, and interactions between 
higher level drivers. Here, we aim to: (1) identify systematic reviews with or 
without meta-analyses focused on intervention targets for premature mortality 
(in which intervention targets are causes of mortality that can, at least 
hypothetically, be modified to reduce risk); (2) evaluate the review quality and 
risk of bias; (3) compare and evaluate each review's, and their relevant primary 
studies, findings to identify existing evidence gaps.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: In May 2023, we searched electronic databases (MEDLINE, 
PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library) for peer-reviewed papers published in the 
English language in the 12 years from 2012 to 2023 that examined intervention 
targets for mortality. Screening will narrow these papers to focus on systematic 
reviews with or without meta-analyses, and their primary papers. Our outcome is 
death between ages 15 and 60 years; with potential intervention targets measured 
prior to death. A MeaSurement Tool to Assess systematic Reviews (AMSTAR 2) will 
be used to assess quality and risk of bias within included systematic reviews. 
Results will be synthesised narratively due to anticipated heterogeneity between 
reviews and between primary studies contained within included reviews.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This review will synthesise findings from published 
systematic reviews and meta-analyses, and their primary reviewed studies, 
meaning ethics committee approval is not required. Our findings will inform 
cross-cohort consortium development, be published in a peer-reviewed journal, 
and be presented at national and international conferences.
PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42022355861.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-068733
PMCID: PMC10619087
PMID: 37890970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


318. Oral Dis. 2023 Oct 27. doi: 10.1111/odi.14749. Online ahead of print.

Cachexia and head and neck squamous cell carcinoma: A scoping review.

Porter SR(1), Ukwas A(1).

Author information:
(1)UCL Eastman Dental Institute, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this paper was to provide an understanding of 
cachexia in relation to oral squamous cell carcinoma relevant to oral health 
care. The paper is a scoping review of aspects of the clinical presentation, 
aetiology and management of cachexia in relation to oral health and oral health 
care.
METHODS: A combined search of MEDLINE and EMBASE databases (via OVID) was 
conducted using the terms ([Head and Neck] OR [Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma]) 
AND (Cachexia). Duplicates were removed and results were subsequently limited to 
studies published between 2000 and 2023, humans and English language. After 
screening and full-text assessment a total number of 87 studies were included in 
the review.
RESULTS: It is evident that cachexia is a not uncommon feature of patients with 
advanced malignancy of the head and neck driven by a multitude of mechanisms, 
induced by the tumour itself, that lead to reduced nutritional intake, increased 
metabolism and loss of adipose and skeletal tissue.
CONCLUSION: While a variety of nutritional, physical, psychological and 
pharmacological interventions may improve quality and duration of life, 
ultimately the diagnosis of cachexia in relation to head and neck cancer remains 
an indicator of poor life expectancy.

© 2023 The Authors. Oral Diseases published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/odi.14749
PMID: 37891012


319. Cancer Radiother. 2023 Oct 25:S1278-3218(23)00218-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.canrad.2023.08.004. Online ahead of print.

Clinical trials that will change practices: News in palliative radiotherapy.

Agnoux E(1), Renan A(1), Faivre JC(2).

Author information:
(1)Academic Department of Radiation Therapy & Brachytherapy, institut de 
cancérologie de Lorraine, centre Alexis-Vautrin, Vandœuvre-lès-Nancy, France.
(2)Academic Department of Radiation Therapy & Brachytherapy, institut de 
cancérologie de Lorraine, centre Alexis-Vautrin, Vandœuvre-lès-Nancy, France. 
Electronic address: jeanchristophe.faivre@gmail.com.

Palliative radiotherapy is used to alleviate cancer-related symptoms. 
Symptomatic responses to palliative radiotherapy may however take several weeks, 
meaning that patients need to survive long enough to derive a real benefit. 
Oncologists can be optimistic when estimating survival for patients with 
advanced cancer and as a consequence some patients receiving palliative 
radiotherapy die before experiencing any gain. Models of patient survival have 
limited accuracy, particularly for predicting whether patients will die within 
the next 30 days. Dedicated rapid access palliative radiotherapy clinics, in 
which patients are assessed, simulated and treated on the same day, reduce the 
number of patient visits to the radiation oncology department and hence the 
burden on the patient as well as costs. Teleconsultation and advanced practice 
nurses can play a crucial role in providing rapid access to palliative 
radiotherapy in a dedicated palliative radiotherapy service. Single-fraction 
palliative radiotherapy should be offered to eligible patients if they are able 
to attend treatment and could potentially benefit from symptom palliation, 
irrespective of predicted life expectancy. Technical and organizational 
innovations have been proposed in order to dispense with the computed tomography 
scanner by carrying out the dosimetry on a recent diagnostic scanner or a 
magnetic resonance imaging scanner with integrated linear acceleration system. 
Stereotactic body radiation therapy makes it possible to envisage greater and 
more lasting analgesic benefits in patients with painful bone metastasis and 
good prognosis. Flash radiotherapy remains at the preclinical stage.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2023.08.004
PMID: 37891036


320. Dent Mater. 2023 Oct 25:S0109-5641(23)00399-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.dental.2023.09.012. Online ahead of print.

To etch or not to etch, Part III: On the hydrophobic-rich content and fatigue 
strength of universal adhesives after long-term ageing.

Stape THS(1), Mutluay M(2), Tezvergil-Mutluay A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Restorative Dentistry and Cariology, Adhesive Dentistry 
Research Group, Institute of Dentistry, University of Turku, Turku, Finland; 
Turku University Hospital, TYKS, University of Turku, Turku, Finland. Electronic 
address: thiago.stape@utu.fi.
(2)Department of Restorative Dentistry and Cariology, Adhesive Dentistry 
Research Group, Institute of Dentistry, University of Turku, Turku, Finland; 
Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, Institute of Dentistry, University of 
Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(3)Department of Restorative Dentistry and Cariology, Adhesive Dentistry 
Research Group, Institute of Dentistry, University of Turku, Turku, Finland; 
Turku University Hospital, TYKS, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.

OBJECTIVES: To examine whether dentin-etching extension and/or the 
hydrophobic-rich content of hybrid layers would affect fatigue strengths of a 
mild universal adhesive after long-term aging.
METHODS: Twin-bonded resin-dentin interfaces were produced by etching sound 
midcoronal dentin beams with 32 % ortho-phosphoric acid for 15 s (OPA15s), 3 s 
(OPA3s) or 10 % meta-phosphoric acid for 15 s (MPA15s). Samples were bonded with 
a mild universal adhesive with or without additional coating using a 
solvent-free bisGMA-based bonding resin. Self-etch application served as 
control. Composite buildups were made with a nanofilled composite. Bar-shaped 
twin-bonded interfaces (0.9 × 0.9 × 12 mm) were aged for two years in artificial 
saliva at 37 ℃ and tested under 4-point flexure at quasi-static (n = 16) and 
cyclic loads (n = 35) until failure. The stress-life fatigue behavior was 
evaluated using the staircase method at 4 Hz. Crack initiation and fracture 
patterns were evaluated by SEM. Cyclic-loaded data was analyzed by 
Kruskal-Wallis on Ranks (α = 0.05).
RESULTS: Significantly higher fatigue life distributions and higher endurance 
limits were observed for less aggressive etch-and-rinse protocols (OPA3s and 
MPA15s) after long-term ageing. Hydrophobic-rich coating produced 20-32 % higher 
endurance limits, prevented micrometer-sized porosities at bonded interfaces, 
reduced etching-associated variability and lowered crack formation. Significance 
Long-term hydrolysis produces detrimental effects on the fatigue strength of 
resin-dentin interfaces. The bond-promotion effect of less aggressive 
etch-and-rinse protocols and the creation of hybrid layers with higher 
hydrophobic-rich content are critical to extend the durability of mild universal 
adhesives. Therefore, current oversimplification trends in adhesive dentistry 
may limit resin-dentin bonding performance.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dental.2023.09.012
PMID: 37891131


321. Clin Drug Investig. 2023 Nov;43(11):839-850. doi:
10.1007/s40261-023-01311-5.  Epub 2023 Oct 27.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Atezolizumab versus Platinum-Based Chemotherapy 
as First-Line Treatment for Patients with Unresectable Advanced Non-small Cell 
Lung Cancer with PD-L1 Expression Status in Japan.

Chisaki Y(1), Nakano H(2), Minamide J(2), Yano Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Education and Research Center for Clinical Pharmacy, Kyoto Pharmaceutical 
University, 5-Nakauchi-cho, Misasagi, Yamashina-ku, Kyoto, 607-8414, Japan. 
chisaki@mb.kyoto-phu.ac.jp.
(2)Education and Research Center for Clinical Pharmacy, Kyoto Pharmaceutical 
University, 5-Nakauchi-cho, Misasagi, Yamashina-ku, Kyoto, 607-8414, Japan.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Atezolizumab has demonstrated safety and efficacy in 
patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in the IMpower110 
trial. The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
atezolizumab as the first-line treatment for patients with unresectable advanced 
NSCLC, including programmed cell death ligand-1 (PD-L1)-positive probability 
testing, from the perspective of healthcare costs in Japan.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis model for atezolizumab, including 
PD-L1-positive probability testing, was used to construct a partitioned survival 
model with three health states. To assess the robustness, a probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis (PSA) was conducted. The acceptable probability was defined 
as the probability of willingness-to-pay (WTP) over the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Multiple repetitions at WTP thresholds were 
calculated by continuously reducing the atezolizumab price.
RESULTS: The ICER per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) for atezolizumab therapy 
only for patients with high PD-L1 expression compared to platinum-based 
chemotherapy for all patients was 31,975,792 yen per QALY. This is higher than 
the WTP threshold of 15,000,000 yen. If the cost of atezolizumab were reduced to 
54% of the original cost (563,917 yen), the strategy of using atezolizumab for 
patients with high PD-L1 could become more cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicated that atezolizumab was not cost-effective 
compared to platinum-based chemotherapy as a first-line treatment for patients 
with unresectable advanced NSCLC. However, we suggest that the price of 
atezolizumab should be reduced to 54% of the original cost to meet the WTP 
threshold of 15,000,000 yen per QALY.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40261-023-01311-5
PMID: 37891362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. BMC Public Health. 2023 Oct 27;23(1):2120. doi: 10.1186/s12889-023-17046-z.

Global trends and regional differences in disease burden of stroke among 
children: a trend analysis based on the global burden of disease study 2019.

Du M(1), Mi D(2), Liu M(1), Liu J(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, No.38, Xueyuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100191, China.
(2)Beijing Tiantan Hospital, China National Clinical Research Center for 
Neurological Diseases, Capital Medical University, 119 South Fourth Ring West 
Road, Fengtai District, Beijing, 100871, China.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, No.38, Xueyuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100191, China. 
jueliu@bjmu.edu.cn.
(4)Institute for Global Health and Development, Peking University, No.5, 
Yiheyuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100871, China. jueliu@bjmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Stroke is a major cause of acute neurological symptoms in children 
with significant long-term neurological sequelae. However, data of diseases 
burden on stroke among children was lack. We aimed to be dedicated to analyze 
and compare global trends as well as regional and sociodemographic differences 
in stroke prevalence, incidence, mortality and disability-adjusted life-years 
(DALYs) among children aged 0 ~ 14 years.
METHOD: We obtained data on annual number of incident strokes, prevalent 
strokes, deaths, and DALYs, age-standardized incidence rates (ASIRs), prevalence 
rates (ASPRs), mortality rates (ASMRs) and DALY rates (ASDRs) of stroke among 
individuals aged 14 years and younger during 1990-2019 from the 2019 Global 
Burden of Disease Study. To quantify the temporal trends, we calculated changes 
(%) in number, and used joinpoint regression analysis to identify the average 
annual percentage changes (AAPCs) of age standardized rates.
RESULT: Globally, the incident strokes and prevalent strokes increased by 18.51% 
and 31.97%, respectively, but DALYs due to stroke and deaths due to stroke 
decreased by 60.18% and 65.03%, respectively, from 1990 to 2019. During the same 
period, ASIR increased by 0.21% (95%CI: 0.17, 0.24) from 18.02 to 100,000 
population in 1990 to 19.11 per 100,000 in 2019; ASPR increased by 0.66% (95%CI: 
0.36, 0.96) from 68.88 to 100,000 population in 1990 to 81.35 per 100,000 in 
2019; while ASMR (AAPC= -3.94; 95%CI: -4.07, -3.81) and ASDR (AAPC= -3.50; 
95%CI: -3.64, -3.36) both decreased. In 2019, the highest age standardized 
incidence, prevalence, mortality, and DALY rates all occurred in low 
sociodemographic index (SDI) regions. The greatest increase of age standardized 
incidence rate (AAPC = 0.21; 95%CI: 0.18, 0.25) and prevalence rate 
(AAPC = 1.15; 95%CI: 0.34, 1.96) both were in high SDI regions. Eastern 
Sub-Saharan Africa had the highest ASIR and ASPR in 2019, and Oceania had the 
highest ASMR and ASDR in 2019 across 21 GBD regions. High-income North America 
had the largest increase in ASIR (AAPC = 0.63; 95%CI: 0.59, 0.66) and ASPR 
(AAPC = 1.58; 95%CI: 0.54, 2.63). Against the overall decreasing trend of ASMR, 
an increasing trend of ASMR was found in Zimbabwe (AAPC = 0.91; 95%CI: 0.44, 
1.37) and Botswana (AAPC = 0.74; 95%CI: 0.02, 1.47).
CONCLUSION: The overall increasing stroke incidence and prevalence indicated 
that prevention and management of stroke among younger population should be 
critical in the future. Despite stroke mortality with falling trend worldwide, 
specific countries or territories present worrying increase in stroke mortality. 
Without urgent implementation of effective primary prevention strategies, the 
stroke burden of children will probably continue to grow across the world, 
particularly in high-SDI countries.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-023-17046-z
PMCID: PMC10612321
PMID: 37891500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors declare no conflict of interest with the 
content of this article.


323. Nutrients. 2023 Oct 16;15(20):4382. doi: 10.3390/nu15204382.

Association of Nutritional Status and Diet Diversity with Skeletal Muscle 
Strength and Quality of Life among Older Arab Adults: A Cross-Sectional Study.

Alotaibi R(1), Aladel A(1), Alshammari SA(2), Abulmeaty MMA(1), Alhamdan AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Sciences, College of Applied Medical Sciences, 
King Saud University, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Family and Community Medicine, College of Medicine, King Saud 
University, Riyadh 11461, Saudi Arabia.

There is little research evaluating skeletal muscle strength, nutritional 
status, and quality of life in older Arab adults. This study examined the 
association of nutritional status with skeletal muscle strength and quality of 
life among older adults living in Saudi Arabia. A cross-sectional study was 
conducted among older adults (n = 166 older adults; 57.8% females) who visited 
primary outpatient clinics at King Khalid University Hospital in Riyadh City. 
Sociodemographic data, Mini Nutritional Assessment short-form (MNA-SF), diet 
variety score (DVS), and health-related quality of life (HR-QoL) were assessed. 
Furthermore, handgrip strength (HGS) and knee extension strength (KES) were 
measured to evaluate skeletal muscle strength. Malnourishment and risk of 
malnutrition were found in 16.9% of our sample. Nutritional status was 
significantly associated with muscle strength and HR-QoL (p < 0.05). The 
well-nourished group had higher HGS, KES, and total HR-QoL scores compared to 
the at risk of malnutrition or malnourished group. Moreover, there was a 
moderate positive correlation between MNA-SF and total HR-QoL scores (r = 0.40). 
The percentage of individuals in the well-nourished group categorized with a 
high or moderate DVS was significantly higher than those at risk of malnutrition 
or are malnourished; however, DVS was not associated with muscle strength and 
HR-QoL. The MNA-SF score had a significant positive correlation with HGS (r = 
0.30) and KES (r = 0.23). An increase in the MNA-SF score was significantly 
associated with higher odds of being moderate/high (HGS and HR-QoL) in the crude 
and adjusted models. In conclusion, maintaining adequate nutritional status is 
beneficial for preserving skeletal muscle strength and promoting better HR-QoL 
among older individuals. Therefore, applications of appropriate nutritional and 
muscle strength assessments in geriatric care institutions are recommended.

DOI: 10.3390/nu15204382
PMCID: PMC10609555
PMID: 37892457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


324. Bioengineering (Basel). 2023 Oct 3;10(10):1160. doi: 
10.3390/bioengineering10101160.

Investigation of a Deep Brain Stimulator (DBS) System.

Whitestone J(1), Salih A(1), Goswami T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical, Industrial and Human Factors Engineering, Wright 
State University, Dayton, OH 45435, USA.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Sports Medicine and Rehabilitation, Miami 
Valley Hospital, Dayton, OH 45409, USA.

A deep brain stimulator (DBS) device is a surgically implanted system that 
delivers electrical impulses to specific targets in the brain to treat abnormal 
movement disorders. A DBS is like a cardiac pacemaker, but instead of sending 
electrical signals to the heart, it sends them to the brain instead. When DBS 
leads and extension wires are exposed in the biological environment, this can 
adversely affect impedance and battery life, resulting in poor clinical 
outcomes. A posthumously extracted DBS device was evaluated using visual 
inspection and optical microscopy as well as electrical and mechanical tests to 
quantify the damage leading to its impairment. The implantable pulse generator 
(IPG) leads, a component of the DBS, contained cracks, delamination, 
exfoliations, and breakage. Some aspects of in vivo damage were observed in 
localized areas discussed in this paper. The duration of the time in months that 
the DBS was in vivo was estimated based on multiple regression analyses of 
mechanical property testing from prior research of pacemaker extensions. The 
test results of three DBS extensions, when applied to the regressions, were used 
to estimate the in vivo duration in months. This estimation approach may provide 
insight into how long the leads can function effectively before experiencing 
mechanical failure. Measurements of the extension coils demonstrated distortion 
and stretching, demonstrating the changes that may occur in vivo. These changes 
can alter the impedance and potentially reduce the effectiveness of the clinical 
treatment provided by the DBS system. Ultimately, as both DBSs and pacemakers 
use the same insulation and lead materials, the focus of this paper is to 
