image guidance capabilities. The inability to obtain resection margin 
information justified an aggressive adjuvant treatment with chemotherapy and 
radiotherapy. The early loss from the oncological record without recurrence of 
the disease could be associated in this case with the consequence of a major 
complication, of which we could assume an aspiration pneumonia secondary to a 
dysphagia associated with an aggressive multidisciplinary treatment. Large tumor 
size and positive resection margins (R1 resection) are risk factors that support 
an intensive adjuvant approach in order to reduce the risk of recurrence, but 
the low grade of tumor associated with a lower risk of recurrence as well as the 
adverse events (AE) of adjuvant radiotherapy and chemotherapy justify a more 
reserved therapeutic approach. Taking into account the longer life expectancy of 
these patients, it is recommended to use a more conformal irradiation technique 
in order to reduce doses to radiosensitive structures as well as to omit 
elective neck irradiation, taking into account the lower risk of lymph node 
involvement. The lack of guidelines, which include very rare tumors including 
low grade chondrosarcoma of the head and neck, makes a unified approach 
difficult, but the data presented in case reports could contribute to choosing 
the regimen that offers the best therapeutic ratio.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics13193026
PMCID: PMC10572587
PMID: 37835769

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


165. Plants (Basel). 2023 Oct 4;12(19):3478. doi: 10.3390/plants12193478.

Anatomical and Transcriptome Analyses of Moso Bamboo Culm Neck Growth: Unveiling 
Key Insights.

Guo L(1), Chen T(2), Chu X(1), Sun K(1), Yu F(3), Que F(1), Ahmad Z(1), Wei 
Q(1)(3), Ramakrishnan M(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Tree Genetics and Breeding, Co-Innovation Center for 
Sustainable Forestry in Southern China, Bamboo Research Institute, Key 
Laboratory of National Forestry and Grassland Administration on Subtropical 
Forest Biodiversity Conservation, School of Life Sciences, Nanjing Forestry 
University, Nanjing 210037, China.
(2)Changzhou Agricultural Technology Extension Center, Changzhou 213000, China.
(3)Jiangxi Provincial Key Laboratory for Bamboo Germplasm Resources and 
Utilization, Jiangxi Agriculture University, Nanchang 330045, China.

The Moso bamboo culm neck, connected with the rhizome and the shoot bud, is an 
important hub for connecting and transporting the aboveground and belowground 
systems of bamboo for the shoot bud development and rapid growth. Our previous 
study revealed that the culm neck generally undergoes six different 
developmental stages (CNS1-CNS6), according to the primary thickening growth of 
the underground shoot bud. However, the molecular mechanism of the culm neck 
development remains unknown. The present study focused on the developmental 
process of the CNS3-CNS5 stages, representing the early, middle, and late 
elongation stages, respectively. These stages are densely packed with vascular 
tissues and consist of epidermis, hypodermis, cortex, and ground tissue. Unlike 
the hollow structure of the culms, the culm necks are solid structures. As the 
culm neck continues to grow, the lignin deposition increases noticeably, 
contributing to its progressive strengthening. For the transcriptome analysis, a 
total of 161,160 transcripts with an average length of 2373 were obtained from 
these stages using both PacBio and Illumina sequencing. A total of 92.2% of the 
reads mapped to the Moso bamboo reference genome. Further analysis identified a 
total of 5524 novel genes and revealed a dynamic transcriptome. 
Secondary-metabolism- and transport-related genes were upregulated particularly 
with the growth of the culm neck. Further analysis revealed the molecular 
processes of lignin accumulation in the culm neck, which include differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) related to cell wall loosening and remodeling and 
secondary metabolism. Moreover, the upregulations of transcription factors such 
as MYBH and RSM in the MYB family play crucial roles during critical transitions 
in the culm neck development, such as changes in the angle between the rhizome 
and the culm neck. Our new findings provide essential insights into the cellular 
roadmaps, transcriptional networks, and key genes involved in the culm neck 
development.

DOI: 10.3390/plants12193478
PMCID: PMC10574802
PMID: 37836218

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as potential conflicts of interest.


166. Nutrients. 2023 Sep 22;15(19):4100. doi: 10.3390/nu15194100.

Implementation and Core Components of a Multimodal Program including Exercise 
and Nutrition in Prevention and Treatment of Frailty in Community-Dwelling Older 
Adults: A Narrative Review.

Delaire L(1)(2), Courtay A(1)(2), Humblot J(1)(2), Aubertin-Leheudre M(3)(4), 
Mourey F(5), Racine AN(6), Gilbert T(1)(2)(7), Niasse-Sy Z(1)(2), Bonnefoy 
M(1)(2)(8).

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine du Vieillissement, Hôpital Lyon Sud, Hospices Civils de 
Lyon, 69495 Pierre-Bénite, France.
(2)Programme «Bien sur ses Jambes», Hôpital Lyon Sud, Hospices Civils de Lyon, 
69495 Pierre-Bénite, France.
(3)Centre de Recherche de L'Institut Universitaire de Gériatrie de Montréal 
(CRIUGM), Montréal, QC H3W 1W5, Canada.
(4)Groupe de Recherche en Activité Physique Adaptée, Département des Sciences de 
l'Activité Physique, Université du Québec à Montréal (UQÀM), Montréal, QC H2L 
2C4, Canada.
(5)Laboratoire CAPS (Cognition, Action, et Plasticité Sensorimotrice), Inserm 
U1093, UFR STAPS, Université de Bourgogne, Campus Universitaire, BP 27877, 21078 
Dijon, France.
(6)Université Côte D'Azur, LAMHESS, 06205 Nice, France.
(7)RESHAPE Research on Healthcare Professionals and Performance, Inserm U1290, 
Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, 69008 Lyon, France.
(8)Inserm U1060-CarMeN, Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, 69100 Villeurbanne, 
France.

Increasing disability-free life expectancy is a crucial issue to optimize active 
ageing and to reduce the burden of evitable medical costs. One of the main 
challenges is to develop pragmatic and personalized prevention strategies in 
order to prevent frailty, counteract adverse outcomes such as falls and mobility 
disability, and to improve quality of life. Strong evidence reports the 
effectiveness of exercise interventions to improve various physical parameters 
and muscle function that are cornerstones of frailty. Other findings also 
suggest that the interactions between nutrition and physical exercise with or 
without health behavior promotion prevent the development of frailty. Multimodal 
programs, including structured exercise, adequate dietary intervention and 
health behavior promotion, appear increasingly consensual. However, in order for 
implementation in real-life settings, some pitfalls need to be addressed. In 
this perspective, structuring and tailoring feasible, acceptable and sustainable 
interventions to optimize exercise training responses are essential conditions 
to warrant short, medium and long-term individual benefits. The different 
components of exercise programs appear to be fairly consensual and effective. 
However, specific composition of the programs proposed (frequency, intensity, 
type, time, volume and progressiveness) have to be tailored to individual 
characteristics and objectives in order to improve exercise responses. The 
intervention approaches, behavioral strategies and indications for these 
programs also need to be refined and framed. The main objective of this work is 
to guide the actions of healthcare professionals and enable them to widely and 
effectively implement multimodal programs including exercise, nutrition and 
behavioral strategies in real-life settings.

DOI: 10.3390/nu15194100
PMCID: PMC10574358
PMID: 37836384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


167. Nutrients. 2023 Oct 8;15(19):4293. doi: 10.3390/nu15194293.

The Role of Healthy Diet and Lifestyle in Centenarians.

Simoes EJ(1), Ramos LR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Biostatistics and Medical Epidemiology, 
School of Medicine, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65212, USA.
(2)Department of Preventive Medicine, Federal University of Sao Paulo, São Paulo 
04024-002, Brazil.

Life expectancy at birth (hereafter, life expectancy) and longevity are 
established indicators of population health [...].

DOI: 10.3390/nu15194293
PMCID: PMC10574171
PMID: 37836577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


168. J Anat. 2023 Oct 14. doi: 10.1111/joa.13955. Online ahead of print.

Running, jumping, hunting, and scavenging: Functional analysis of vertebral 
mobility and backbone properties in carnivorans.

Belyaev RI(1), Nikolskaia P(2), Bushuev AV(3), Panyutina AA(4), Kozhanova DA(5), 
Prilepskaya NE(1).

Author information:
(1)A.N. Severtsov Institute of Ecology and Evolution, Russian Academy of 
Sciences, Moscow, Russian Federation.
(2)Geological Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russian 
Federation.
(3)Department of Vertebrate Zoology, Faculty of Biology, Lomonosov Moscow State 
University, Moscow, Russian Federation.
(4)Faculty of Life Sciences, School of Zoology, Tel-Aviv University, Tel Aviv, 
Israel.
(5)Department of Paleontology, Faculty of Geology, Lomonosov Moscow State 
University, Moscow, Russian Federation.

Carnivorans are well-known for their exceptional backbone mobility, which 
enables them to excel in fast running and long jumping, leading to them being 
among the most successful predators amongst terrestrial mammals. This study 
presents the first large-scale analysis of mobility throughout the presacral 
region of the vertebral column in carnivorans. The study covers representatives 
of 6 families, 24 genera and 34 species. We utilized a previously developed 
osteometry-based method to calculate available range of motion, quantifying all 
three directions of intervertebral mobility: sagittal bending (SB), lateral 
bending (LB), and axial rotation (AR). We observed a strong phylogenetic signal 
in the structural basis of the vertebral column (vertebral and joint formulae, 
length proportions of the backbone modules) and an insignificant phylogenetic 
signal in most characteristics of intervertebral mobility. This indicates that 
within the existing structure (stabilization of which occurred rather early in 
different phylogenetic lineages), intervertebral mobility in carnivorans is 
quite flexible. Our findings reveal that hyenas and canids, which use their jaws 
to seize prey, are characterized by a noticeably elongated cervical region and 
significantly higher SB and LB mobility of the cervical joints compared to other 
carnivorans. In representatives of other carnivoran families, the cervical 
region is very short, but the flexibility of the neck (both SB and LB) is 
significantly higher than that of short-necked odd-toed and even-toed ungulates. 
The lumbar region of the backbone in carnivorans is dorsomobile in the sagittal 
plane, being on average ~23° more mobile than in artiodactyls and ~38° more 
mobile than in perissodactyls. However, despite the general dorsomobility, only 
some representatives of Canidae, Felidae, and Viverridae are superior in lumbar 
flexibility to the most dorsomobile ungulates. The most dorsomobile artiodactyls 
are equal or even superior to carnivorans in their ability to engage in dorsal 
extension during galloping. In contrast, carnivorans are far superior to 
ungulates in their ability to engage ventral flexion. The cumulative SB in the 
lumbar region in carnivorans largely depends on the mode of running and hunting. 
Thus, adaptation to prolonged and enduring pursuit of prey in hyenas is 
accompanied by markedly reduced SB flexibility in the lumbar region. A more 
dorsostable run is also a characteristic of the Ursidae, and the peculiar maned 
wolf. Representatives of Felidae and Canidae have significantly more available 
SB mobility in the lumbar region. However, they fully engage it only 
occasionally at key moments of the hunt associated with the direct capture of 
the prey or when running in a straight line at maximum speed.

© 2023 The Authors. Journal of Anatomy published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on 
behalf of Anatomical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/joa.13955
PMID: 37837214


169. Health Informatics J. 2023 Oct-Dec;29(4):14604582231207745. doi: 
10.1177/14604582231207745.

Health perceptions and attitudes on mobile health apps in China.

Zhang X(1), Raghavan V(2), Yang X(3).

Author information:
(1)Management, Information Systems and Quantitative Methods, The University of 
Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(2)Information Systems & Analytics, Northern Kentucky University, Highland 
Heights, KY, USA.
(3)Zhejiang Agriculture and Forestry University, Linan, China.

Since the COVID-19 pandemic, the use of mobile health apps has been increasing 
significantly. Many have started using mobile health apps to manage their health 
and well-being. People need to develop healthy habits that will increase their 
job productivity, life expectancy and improve their social relationships. This 
study tests the Health Belief Model with adults in China in influencing health 
motivation and in turn improving their health behavior. A mobile and online 
survey was developed, and 120 usable responses were collected. A structural 
equation modeling was used to test the relationships between perceived benefits, 
perceived susceptibility, perceived barriers, health motivation, and health 
behavior. We found perceived self-efficacy, perceived benefits, and perceived 
susceptibility predicts health motivation, and health motivation predicts health 
behavior. We did not find that perceived barrier is a predictor for health 
motivation. We conclude that to encourage behavioral change, it is important to 
enhance self-efficacy and address the benefits; in the meantime, educating 
people on susceptibility is also important.

DOI: 10.1177/14604582231207745
PMID: 37837412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


170. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2023 Nov 19;682:335-342. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2023.10.024. Epub 2023 Oct 9.

OsNAC2 regulates seed dormancy and germination in rice by inhibiting ABA 
catabolism.

Zhao F(1), Ma Q(2), Li Y(1), Jiang M(1), Zhou Z(3), Meng S(1), Peng Y(1), Zhang 
J(4), Ye N(5), Liu B(6).

Author information:
(1)College of Agronomy, Hunan Agricultural University, Changsha, 410128, China; 
Key Laboratory of Crop Physiological and Molecular Biology, Ministry of 
Education, Hunan Agricultural University, Changsha, 410128, China.
(2)College of Agronomy, Hunan Agricultural University, Changsha, 410128, China; 
Agro-Tech Extension Center of Guangdong Province, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510520, 
China.
(3)State Key Laboratory for Managing Biotic and Chemical Threats to the Quality 
and Safety of Agroproducts, Zhejiang Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang, 310021, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Crop Physiological and Molecular Biology, Ministry of 
Education, Hunan Agricultural University, Changsha, 410128, China; Department of 
Biology, Hong Kong Baptist University, Hong Kong, China; School of Life Sciences 
and State Key Laboratory of Agrobiotechnology, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China. Electronic address: jzhang@hkbu.edu.hk.
(5)College of Agronomy, Hunan Agricultural University, Changsha, 410128, China; 
Key Laboratory of Crop Physiological and Molecular Biology, Ministry of 
Education, Hunan Agricultural University, Changsha, 410128, China; Agro-Tech 
Extension Center of Guangdong Province, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510520, China. 
Electronic address: nye@hunau.edu.cn.
(6)College of Agronomy, Hunan Agricultural University, Changsha, 410128, China; 
Key Laboratory of Crop Physiological and Molecular Biology, Ministry of 
Education, Hunan Agricultural University, Changsha, 410128, China. Electronic 
address: liubohan@hunau.edu.cn.

Seed dormancy and germination determine the beginning of the life cycle of 
plants, and the phytohormone ABA plays a crucial role in regulation of seed 
dormancy and germination. However, the upstream regulatory mechanism of ABA 
metabolism during dormancy releasing is still remain elusive. In this paper, we 
present a novel mechanism of OsNAC2 in controlling ABA metabolism and regulation 
of seed dormancy. OsNAC2 highly expressed during seed development and 
germination, and overexpression of OsNAC2 strengthened seed dormancy and 
suppressed germination. Moreover, exogenous phytohormone treatment showed that 
OsNAC2 acted upstream of GA signaling and downstream of ABA signaling. 
Additionally, overexpression of OsNAC2 inhibited ABA degradation and increased 
ABA content during early germination. Further molecular analysis revealed that 
OsNAC2 directly bound to the ABA metabolism genes promoter and inhibits their 
transcription in rice protoplasts. These finding could help us explain the 
genetic regulation mechanism of ABA metabolism during dormancy release and 
germination in rice.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2023.10.024
PMID: 37837754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflicts of interest or personal relationships that 
could have potentially influenced the results of this paper.


171. Lancet. 2023 Oct 14;402(10410):1382-1392. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(23)00868-1.

Health and inclusive labour force participation.

Burdorf A(1), Fernandes RCP(2), Robroek SJW(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, Netherlands. Electronic address: a.burdorf@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Faculdade de Medicina da Bahia, Universidade Federal da Bahia, Bahia, Brazil.
(3)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, Netherlands.

The future of work is rapidly changing, with higher flexibility of the labour 
market and increasing informal employment in many countries worldwide. There is 
also an increased pressure to extend working careers until older age. We 
introduce the concept of working life expectancy as a useful metric, capturing 
the expected numer of years in paid employment across the working age 
individuals, in particular among different groups. We describe factors that 
determine working life expectancy. Macro-level factors focus on the 
socioeconomic and political context that influences labour force participation, 
primarily policies and legislation in specific countries. At the meso level, 
employment contracts and working conditions are important. The micro level shows 
that individual characteristics, such as education, gender, and age, influence 
working careers. There are three important groups with a disadvantaged position 
in the labour market-workers with chronic diseases, workers with impairing 
disabilities, and workers aged 50 years or more. Within each of these 
disadvantaged groups, macro-level, meso-level, and micro-level factors that 
influence entering and exiting paid employment are discussed. To assure that 
paid employment is available for everyone of working age and that work 
contributes to better health, specific challenges need to be addressed at the 
macro, meso, and micro levels. To reach inclusive labour force participation, 
national policies, company practices, and workplace improvements need to be 
aligned to ensure safe and healthy workplaces that contribute to the health and 
wellbeing of workers and their communities.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(23)00868-1
PMID: 37838443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests We declare no competing 
interests.


172. J Prosthet Dent. 2023 Oct 12:S0022-3913(23)00547-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.prosdent.2023.07.037. Online ahead of print.

Evaluation and comparison of retention and patient satisfaction with milled 
polyetheretherketone versus metal maxillary obturators.

Ghazy ES(1), Altonbary GY(2), Gebreel A(2), El-Daker MA(3), Hegazy SA(4).

Author information:
(1)Assistant Lecturer, Department of Removable Prosthodontics, Faculty of 
Dentistry, Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt. Electronic address: 
enassaad@mans.edu.eg.
(2)Associate Professor, Department of Removable Prosthodontics, Faculty of 
Dentistry, Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt.
(3)Professor, Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Mansoura 
University, Mansoura, Egypt.
(4)Professor, Department of Removable Prosthodontics, Faculty of Dentistry, 
Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt.

STATEMENT OF PROBLEM: Metal and polyetheretherketone (PEEK) have been used to 
rehabilitate maxillary defects with obturators, each having advantages and 
disadvantages. However, patient satisfaction with the obturator retention of 
each material is unclear.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this crossover clinical study was to compare retention 
and patient satisfaction between a milled cobalt chromium and a milled PEEK 
framework, each with a hollow bulb extension in polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Twenty patients who had received unilateral total 
maxillectomy and were treated in the prosthodontic department's maxillofacial 
clinic were enrolled in this crossover study. Each participant wore 2 different 
types of obturators for 6 months after insertion. Type CoCr received a milled 
cobalt chromium framework with a hollow bulb extension in PMMA first, and type 
Pk received a milled modified PEEK (BioHPP) framework with a hollow bulb 
extension in PMMA first. Patient satisfaction and retention force were measured 
immediately, at 3 months, and at 6 months after obturator insertions. The 
Fischer exact, chi-squared, and Monte Carlo tests were used to compare 
qualitative data. One-way ANOVA with the post hoc Tukey test was used for 
pair-wise comparison, and repeated measures ANOVA was used to compare before and 
after treatment at 3 and 6 months.
RESULTS: No significant difference was found between types in obturator 
insertion (P>.999), appearance of the upper lip (P>.999), mouth feeling 
(P=.301), pronunciation of words (P=.217), and talking in public (P=.589). A 
significant difference between types was found in speech after 6 months of 
obturator insertion (P=.016), swallowing liquids and food (P=.04), masticating 
foods (P=.007), appearance of clasps on anterior teeth (P=.002), satisfaction 
with appearance (P=.005), or avoidance of family events (P=.014) after 6 months 
of insertion. Types of obturators showed a statistically significant decrease in 
retention force with time (P<.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Although the retention force was less with PEEK than with Co-Cr 
clasps engaging the same undercuts, this retention force was adequate for 
retaining removable partial dentures. Co-Cr clasps can be considered better than 
PEEK clasps because they engage the same undercuts regarding loss of retention 
with time. Quality of life in patients after maxillary resection could be 
improved by using maxillary obturators. Type Pk was better than type CoCr in 
terms of esthetics, but the retention of the PEEK obturator after 6 months 
decreased because of wear, leading to difficulty swallowing food or liquids, 
mastication, and speech.

Copyright © 2023 Editorial Council for The Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prosdent.2023.07.037
PMID: 37838571


173. Can J Urol. 2023 Oct;30(5):11686-11691.

Propensity score matched survival analysis of octogenarians with muscle-invasive 
bladder cancer: chemoradiation compared to radical cystectomy.

Avudaiappan AP(1), Prabhakar P(1), Ganapathi H(2), VanderVeer-Harris N(3), Caso 
J(1)(3), Garje R(1), Manoharan M(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urologic Oncology Surgery, Miami Cancer Institute, Miami, 
Florida, USA.
(2)Department of Urology, University of South Florida, Tampa, Florida, USA.
(3)Herbert Wertheim College of Medicine, Florida International University, 
Miami, Florida, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Radical cystectomy (RC) is an effective curative treatment option 
for muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC). However, chemoradiation (CRT) is an 
evolving bladder preservation protocol alternative to RC. With the increase in 
life expectancy, it is essential to understand the survival outcomes among 
octogenarians treated with RC and CRT. In this study, we use the National Cancer 
Database (NCDB) to compare the survival outcomes between RC and CRT in 
octogenarians.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We collected the data of patients treated for bladder 
cancer between 2004 to 2018 from the NCDB. Our primary analytic cohort included 
patients with MIBC (cT2-T4N0M0). We identified the octogenarians and categorized 
them into RC and CRT arms. The RC arm included those who received RC. The CRT 
arm included those who received chemotherapy within 90 days of curative 
radiation therapy. After 1:1 propensity score matching, overall survival (OS) 
outcomes were compared between both arms.
RESULTS: Among the octogenarians, the median OS for patients treated with RC was 
26.1 months (95% CI, 23.9-28.2), and CRT was 28.7 months (95% CI, 26.8-30.6). 
Our covariate analyses showed that academic institutions performed more RC (49% 
RC and 29.7% CRT) and community programs served more CRT (45.7% CRT and 24.2% 
RC). A multivariate Cox regression analysis showed that the mortality risk 
increased as the Charlson-Deyo comorbidity score and T stage increased.
CONCLUSION: Octogenarians treated with RC and CRT had similar OS. As life 
expectancy increases, it is essential to individualize the treatment strategy 
based on risk assessment and its potential benefits.

PMID: 37838996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Epilepsy Behav. 2023 Oct 13;148:109466. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2023.109466.
Online  ahead of print.

Long-term quality of life in patients with focal seizures treated with 
adjunctive eslicarbazepine acetate.

Krishnaiengar SR(1), Cantu D(2), Hall D(2), Gama H(3), Pereira A(3), Grinnell 
T(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Florida, Jacksonville, FL, USA. Electronic address: 
Suparna.krishnaiengar@jax.ufl.edu.
(2)Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc., Marlborough, MA, USA.
(3)Bial-Portela & C.(a), S.A., Coronado (S. Romão e S. Mamede), Portugal.

By controlling seizures, anti-seizure medications can improve health-related 
quality of life (HRQOL). Data from a post-hoc pooled analysis of adjunctive 
eslicarbazepine acetate (ESL) was used to describe HRQOL measures, including 
overall quality of life, seizure worry, emotional well-being, energy/fatigue, 
cognitive functioning, medication effects, social function, and overall score 
over a period of up to one year. Patients who completed a double-blind treatment 
phase (Part 1) of these trials were eligible to enter the open label extension 
(OLE; Part 2). Patients who continued into the OLE initiated adjunctive ESL at 
800 mg/day for 1 month before investigators could titrate dosages based on 
efficacy and tolerability. HRQOL was measured at baseline and at the last 
assessment using the Quality of Life in Epilepsy Inventory (QOLIE-31) in all 
patients who entered the 1-year OLE and in patients who completed the 1-year 
OLE. The mean QOLIE-31 scores and mean change in scores were analyzed using 
paired t-tests. The percentage of patients with improvements in QOLIE-31 scores 
beyond the minimally important change (MIC) threshold from baseline to end of 
1-year OLE is described. Of 1410 patients in the intent-to-treat population, 
1120 patients continued to part 2, and 795 patients completed the OLE. In 
patients who entered the OLE, mean improvements in scores for seizure worry, 
overall quality of life, emotional well-being, medication side effects, social 
functioning, and total score were statistically significant. In patients who 
completed the OLE, the mean change to final assessment was statistically 
significantly improved for all QOLIE categories. In patients who entered the OLE 
with a final assessment, the percentage of patients meeting the MIC for social 
functioning was the highest (46.9%), followed by medication effects (44.9%), and 
seizure worry (42.9%). Patients who completed the OLE with a final assessment 
found a similar rank ordering in QOLIE scale improvements compared with those 
who entered the OLE with a final assessment. For both sets of patient groups, 
the least number of subjects met MIC criteria for the energy/fatigue QOLIE 
category. Treatment with therapeutic doses of adjunctive ESL in patients with 
focal seizures was associated with improvements in HRQOL for a period of up to 
one year.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2023.109466
PMID: 37839247

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: SRK has nothing to disclose. DC, 
DH, and TG are employees of Sunovion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. HG and AP are 
employees of Bial-Portela & C.(a), S.A.


175. Geriatr Nurs. 2023 Oct 13;54:211-218. doi: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2023.09.014. 
Online ahead of print.

Facing uncertainty - Pilot testing of a palliative prognostic index training 
with hospital aged care assessment teams.

Gerber K(1), Bloomer MJ(2), Hayes B(3), Lee CY(4), Lock K(5), Bodna K(6), Yates 
P(7).

Author information:
(1)Melbourne School of Psychological Science, The University of Melbourne, 
Parkville VIC, 3010 Australia; Melbourne Ageing Research Collaboration, National 
Ageing Research Institute, Parkville VIC, 3052 Australia; School of Media and 
Communication, RMIT, Melbourne VIC, 3000 Australia; The Royal Melbourne 
Hospital, Parkville VIC, 3052 Australia. Electronic address: 
kgerber.research@gmail.com.
(2)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Griffith University, Nathan QLD, 4111, 
Australia; Intensive Care Unit, Princess Alexandra Hospital, Woolloongabba, QLD 
4102, Australia; Menzies Health Institute Queensland, Southport 4222 QLD, 
Australia.
(3)Cancer Services, Northern Health, Bundoora VIC, 3083 Australia; Northern 
Clinical School, University of Melbourne, Bundoora VIC, 3083 Australia.
(4)Centre for Medicine Use and Safety, Monash University, Parkville VIC, 3052 
Australia; Department of Nursing, University of Melbourne, Parkville VIC, 3052 
Australia.
(5)Melbourne Ageing Research Collaboration, National Ageing Research Institute, 
Parkville VIC, 3052 Australia; School of Medicine, The University of Melbourne, 
Parkville VIC, 3010 Australia.
(6)Community Advisory Group, Melbourne Ageing Research Collaboration, National 
Ageing Research Institute, Parkville VIC, 3052 Australia.
(7)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Austin Health, Heidelberg VIC, 3084 
Australia; School of Medicine, The University of Melbourne, Parkville VIC, 3010 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Prognostic avoidance can delay discussions about older hospital 
patients' life expectancy. This pilot study examined the effects of a prognostic 
training program on hospital clinicians' knowledge and confidence in identifying 
older patients at risk of dying.
METHODS: Fifty-seven clinicians from aged care assessment teams at two 
Australian hospitals were introduced to the Palliative Prognostic Index, a 
5-item checklist indicating prognoses between 3 and 6 weeks. Mixed-methods 
training evaluation included pre-post-training surveys and semi-structured 
interviews, conducted three months post-training.
RESULTS: Clinicians used a combination of experience, knowledge, and intuition 
as strategies to generate prognoses. Allied health staff relied on intuition 
more often than medical and nursing staff. Prognostic tools were rarely used. 
Pre-post-training comparisons showed significant improvements in clinicians' 
knowledge and confidence in identifying signs of dying, particularly amongst 
allied health. Follow-up interviews highlighted advantages and challenges of 
using prognostic tools. Recommendations are made for addressing these.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2023.09.014
PMID: 37839368

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare there is no conflict of interest.


176. Am J Cardiol. 2023 Dec 15;209:1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2023.09.082. Epub
2023  Oct 12.

Incremental Value of Global Longitudinal Strain for Confirming Heart 
Failure-Related Symptoms in Severe Aortic Stenosis.

Nagai T(1), Horinouchi H(2), Hashimoto K(2), Ijichi T(2), Kamioka N(2), Murakami 
T(2), Ohno Y(2), Yoshioka K(2), Ikari Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Tokai University 
School of Medicine, Kanagawa, Japan. Electronic address: nagait@tokai.ac.jp.
(2)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Tokai University 
School of Medicine, Kanagawa, Japan.

The indications or timing of aortic valve replacement for symptomatic aortic 
stenosis (AS) are based on a patient's life expectancy and symptoms. However, 
clinical decision-making may be difficult because symptoms are subjective and 
cannot be quantitatively assessed and confirmed. This study aimed to evaluate 
the association between heart failure (HF)-related symptoms and cardiac 
hemodynamic left ventricular deformations in patients with severe AS using 
transthoracic echocardiographic assessments of left ventricular global 
longitudinal strain (LV-GLS). The medical records of patients hospitalized for 
AS between February 2017 and September 2019 were retrospectively screened. 
Independent cardiologists analyzed the transthoracic echocardiographic images of 
a digital echocardiography database. The cohort comprised 177 hospitalized 
patients with severe AS and no history of HF. The subgroup with HF-related 
symptoms included 87 patients, whereas that without HF-related symptoms included 
90 patients. In 145 patients without atrial fibrillation, the left atrial volume 
index (LAVI) and LV-GLS were significantly associated with HF-related symptoms 
(odds ratio 1.033, 95% confidence interval 1.008 to 1.059, p = 0.011 and odds 
ratio 1.224, 95% confidence interval 1.118 to 1.340, p <0.0001, respectively). 
Moreover, the combination of brain natriuretic peptide level, LAVI, and LV-GLS 
showed better diagnostic accuracy than the combination of brain natriuretic 
peptide level and LAVI (p = 0.005). However, there were no such tendencies in 32 
patients with atrial fibrillation. The HF-related symptoms in patients with 
severe AS were strongly linked to LV-GLS. LV-GLS showed incremental value for 
confirming HF-related symptoms.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2023.09.082
PMID: 37839463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Dr. Ohno is a 
proctor at Medtronic. Dr. Kamioka is a proctor at Edwards Life Sciences. The 
remaining authors have no competing interest to declare.


177. Health Technol Assess. 2023 Aug;27(14):1-92. doi: 10.3310/NAFW3527.

Cost-effectiveness of therapeutics for COVID-19 patients: a rapid review and 
economic analysis.

Metry A(1), Pandor A(1), Ren S(1), Shippam A(1), Clowes M(1), Dark P(2), 
McMullan R(3), Stevenson M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), The University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK.
(2)The University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(3)School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences, Wellcome Wolfson 
Institute for Experimental Medicine, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, UK.

BACKGROUND: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 is the virus that 
causes coronavirus disease 2019. Over six million deaths worldwide have been 
associated with coronavirus disease 2019.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of treatments used for the treatment 
of coronavirus disease 2019 in hospital or used in the community in patients 
with coronavirus disease 2019 at high risk of hospitalisation.
SETTING: Treatments provided in United Kingdom hospital and community settings.
METHODS: Clinical effectiveness estimates were taken from the coronavirus 
disease-network meta-analyses initiative and the metaEvidence initiative. A 
mathematical model was constructed to explore how the interventions impacted on 
patient health, measured in quality-adjusted life-years gained. The costs 
associated with treatment, including those of hospital care, were also estimated 
and used to form a cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained value which was 
compared with thresholds published by the National Institute for Health and Care 
Excellence. Estimates of cost-effectiveness compared against current standard of 
care were produced in both the hospital and community settings at three 
different levels of efficacy: mean, low and high. Public list prices were used 
for interventions with neither confidential patient access schemes nor 
confidential list prices considered. Results incorporating confidential pricing 
data were provided to the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence 
appraisal committee.
RESULTS: The treatments were estimated to be clinically effective although not 
all reached statistical significance. All treatments in the hospital setting, or 
community, were estimated to plausibly have a cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained value below National Institute for Health and Care Excellence's 
thresholds when compared with standard of care. However, almost all drugs could 
plausibly have cost per quality-adjusted life-years above National Institute for 
Health and Care Excellence's thresholds. However, there is considerable 
uncertainty in the results as the prevalent severe acute respiratory syndrome 
coronavirus 2 variant, vaccination status, history of being infected with severe 
acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 and standard of care have all evolved 
since the pivotal studies were conducted which could have significant impact on 
the efficacy of each drug. For drugs used in high-risk patients in the community 
setting, the proportion of people at high risk who need hospital admission was a 
large driver of the cost per quality-adjusted life-year.
LIMITATIONS: No studies were identified that were conducted in current 
conditions. This may be a large limitation as the severe acute respiratory 
syndrome coronavirus 2 variant changes. No head-to-head studies of interventions 
were identified.
CONCLUSIONS: The results produced could be informative to decision-makers, 
although conclusions regarding the most clinical - and cost-effectiveness of 
each intervention should be tentative due to the evolving nature of the decision 
problem and, in this report, the use of list prices only. Comparisons between 
interventions should also be treated with caution due to potentially large 
heterogeneity between studies.
FUTURE WORK: Research assessing the relative clinical effectiveness of 
interventions within head-to-head studies in current conditions would be 
beneficial. Contemporary information related to the probability of hospital 
admission and death for patients at high risk in the community would improve the 
precision of the estimates generated.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health and Care 
Research (NIHR) Evidence Synthesis programme (NIHR135564) and will be published 
in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 27, No. 14. See the NIHR Journals 
Library website for further project information.

Plain Language Summary: Coronavirus disease 2019 is an infectious disease that 
can cause death and long-term ill-health. Treatments exist that can be provided 
in hospital to reduce the number of deaths from coronavirus disease 2019. 
Treatments also exist which can be provided in the community for people at high 
risk of needing to be admitted to hospital to reduce the number of admissions 
and to reduce the number of deaths from coronavirus disease 2019. However, the 
value for money of these treatments has not been estimated. We took the clinical 
effectiveness of nine treatments from published literature sources and built a 
model that estimated the value for money of six treatments compared with care 
without these treatments. Three treatments were excluded due to confidential 
prices. The results of the model showed that many treatments in a hospital 
setting had estimates of cost-effectiveness that would normally be seen to be 
good value for money using the thresholds published by the National Institute of 
Health and Care Excellence. The same was true for some treatments in a community 
setting. However, it is also possible that these treatments are not good value 
for money. The benefit of the drugs and value for money is highly uncertain as 
studies trying to estimate the gain have been done with (1) previous variants of 
the virus causing coronavirus disease 2019 being widespread, (2) where the 
proportion of people who have had vaccinations or who had previously had 
coronavirus disease 2019 is low and (3) where standard treatment was that when 
coronavirus disease 2019 was first identified, and not the drugs used now. 
Because of these differences, and the unknown price of some interventions, we 
cannot confidently say which (if any) treatments help patients the most, or 
which treatment represents the best value for money. Further research, in 
current conditions, would improve the accuracy of our answers.

DOI: 10.3310/NAFW3527
PMCID: PMC10591210
PMID: 37840452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Eur Heart J Open. 2023 Sep 22;3(5):oead092. doi: 10.1093/ehjopen/oead092. 
eCollection 2023 Sep.

Prognosis prediction in cardiac amyloidosis by cardiac magnetic resonance 
imaging: a systematic review with meta-analysis.

Boretto P(#)(1), Patel NH(#)(2), Patel K(2), Rana M(2), Saglietto A(1), Soni 
M(2), Ahmad M(3), Sin Ying Ho J(3), De Filippo O(1), Providencia RA(4), Hyett 
Bray JJ(4)(5), D'Ascenzo F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular and Thoracic, Città della Salute e della Scienza 
Hospital, University of Turin, Corso Bramante, 88, 10126 Turin, Italy.
(2)Research Department of Medical Education, UCL Medical School, 74 Huntley St, 
WC1E 6DE London, UK.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Royal Free Hospital, Royal Free London NHS 
Foundation Trust, 10 Pond St, NW3 2PS London, UK.
(4)Institute of Health Informatics Research, University College London, 222 
Euston Road, NW1 2DA London, UK.
(5)Institute of Life Sciences-2, Swansea Bay University Health Board and Swansea 
University Medical School, Swansea University, 4 Mumbles Rd, Sketty, SA3 5AU 
Swansea, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Cardiac involvement is the foremost determinant of the clinical progression of 
amyloidosis. The diagnostic role of cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging in 
cardiac amyloidosis has been established, but the prognostic role of various 
right and left CMR tissue characterization and functional parameters, including 
global longitudinal strain (GLS), late gadolinium enhancement (LGE), and 
parametric mapping, is yet to be delineated. We searched EMBASE, PubMed, and 
MEDLINE for studies analysing the prognostic use of CMR imaging in patients with 
light chain amyloidosis or transthyretin amyloidosis cardiac amyloidosis. The 
primary endpoint was all-cause mortality. A random effects model was used to 
calculate a pooled odds ratio using inverse-variance weighting. Nineteen studies 
with 2199 patients [66% males, median age 59.7 years, interquartile range (IQR) 
58-67] were included. Median follow-up was 24 months (IQR 20-32), during which 
40.8% of patients died. Both tissue characterization left heart parameters such 
as elevated extracellular volume [hazard ratio (HR) 3.95, 95% confidence 
interval (CI) 3.01-5.17], extension of left ventricular (LV) LGE (HR 2.69, 95% 
CI 2.07-3.49) elevated native T1 (HR 2.19, 95% CI 1.12-4.28), and functional 
parameters such as reduced LV GLS (HR 1.91, 95% CI 1.52-2.41) and reduced LV 
ejection fraction (EF; HR 1.20, 95% CI 1.17-1.23) were associated with increased 
all-cause mortality. Unlike the presence of right ventricular (RV) LGE (HR 3.40, 
95% CI 0.51-22.54), parameters such as RV GLS (HR 2.08, 95% CI 1.6-2.69), RVEF 
(HR 1.13, 95% CI 1.05-1.22), and tricuspid annular systolic excursion (TAPSE) 
(HR 1.11, 95% CI 1.02-1.21) were also associated with mortality. In this large 
meta-analysis of patients with cardiac amyloidosis, CMR parameters assessing RV 
and LV function and tissue characterization were associated with an increased 
risk of mortality.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1093/ehjopen/oead092
PMCID: PMC10575621
PMID: 37840586

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared.


179. SSM Popul Health. 2023 Oct 3;24:101526. doi: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2023.101526. 
eCollection 2023 Dec.

The average life expectancy of persons with disabilities in China.

Zhan P(1)(2)(3), Li D(1)(4), Zhang X(1)(3), Bai X(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Affairs, Zhejiang University, No.866, Yuhangtang Rd., Xihu 
District, Hangzhou, 310058, China.
(2)Institute for Common Prosperity and Development, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, China.
(3)Center of Social Welfare and Governance, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 
China.
(4)Center for Ageing and Health Study, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(5)Chinese Academy of Disability Data Sciences, Nanjing Normal University of 
Special Education, No.1, Shennong Rd., Qixia District, Nanjing, 210038, China.

The average life expectancy (ALE) of persons with disabilities (PWDs) is much 
shorter than that of the total population in many countries. However, there have 
been relatively few empirical studies on the ALE of PWDs in China. This study 
estimates the ALE and compiles the life tables of PWDs in China using data on 
1,359,812 PWDs registered in the Special Surveys of Basic Services and Needs of 
the Disabled (SSBSND) in K Province in China from 2015 to 2017. The ALE of PWDs 
at age 20 is 45.2 years (95% CI: 44.7-45.8) for men and 48.1 years (95% CI: 
47.6-48.6) for women, which is 15.0 years (men) and 16.5 years (women) lower 
than that of the entire population. The ALE of those with the most severe 
disability is only 33.7 years (95% CI: 32.2-45.1) for men and 37.1 years (95% 
CI: 35.3-38.8) for women. The ALE is relatively short for persons with 
intellectual and physical disabilities; moderate for those with hearing, speech, 
and mental disabilities; and relatively long for those with visual and multiple 
disabilities. Of the PWDs participating in basic old-age insurance (BOI), more 
than 30% do not live long enough to receive their pensions. As such, because a 
large proportion of PWDs die before 60 years old, social policies for PWDs 
should be specially designed.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2023.101526
PMCID: PMC10570714
PMID: 37841217

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


180. Front Public Health. 2023 Sep 29;11:1210374. doi:
10.3389/fpubh.2023.1210374.  eCollection 2023.

Are men dominant? Evidence of differences between physical activity and quality 
of life among older adults in China.

Chen M(1), Chen S(1), Wu Y(1), Song D(1), Xie L(1), Shang Y(1), Chen Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Education, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China.

At present, the aging population is one of China's basic national concerns, and 
physical exercise offers endless potential to cope with it. However, the life 
expectancy of men in China is generally lower than that of women, and the health 
status of older men is more worrying. Could it be that differences in physical 
exercise cause the difference in life expectancy between older men and women? 
This study analyzes the exercise regimen of older men and women and its 
influence on their quality of life. Approximately 200 respondents aged over 60 
were investigated using the SF-36 and exercise questionnaires. Our findings 
revealed the following: (1) The scores of seven dimensions of life quality of 
older men were significantly lower than those of older women (p < 0.001), but 
there was no significant difference only in physiological function (p > 0.05); 
(2) The exercise frequency and persistence of older men were significantly lower 
than those of older women (p < 0.001), but there was no significant difference 
in exercise time (p > 0.05); and (3) All eight indices of quality of life of 
older men were positively correlated with the four indices of exercise (0.250 < 
R < 0.597). Our study offered the following conclusions: (1) The health of older 
men who lack physical exercise is poor. From the perspective of healthy aging, 
older men are a vulnerable group that deserves more attention. (2) Within an 
appropriate range, the more older men participate in physical activity programs, 
the more conducive they are to improved health. (3) This study focuses on 
promoting physical exercise for older adults and suggests organizing them to 
participate in sports activities as an important measure to promote healthy 
aging in China.

Copyright © 2023 Chen, Chen, Wu, Song, Xie, Shang and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1210374
PMCID: PMC10574433
PMID: 37841706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.181. Cureus. 2023 Sep 11;15(9):e45065. doi: 10.7759/cureus.45065. eCollection
2023  Sep.

Emphysematous Pyelonephritis With Scrotal Extension: An Unusual Case 
Presentation.

Singh U(1), Sankhwar SN(1), Kumar M(1).

Author information:
(1)Urology, King George's Medical University, Lucknow, IND.

Emphysematous pyelonephritis (EPN) is a suppurative necrotizing form of renal 
infection with abscess and gas formation in the renal parenchyma and perirenal 
tissue. EPN with scrotal extension is rare; if not recognized and treated 
promptly, the clinical course can be severe and life-threatening. The most 
common causative organism is Escherichia coli and association with diabetes 
mellitus has been found in almost all cases. Prompt control of blood sugar and 
intravenous antibiotics are essential steps in management. Here, we report a 
rare form of extensive EPN extending from the right kidney to the scrotum 
retroperitoneally in a 47-year-old male with uncontrolled blood sugar. The 
patient was managed with a right percutaneous perinephric drain with right 
double J (DJ) stenting. His blood sugar was controlled by subcutaneous insulin. 
The patient was discharged on day 7 in satisfactory general condition with right 
percutaneous drainage and right DJ stent in situ.

Copyright © 2023, Singh et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.45065
PMCID: PMC10567610
PMID: 37842469

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


182. Cureus. 2023 Sep 13;15(9):e45162. doi: 10.7759/cureus.45162. eCollection
2023  Sep.

Zellweger's Syndrome With PEX6 Gene Mutation in Mixteco Neonates Due to Possible 
Founder Effect.

Slaton D(1), Chang A(1), Ahluwalia T(1), Alfaro S(1), Javed B(2), Greer R(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Osteopathic Medicine, Andrew Taylor (AT) Still University, Mesa, 
USA.
(2)Clinical Science Education, Andrew Taylor (AT) Still University, Mesa, USA.
(3)Neonatal Medicine, Marian Regional Medical Center, Santa Maria, USA.

Zellweger spectrum disorder (ZSD) is a group of autosomal recessive peroxisomal 
disorders caused by PEX gene mutations that commonly present with symptoms of 
severe hypotonia, epileptic seizures, failure to thrive, hepatomegaly, 
craniofacial dysmorphisms, and sensorineural hearing loss. This article 
highlights three patients born with ZSD in Central California. All three 
patients were born to Mixteco mothers. Patients were genetically analyzed, which 
revealed mutations that correspond to ZSD. They presented with hypotonia at 
birth, abnormal hepatic panels, and increased fatty acid levels, findings 
consistent with Zellweger syndrome (ZS). However, only two of three patients 
displayed sensorineural hearing loss. Two of the patients failed to survive more 
than one year of age, which reflects the average life expectancy of an infant 
presenting with ZS. Observed and recorded cases of ZS in the Mixteco population 
have been postulated to be related to consanguinity and/or a founder effect. 
Studies have shown that autosomal recessive diseases are more prevalent in 
consanguineous populations. Consanguinity has been denied by patient 1 and is 
unknown for patients 2 and 3. Founder mutations have been implicated in areas 
with high rates of autosomal recessive diseases. All three of our Mixteco 
patients share a distinct lineage as well as a mutation at PEX6, leading us to 
believe that they suffered from an inherited founder mutation. The Mixteco 
population is not studied well enough to come to a definitive conclusion; 
however, the recognition of the relationship between ZS and Mixteco background 
is important, as it allows parents to plan accordingly and increases awareness 
in the community.

Copyright © 2023, Slaton et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.45162
PMCID: PMC10573658
PMID: 37842507

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


183. Heliyon. 2023 Oct 6;9(10):e20737. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e20737. 
eCollection 2023 Oct.

Incidence and predictors of treatment failure among children with HIV on 
first-line antiretroviral therapy in Wolaita zone, Southern Ethiopia: A 
multicenter retrospective cohort study.

Mena ZB(1), Wolka E(1), Dana T(1), Asmare G(1), Mena MB(2), Lerango TL(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Wolaita 
Sodo University, Wolaita Sodo, Ethiopia.
(2)School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Wolaita Sodo 
University, Wolaita Sodo, Ethiopia.
(3)School of Public Health, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Dilla 
University, Dilla, Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: Antiretroviral therapy has improved the life expectancy of 
HIV-positive children. Treatment failure and drug resistance among children with 
HIV remain major public health concerns despite the rise in ART use. A dearth of 
