develop a proof of concept demonstrating that the mechanical properties measured 
from pacemaker extensions and leads extracted posthumously of known duration, 
measured in months while in vivo, can be used to predict the duration of DBS 
leads of unknown lifespan. The goal is to explore the validity of the proposed 
model using multiple regression of mechanical properties.

DOI: 10.3390/bioengineering10101160
PMCID: PMC10604713
PMID: 37892890

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


325. Medicina (Kaunas). 2023 Sep 22;59(10):1700. doi: 10.3390/medicina59101700.

Characteristics of Age Classification into Five-Year Intervals to Explain 
Sarcopenia and Immune Cells in Older Adults.

Heo SJ(1), Jee YS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sports Education, Kongju National University, Gongju-si 
32588, Republic of Korea.
(2)Research Institute of Sports and Industry Science, Hanseo University, 
Seosan-si 31962, Republic of Korea.

Background and Objectives: This study focused on investigating sarcopenic 
factors and immune cells in older adulthood. To achieve this, the variables 
related to sarcopenia and immune cells in people living in the same community 
were analyzed. Materials and Methods: A total of 433 elderly individuals aged 61 
to 85 years were randomly categorized as follows in 5-year intervals: 68 in the 
youngest-old group (aged 61-65), 168 in the young-old group (aged 66-70), 127 in 
the middle-old group (aged 71-75), 46 in the old-old group (aged 76-80), and 19 
in the oldest-old group (aged 81-85). Results: With the progression of age, calf 
circumference (-8.4 to -11.05%; p = 0.001) and grip strength (-9.32 to -21.01%; 
p = 0.001) exhibited a noticeable reduction with each successive 5-year age 
bracket. Conversely, the capability to complete the five-time chair stand 
demonstrated a clear incline (32.49 to 56.81%; p = 0.001), starting from the 
middle-aged group. As for appendicular skeletal muscle mass, there was an 
evident tendency for it to decrease (-7.08 to -26.62%; p = 0.001) with 
increasing age. A gradual decline in natural killer cells became apparent within 
the old-old and oldest-old groups (-9.28 to -26.27%; p = 0.001). The results of 
the post hoc test revealed that CD3 T cells showcased their peak levels in both 
the youngest-old and young-old groups. This was followed by the middle-old and 
old-old groups, with slightly lower levels. This pattern was similarly observed 
in CD4 T cells, CD8 T cells, and CD19 B cells. Conclusions: This study 
reaffirmed that sarcopenia and immune cell function decline with each successive 
5-year increase in age. Considering these findings, the importance of 
implementing programs aimed at ensuring a high-quality extension of life for the 
elderly is strongly underscored.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina59101700
PMCID: PMC10607932
PMID: 37893417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


326. Medicina (Kaunas). 2023 Sep 24;59(10):1707. doi: 10.3390/medicina59101707.

Stroke vs. Preeclampsia: Dangerous Liaisons of Hypertension and Pregnancy.

Lackovic M(1), Nikolic D(2)(3), Jankovic M(2)(4), Rovcanin M(5), Mihajlovic 
S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)University Hospital "Dragisa Misovic", Heroja Milana Tepica 1, 11000 
Belgrade, Serbia.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia.
(3)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University Children's 
Hospital, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia.
(4)Neurology Clinic, University Clinical Center of Serbia, 11000 Belgrade, 
Serbia.
(5)Clinic for Gynecology and Obstetrics "Narodni Front", 11000 Belgrade, Serbia.

Stroke during pregnancy and preeclampsia are two distinct but interrelated 
medical conditions, sharing a common denominator-blood control failure. Along 
with cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, dyslipidemia, and hypercoagulability, 
hypertension is undoubtedly a major risk factor associated with stroke. Even 
though men have higher age-specific stroke rates, women are facing higher 
life-long stroke risk, primarily due to longer life expectancy. Sex hormones, 
especially estrogen and testosterone, seem to play a key link in the chain of 
blood pressure control differences between the genders. Women affected with 
stroke are more susceptible to experience some atypical stroke manifestations, 
which might eventually lead to delayed diagnosis establishment, and result in 
higher morbidity and mortality rates in the population of women. Preeclampsia is 
a part of hypertensive disorder of pregnancy spectrum, and it is common 
knowledge that women with a positive history of preeclampsia are at increased 
stroke risk during their lifetime. Preeclampsia and stroke display similar 
pathophysiological patterns, including hypertension, endothelial dysfunction, 
dyslipidemia, hypercoagulability, and cerebral vasomotor reactivity 
abnormalities. High-risk pregnancies carrying the burden of hypertensive 
disorder of pregnancy have up to a six-fold higher chance of suffering from 
stroke. Resemblance shared between placental and cerebral vascular changes, 
adaptations, and sophisticated auto-regulatory mechanisms are not merely 
coincidental, but they reflect distinctive and complex cardiovascular 
performances occurring in the maternal circulatory system during pregnancy. 
Placental and cerebral malperfusion appears to be in the midline of both of 
these conditions; placental malperfusion eventually leads to preeclampsia, and 
cerebral to stoke. Suboptimal performances of the cardiovascular system are 
proposed as a primary cause of uteroplacental malperfusion. Placental 
dysfunction is therefore designated as a secondary condition, initiated by the 
primary disturbances of the cardiovascular system, rather than an immunological 
disorder associated with abnormal trophoblast invasion. In most cases, with 
properly and timely applied measures of prevention, stroke is predictable, and 
preeclampsia is a controllable condition. Understanding the differences between 
preeclampsia and stroke in pregnancy is vital for healthcare providers to 
enhance their clinical decision-making strategies, improve patient care, and 
promote positive maternal and pregnancy outcomes. Management approaches for 
preeclampsia and stroke require a multidisciplinary approach involving 
obstetricians, neurologists, and other healthcare professionals.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina59101707
PMCID: PMC10608338
PMID: 37893425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


327. Medicina (Kaunas). 2023 Sep 29;59(10):1747. doi: 10.3390/medicina59101747.

Particularities of Urinary Tract Infections in Diabetic Patients: A Concise 
Review.

Confederat LG(1), Condurache MI(1), Alexa RE(2), Dragostin OM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, "Grigore T. Popa" University of Medicine 
and Pharmacy of Iasi, 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(2)"Sf√¢ntul Spiridon" County Emergency Clinical Hospital, 700111 Iasi, Romania.
(3)Research Centre in the Medical-Pharmaceutical Field, Faculty of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, "Dunarea de Jos" University of Galati, 800008 Galati, Romania.

Diabetes mellitus is a chronic disease that, untreated or poorly controlled, can 
lead to serious complications, reducing life expectancy and quality. Diabetic 
patients are more likely to develop infections, including many common 
infections, but also pathognomonic ones such as emphysematous pyelonephritis, 
malignant otitis externa, mucormycosis and Fournier's gangrene. Considering the 
fact that diabetic patients experience more frequently urinary tract infections 
(UTIs) with a worse prognosis than non-diabetic people, we conducted a review 
study based on data in the literature, following the particularities of UTIs in 
this group of patients, the risk factors, the mechanisms involved and the 
challenges in their management. The findings highlight that UTI in diabetic 
patients have some particularities, including a more frequent evolution to 
bacteremia, increased hospitalizations, and elevated rates of recurrence and 
mortality than non-diabetic patients. The possible risk factors identified seem 
to be female gender, pregnancy, older age, UTI in the previous six months, poor 
glycemic control and duration of diabetes. The mechanisms involved are related 
to glucosuria and bladder dysfunction, factors related to bacterial strains and 
host response. The bacterial strains involved in UTIs in diabetic patients and 
their antibiotic susceptibility profile are, with some exceptions, similar to 
those in non-diabetic people; however, the antimicrobial agents should be 
carefully chosen and the duration of the treatment should be as those required 
for a complicated UTI. The data related to the risk of developing UTIs in 
patients treated with SGLT-2 inhibitors, a new class of oral hypoglycaemic 
agents with cardiovascular and renal benefits, are controversial; overall, it 
was evidenced that UTIs occurred at the initiation of the treatment, recurrent 
infection was uncommon and the majority of UTIs responded to treatment with 
standard antibiotics. Moreover, interruption or discontinuation of SGLT-2 
inhibitor as a result of UTI was rare and SGLT-2 inhibitors did not increase the 
risk of severe infections such as urosepsis and pyelonephritis.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina59101747
PMCID: PMC10608443
PMID: 37893465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.


328. Foods. 2023 Oct 20;12(20):3854. doi: 10.3390/foods12203854.

Chitooligosaccharide and Its Derivatives: Potential Candidates as Food Additives 
and Bioactive Components.

Mittal A(1), Singh A(1), Buatong J(1), Saetang J(1), Benjakul S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)International Center of Excellence in Seafood Science and Innovation, Faculty 
of Agro-Industry, Prince of Songkla University, Hat Yai 90110, Songkhla, 
Thailand.
(2)Department of Food and Nutrition, Kyung Hee University, Seoul 02447, Republic 
of Korea.

Chitooligosaccharide (CHOS), a depolymerized chitosan, can be prepared via 
physical, chemical, and enzymatic hydrolysis, or a combination of these 
techniques. The superior properties of CHOS have attracted attention as 
alternative additives or bioactive compounds for various food and biomedical 
applications. To increase the bioactivities of a CHOS, its derivatives have been 
prepared via different methods and were characterized using various analytical 
methods including FTIR and NMR spectroscopy. CHOS derivatives such as 
carboxylated CHOS, quaternized CHOS, and others showed their potential as potent 
anti-inflammatory, anti-obesity, neuroprotective, and anti-cancer agents, which 
could further be used for human health benefits. Moreover, enhanced 
antibacterial and antioxidant bioactivities, especially for a CHOS-polyphenol 
conjugate, could play a profound role in shelf-life extension and the safety 
assurance of perishable foods via the inhibition of spoilage microorganisms and 
pathogens and lipid oxidation. Also, the effectiveness of CHOS derivatives for 
shelf-life extension can be augmented when used in combination with other 
preservative technologies. Therefore, this review provides an overview of the 
production of a CHOS and its derivatives, as well as their potential 
applications in food as either additives or nutraceuticals. Furthermore, it 
revisits recent advancements in translational research and in vivo studies on 
CHOS and its derivatives in the medical-related field.

DOI: 10.3390/foods12203854
PMCID: PMC10606384
PMID: 37893747

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


329. Microorganisms. 2023 Sep 28;11(10):2426. doi:
10.3390/microorganisms11102426.

HIV and an Ageing Population-What Are the Medical, Psychosocial, and Palliative 
Care Challenges in Healthcare Provisions.

Ahmed MH(1)(2), Ahmed F(3), Abu-Median AB(4), Panourgia M(2), Owles H(2), 
Ochieng B(4), Ahamed H(3), Wale J(5), Dietsch B(5), Mital D(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and HIV Metabolic Clinic, Milton Keynes University 
Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Eaglestone, Milton Keynes MK6 5LD, UK.
(2)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Milton Keynes University Hospital NHS 
Foundation Trust, Eaglestone, Milton Keynes MK6 5LD, UK.
(3)Tele-Geriatric Research Fellowship, Geriatric Division, Family Medicine 
Department, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI 48824, USA.
(4)Leicester School of Allied Health Sciences, Faculty of Health and Life 
Sciences, De Montfort University, Leicester LE1 9BH, UK.
(5)Department of Palliative Medicine, Milton Keynes University Hospital NHS 
Foundation Trust, Eaglestone, Milton Keynes MK6 5LD, UK.
(6)Department of HIV and Blood Borne Virus, Milton Keynes University Hospital 
NHS Foundation Trust, Eaglestone, Milton Keynes MK6 5LD, UK.

The continuing increase in patient numbers and improvement in healthcare 
provisions of HIV services in the UK, alongside the effectiveness of combined 
antiretroviral therapy (cART), has resulted in increasing numbers of the ageing 
population among people living with HIV (PLWH). It is expected that 
geriatricians will need to deal with many older people living with HIV (OPLWH) 
as life expectancy increases. Therefore, geriatric syndromes in OPLWH will be 
similar to the normal population, such as falls, cognitive decline, frailty, 
dementia, hypertension, diabetes and polypharmacy. The increase in the long-term 
use of cART, diabetes, dyslipidaemia and hypertension may lead to high 
prevalence of cardiovascular disease (CVD). The treatment of such conditions may 
lead to polypharmacy and may increase the risk of cART drug-drug interactions. 
In addition, the risk of developing infection and cancer is high. OPLWH may 
develop an early onset of low bone mineral density (BMD), osteoporosis and 
fractures. In this review, we have also provided potential psychosocial aspects 
of an ageing population with HIV, addressing issues such as depression, stigma, 
isolation and the need for comprehensive medical and psychosocial care through 
an interdisciplinary team in a hospital or community setting. OPLWH have a 
relatively high burden of physical, psychological, and spiritual needs and 
social difficulties, which require palliative care. The holistic type of 
palliative care that will improve physical, emotional and psychological 
wellbeing is discussed in this review.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms11102426
PMCID: PMC10608969
PMID: 37894084

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


330. Cancers (Basel). 2023 Oct 11;15(20):4940. doi: 10.3390/cancers15204940.

Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase Inhibitor-Induced Neutropenia: A Systematic Review.

Moinard-Butot F(1), Nannini S(1), Fischbach C(1), Abdallahoui S(1), Demarchi 
M(1), Petit T(1), Bender L(1), Schott R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Institut de Canc√©rologie Strasbourg Europe, 
17 Rue Albert Calmette, 67033 Strasbourg, France.

Lung cancers with ALK rearrangement represent less than 5% of all lung cancers. 
ALK inhibitors are currently used to treat first-line metastatic non-small cell 
lung cancer with ALK rearrangement. Compared to chemotherapy, ALK inhibitors 
have improved progression-free survival, overall survival, and quality of life 
for patients. The results of several phase 3 studies with a follow-up of over 6 
years suggest that the life expectancy of these patients treated with targeted 
therapies is significantly higher than 5 years and could approach 10 years. 
Nevertheless, these treatments induce haematological toxicities, including 
neutropenia. Few data are available on neutropenia induced by ALK inhibitors and 
on the pathophysiological mechanism and therapeutic adaptations necessary to 
continue the treatment. Given the high efficacy of these treatments, managing 
side effects to avoid treatment interruptions is essential. Here, we have 
reviewed the data from published clinical studies and case reports to provide an 
overview of neutropenia induced by ALK inhibitors.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers15204940
PMCID: PMC10605921
PMID: 37894307

Conflict of interest statement: R.S. declared Roche for an advisory role, 
Pfizer, and Takeda for travel and accommodation.


331. Cancers (Basel). 2023 Oct 18;15(20):5038. doi: 10.3390/cancers15205038.

CELF2 Sustains a Proliferating/OLIG2+ Glioblastoma Cell Phenotype via the 
Epigenetic Repression of SOX3.

Turchi L(1)(2), Sakakini N(1), Saviane G(1), Polo B(1), Saurty-Seerunghen MS(3), 
Gabut M(4)(5), Gouillou CA(6), Guerlais V(7), Pasquier C(7), Vignais ML(8), 
Almairac F(1)(9), Chneiweiss H(3), Junier MP(3), Burel-Vandenbos F(1)(10), 
Virolle T(1).

Author information:
(1)CNRS, INSERM, Institut de Biologie Valrose, Team INSERM "Cancer Stem Cell 
Plasticity and Functional Intra-tumor Heterogeneity", Universit√© C√¥te D'Azur, 
06107 Nice, France.
(2)DRCI, CHU de Nice, 06107 Nice, France.
(3)CNRS UMR8246, INSERM U1130, Neuroscience Paris Seine-IBPS Laboratory, Team 
Glial Plasticity and NeuroOncology, Sorbonne Universit√©, 75252 Paris, France.
(4)Stemness in Gliomas Laboratory, Cancer Initiation and Tumoral Cell Identity 
(CITI) Department, INSERM 1052, CNRS 5286, Centre L√©on B√©rard, 69008 Lyon, 
France.
(5)Cancer Research Center of Lyon 1, Universit√© Claude Bernard Lyon 1, 69100 
Villeurbanne, France.
(6)UMR 1253, iBrain, Inserm, Universit√© de Tours, 37000 Tours, France.
(7)CNRS, I3S, Universit√© C√¥te d'Azur, 06560 Valbonne, France.
(8)CNRS, INSERM, Institut de G√©nomique Fonctionnelle, IGF, Universit√© de 
Montpellier, 34090 Montpellier, France.
(9)Service de Neurochirurgie, H√¥pital Pasteur, CHU de Nice, 06107 Nice, France.
(10)Service d'Anatomopathologie, H√¥pital Pasteur, CHU de Nice, 06107 Nice, 
France.

Glioblastomas (GBs) are incurable brain tumors. The persistence of aggressive 
stem-like tumor cells after cytotoxic treatments compromises therapeutic 
efficacy, leading to GBM recurrence. Forcing the GBM cells to irreversibly 
abandon their aggressive stem-like phenotype may offer an alternative to 
conventional cytotoxic treatments. Here, we show that the RNA binding protein 
CELF2 is strongly expressed in mitotic and OLIG2-positive GBM cells, while it is 
downregulated in differentiated and non-mitotic cells by miR-199a-3p, 
exemplifying GBM intra-tumor heterogeneity. Using patient-derived cells and 
human GBM samples, we demonstrate that CELF2 plays a key role in maintaining the 
proliferative/OLIG2 cell phenotype with clonal and tumorigenic properties. 
Indeed, we show that CELF2 deficiency in patient-derived GSCs drastically 
reduced tumor growth in the brains of nude mice. We further show that CELF2 
promotes TRIM28 and G9a expression, which drive a H3K9me3 epigenetic profile 
responsible for the silencing of the SOX3 gene. Thus, CELF2, which is positively 
correlated with OLIG2 and Ki67 expression in human GBM samples, is inversely 
correlated with SOX3 and miR-199a-3p. Accordingly, the invalidation of SOX3 in 
CELF2-deficient patient-derived cells rescued proliferation and OLIG2 
expression. Finally, patients expressing SOX3 above the median level of 
expression tend to have a longer life expectancy. CELF2 is therefore a crucial 
target for the malignant potential of GBM and warrants attention when developing 
novel anticancer strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers15205038
PMCID: PMC10605641
PMID: 37894405

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


332. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Oct 12;24(20):15101. doi: 10.3390/ijms242015101.

Fully Automated Production of [(68)Ga]GaFAPI-46 with Gallium-68 from Cyclotron 
Using Liquid Targets.

Fonseca AI(1), Alves VH(1)(2), Hrynchak I(1), Alves F(3)(4), Abrunhosa AJ(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)ICNAS Pharma, University of Coimbra, 3004-531 Coimbra, Portugal.
(2)Fluidomica, Lda., 3060-197 Cantanhede, Portugal.
(3)CIBIT/ICNAS, Institute for Nuclear Sciences Applied to Health, University of 
Coimbra, 3004-531 Coimbra, Portugal.
(4)Instituto Polit√©cnico de Coimbra, ESTeSC-Coimbra Health School, 3045-093 
Coimbra, Portugal.

68Ga-based radiopharmaceuticals are routinely used for PET imaging of multiple 
types of tumors. Gallium-68 is commonly obtained from 68Ge/68Ga generators, 
which are limited in the quantity of activity produced. Alternatively, 
gallium-68 can easily be produced on a cyclotron using liquid targets. In this 
study, we optimized the GMP production of [68Ga]GaFAPI-46 using gallium-68 
produced via a standard medical cyclotron using liquid targets. Starting from 
the published synthesis and quality control procedures described for other 
68Ga-based radiopharmaceuticals, we have validated the synthesis process and the 
analytical methods to test the quality parameters of the final product to be 
used for routine clinical studies. [68Ga]GaFAPI-46 was successfully produced 
with high radiochemical purity and yield using an IBA Synthera¬Æ Extension 
module. Gallium chloride was produced on a medical cyclotron using a liquid 
target with activity of 4.31 ¬± 0.36 GBq at the end of purification (EOP). 
Analytical methods were established and validated, meeting Ph. Eur. standards. 
Full GMP production was also validated in three consecutive batches, producing 
2.50 ¬± 0.46 GBq of [68Ga]GaFAPI-46 at the end of synthesis (EOS), with 98.94 ¬± 
0.72% radiochemical purity measured via radio-HPLC. Quality was maintained for 
up to 3 h after the EOS. Production of [68Ga]GaFAPI-46 was performed and 
validated using a standard medical cyclotron with liquid targets. The quality 
control parameters (e.g., sterility, purity, and residual solvents) conformed to 
Ph. Eur. and a shelf life of 3 h was established. The activity of 
[68Ga]GaFAPI-46 produced was substantially higher than the one obtained with 
generators, enabling a better response to the clinical need for this 
radiopharmaceutical.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms242015101
PMCID: PMC10606668
PMID: 37894781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


333. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Oct 15;24(20):15199. doi: 10.3390/ijms242015199.

A Narrative Review: The Effect and Importance of Carotenoids on Aging and 
Aging-Related Diseases.

Bakac ER(1), Percin E(1), Gunes-Bayir A(1), Dadak A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Faculty of Health Sciences, Bezmialem 
Vakif University, 34065 Istanbul, Turkey.
(2)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Clinical Pharmacology, University 
of Veterinary Medicine Vienna, 1210 Vienna, Austria.

Aging is generally defined as a time-dependent functional decline that affects 
most living organisms. The positive increase in life expectancy has brought 
along aging-related diseases. Oxidative stress caused by the imbalance between 
pro-oxidants and antioxidants can be given as one of the causes of aging. At the 
same time, the increase in oxidative stress and reactive oxygen species (ROS) is 
main reason for the increase in aging-related diseases such as cardiovascular, 
neurodegenerative, liver, skin, and eye diseases and diabetes. Carotenoids, a 
natural compound, can be used to change the course of aging and aging-related 
diseases, thanks to their highly effective oxygen-quenching and ROS-scavenging 
properties. Therefore, in this narrative review, conducted using the PubMed, 
ScienceDirect, and Google Scholar databases and complying with the Scale for the 
Assessment of Narrative Review Articles (SANRA) guidelines, the effects of 
carotenoids on aging and aging-related diseases were analyzed. Carotenoids are 
fat-soluble, highly unsaturated pigments that occur naturally in plants, fungi, 
algae, and photosynthetic bacteria. A large number of works have been conducted 
on carotenoids in relation to aging and aging-related diseases. Animal and human 
studies have found that carotenoids can significantly reduce obesity and fatty 
liver, lower blood sugar, and improve liver fibrosis in cirrhosis, as well as 
reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and erythema formation, while also 
lowering glycated hemoglobin and fasting plasma glucose levels. Carotenoid 
supplementation may be effective in preventing and delaying aging and 
aging-related diseases, preventing and treating eye fatigue and dry eye disease, 
and improving macular function. These pigments can be used to stop, delay, or 
treat aging-related diseases due to their powerful antioxidant, restorative, 
anti-proliferative, anti-inflammatory, and anti-aging properties. As an 
increasingly aging population emerges globally, this review could provide an 
important prospective contribution to public health.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms242015199
PMCID: PMC10607816
PMID: 37894880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


334. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Oct 17;24(20):15249. doi: 10.3390/ijms242015249.

Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome: Signaling & Molecular Perspectives, and the 
Road Ahead.

Datta S(1), Cao W(1), Skillman M(1), Wu M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacological and Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of 
Pharmacy, University of Houston, Houston, TX 77204, USA.

Hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) is a lethal congenital heart disease 
(CHD) affecting 8-25 per 100,000 neonates globally. Clinical interventions, 
primarily surgical, have improved the life expectancy of the affected subjects 
substantially over the years. However, the etiological basis of HLHS remains 
fundamentally unclear to this day. Based upon the existing paradigm of studies, 
HLHS exhibits a multifactorial mode of etiology mediated by a complicated course 
of genetic and signaling cascade. This review presents a detailed outline of the 
HLHS phenotype, the prenatal and postnatal risks, and the signaling and 
molecular mechanisms driving HLHS pathogenesis. The review discusses the 
potential limitations and future perspectives of studies that can be undertaken 
to address the existing scientific gap. Mechanistic studies to explain HLHS 
etiology will potentially elucidate novel druggable targets and empower the 
development of therapeutic regimens against HLHS in the future.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms242015249
PMCID: PMC10607600
PMID: 37894928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


335. Life (Basel). 2023 Oct 15;13(10):2063. doi: 10.3390/life13102063.

Discussion on the Differences in Aroma Components in Different Fragrant Rice 
Varieties during Storage.

Lee JC(1), Yang KM(2), Wu CS(3), Chu LP(4), Jiang WM(5), Chen HC(5).

Author information:
(1)Hualien District Agricultural Research and Extension Station, Ministry of 
Agriculture, Hualien 973, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Food Science, National Quemoy University, Kinmen 892, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung 404, 
Taiwan.
(4)Department of Orthopedics, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung 404, 
Taiwan.
(5)Department of Cosmeceutics, China Medical University, Taichung 406, Taiwan.

Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is an important food crop in Taiwan, among which fragrant 
rice is highly regarded for its special aroma when cooked. During the storage of 
fragrant rice, the aroma components will change, which will affect the aroma 
quality of fragrant rice. Therefore, headspace solid-phase microextraction 
(HS-SPME) was used in this study, combined with gas chromatography and gas 
chromatography-mass spectrometry, to analyze the difference in the aroma 
components of Taikeng No. 4 (TK4), Tainung No. 71 (TN71), Kaohsiung No. 147 
(KH147), and Taichung No. 194 (TC194) fragrant rice. A total of 28 aroma 
components were identified in the four varieties of fragrant rice, and the main 
components were all Nonanal. Among them, TK4 contains a very high content of 
hydrocarbons, including Tridecane and Dodecane; TN71, KH147, and TC194 contain 
mainly aldehydes such as Nonanal and Hexanal. During different storage times, 
the contents of alcohols, monoterpenes, aromatic aldehydes, and furans increased 
with storage time, while the content of aliphatic aldehydes decreased with 
storage time. After storage, the fragrant rice samples showed a tendency for the 
total volatile component content to decrease, with the most pronounced reduction 
observed in Nonanal content.

DOI: 10.3390/life13102063
PMCID: PMC10608429
PMID: 37895444

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


336. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2023 Oct 12;16(10):1451. doi: 10.3390/ph16101451.

Spices as Sustainable Food Preservatives: A Comprehensive Review of Their 
Antimicrobial Potential.

Sulieman AME(1), Abdallah EM(2), Alanazi NA(1), Ed-Dra A(3), Jamal A(1), Idriss 
H(4), Alshammari AS(5), Shommo SAM(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, College of Science, University of Ha'il, Ha'il 55473, 
Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Science Laboratories, College of Science and Arts, Qassim 
University, Ar Rass 51921, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Laboratory of Engineering and Applied Technologies, Higher School of 
Technology, M'ghila Campus, Sultan Moulay Slimane University, Beni Mellal 23000, 
Morocco.
(4)Department of Physics, College of Science, Imam Mohammad Ibn Saud Islamic 
University (IMSIU), Riyadh 11623, Saudi Arabia.
(5)National Center for Vegetation Cover Development and Combating 
Desertification, Riyadh 11195, Saudi Arabia.
(6)College of Education, University of Ha'il, Ha'il 55473, Saudi Arabia.

Throughout history, spices have been employed for their pharmaceutical 
attributes and as a culinary enhancement. The food industry widely employs 
artificial preservatives to retard the deterioration induced by microbial 
proliferation, enzymatic processes, and oxidative reactions. Nevertheless, the 
utilization of these synthetic preservatives in food products has given rise to 
significant apprehension among consumers, primarily stemming from the potential 
health risks that they pose. These risks encompass a spectrum of adverse 
effects, including but not limited to gastrointestinal disorders, the disruption 
of gut microbiota, allergic reactions, respiratory complications, and concerns 
regarding their carcinogenic properties. Consequently, consumers are displaying 
an increasing reluctance to purchase preserved food items that contain such 
additives. Spices, known for their antimicrobial value, are investigated for 
their potential as food preservatives. The review assesses 25 spice types for 
their inherent antimicrobial properties and their applicability in inhibiting 
various foodborne microorganisms and suggests further future investigations 
regarding their use as possible natural food preservatives that could offer 
safer, more sustainable methods for extending shelf life. Future research should 
delve deeper into the use of natural antimicrobials, such as spices, to not only 
replace synthetic preservatives but also optimize their application in food 
safety and shelf-life extension. Moreover, there is a need for continuous 
innovation in encapsulation technologies for antimicrobial agents. Developing 
cost-effective and efficient methods, along with scaling up production 
processes, will be crucial to competing with traditional antimicrobial options 
in terms of both efficacy and affordability.

DOI: 10.3390/ph16101451
PMCID: PMC10610427
PMID: 37895922

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


337. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2023 Oct 20;16(10):1498. doi: 10.3390/ph16101498.

Thiadiazolidinone (TDZD) Analogs Inhibit Aggregation-Mediated Pathology in 
Diverse Neurodegeneration Models, and Extend C. elegans Life- and Healthspan.

Kakraba S(1), Ayyadevara S(1)(2), Mainali N(1), Balasubramaniam M(1), Bowroju 
S(3), Penthala NR(3), Atluri R(1), Barger SW(1)(2), Griffin ST(1)(2), Crooks 
PA(3), Shmookler Reis RJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little 
Rock, AR 72205, USA.
(2)Central Arkansas Veterans Healthcare Service, Little Rock, AR 72205, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Arkansas for Medical 
Sciences, Little Rock, AR 72205, USA.

Chronic, low-grade inflammation has been implicated in aging and age-dependent 
conditions, including Alzheimer's disease, cardiomyopathy, and cancer. One of 
the age-associated processes underlying chronic inflammation is protein 
aggregation, which is implicated in neuroinflammation and a broad spectrum of 
neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's, Huntington's, and Parkinson's 
diseases. We screened a panel of bioactive thiadiazolidinones (TDZDs) from our 
in-house library for rescue of protein aggregation in human-cell and C. elegans 
models of neurodegeneration. Among the tested TDZD analogs, PNR886 and PNR962 
were most effective, significantly reducing both the number and intensity of 
Alzheimer-like tau and amyloid aggregates in human cell-culture models of 
pathogenic aggregation. A C. elegans strain expressing human AŒ≤1-42 in muscle, 
leading to AD-like amyloidopathy, developed fewer and smaller aggregates after 
PNR886 or PNR962 treatment. Moreover, age-progressive paralysis was reduced 90% 
by PNR886 and 75% by PNR962, and "healthspan" (the median duration of 
spontaneous motility) was extended 29% and 62%, respectively. These TDZD analogs 
also extended wild-type C. elegans lifespan by 15-30% (p < 0.001), placing them 
among the most effective life-extension drugs. Because the lead drug in this 
family, TDZD-8, inhibits GSK3Œ≤, we used molecular-dynamic tools to assess 
whether these analogs may also target GSK3Œ≤. In silico modeling predicted that 
PNR886 or PNR962 would bind to the same allosteric pocket of inactive GSK3Œ≤ as 
TDZD-8, employing the same pharmacophore but attaching with greater avidity. 
PNR886 and PNR962 are thus compelling candidate drugs for treatment of tau- and 
amyloid-associated neurodegenerative diseases such as AD, potentially also 
reducing all-cause mortality.

DOI: 10.3390/ph16101498
PMCID: PMC10610358
PMID: 37895969

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no financial conflict of 
interest apart from intellectual property rights for drugs described herein. 
RJSR, PAC, SA, SK, SB, NRP, and others hold a patent on analogues PNR886 and 
PNR962. The University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences (UAMS) and the U.S. 
Government (Dept. of Veteran Affairs) jointly submitted patent claims on 
compounds PNR502, PNR886, and PNR962, inter alia, for protection against 
Alzheimer‚Äôs and other neurodegenerative diseases (U.S. PCT filings 
16/483366-2020, 63/163572A1-2021, 63/288998-2021, and 17/ 79638-2023). Potential 
royalty streams to RJSR, PAC, SA, SK, SB, and NRP may occur consistent with the 
policies of these institutions. The funders had no role in the design of the 
study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of 
the manuscript; or in the decision to publish the results.


338. Polymers (Basel). 2023 Oct 11;15(20):4054. doi: 10.3390/polym15204054.

A Poly-D-lysine-Coated Coralline Matrix Promotes Hippocampal Neural Precursor 
Cells' Differentiation into GFAP-Positive Astrocytes.

Hendler RM(1), Weiss OE(1), Morad T(1), Sion G(1)(2), Kirby M(1)(3), Dubinsky 
Z(4), Barbora A(5), Minnes R(5), Baranes D(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Ariel University, Ariel 4070000, Israel.
(2)Department of Science, The David Yellin Academic College of Education, 
Jerusalem 9103501, Israel.
(3)Adelson School of Medicine, Ariel University, Ariel 4070000, Israel.
(4)The Mina & Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 
Ramat-Gan 5290002, Israel.
(5)Department of Physics, Ariel University, Ariel 4070000, Israel.

A major goal of regenerative medicine of the central nervous system is to 
accelerate the regeneration of nerve tissue, where astrocytes, despite their 
positive and negative roles, play a critical role. Thus, scaffolds capable of 
producing astrocytes from neural precursor cells (NPCs) are most desirable. Our 
study shows that NPCs are converted into reactive astrocytes upon cultivation on 
coralline-derived calcium carbonate coated with poly-D-lysine (PDL-CS). As shown 
via nuclei staining, the adhesion of neurospheres containing hundreds of 
hippocampal neural cells to PDL-CS resulted in disaggregation of the cell 
cluster as well as the radial migration of dozens of cells away from the 
neurosphere core. Migrating cells per neurosphere averaged 100 on PDL-CS, 
significantly higher than on uncoated CS (28), PDL-coated glass (65), or 
uncoated glass (20). After 3 days of culture on PDL-CS, cell migration plateaued 
and remained stable for four more days. In addition, NPCs expressing nestin 
underwent continuous morphological changes from round to spiky, extending and 
elongating their processes, resembling activated astrocytes. The extension of 
the process increased continuously during the maturation of the culture and 
doubled after 7 days compared to day 1, whereas bifurcation increased by twofold 
during the first 3 days before plateauing. In addition, nestin positive cells' 
shape, measured through the opposite circularity level correlation, decreased 
approximately twofold after three days, indicating spiky transformation. 
Moreover, nestin-positive cells co-expressing GFAP increased by 2.2 from day 1 
to 7, reaching 40% of the NPC population on day 7. In this way, PDL-CS promotes 
NPC differentiation into reactive astrocytes, which could accelerate the repair 
of neural tissue.

DOI: 10.3390/polym15204054
PMCID: PMC10610048
PMID: 37896298

Conflict of interest statement: The sponsors had no role in the design, 
execution, interpretation, or writing of the study.


339. Polymers (Basel). 2023 Oct 16;15(20):4103. doi: 10.3390/polym15204103.

Smart Packaging Based on Polylactic Acid: The Effects of Antibacterial and 
Antioxidant Agents from Natural Extracts on Physical-Mechanical Properties, 
Colony Reduction, Perishable Food Shelf Life, and Future Prospective.

Nasution H(1), Harahap H(1), Julianti E(2), Safitri A(1), Jaafar M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Universitas 
Sumatera Utara, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Medan 20155, Sumatera Utara, 
Indonesia.
(2)Department of Food and Science Technology, Faculty of Agriculture, 
Universitas Sumatera Utara, Padang Bulan, Kec. Medan Baru, Medan 20155, Sumatera 
Utara, Indonesia.
(3)School of Materials & Mineral Resources Engineering, Universiti Sains 
Malaysia, Nibong Tebal 14300, Pulau Pinang, Malaysia.

Changes in consumer lifestyles have raised awareness of a variety of food 
options and packaging technologies. Active and smart packaging is an innovative 
technology that serves to enhance the safety and quality of food products like 
fruit, vegetables, fish, and meat. Smart packaging, as a subset of this 
technology, entails the integration of additives into packaging materials, 
thereby facilitating the preservation or extension of product quality and shelf 
life. This technological approach stimulates a heightened demand for safer food 
products with a prolonged shelf life. Active packaging predominantly relies on 
the utilization of natural active substances. Therefore, the combination of 
active substances has a significant impact on the characteristics of active 
packaging, particularly on polymeric blends like polylactic acid (PLA) as a 
matrix. Therefore, this review will summarize how the addition of natural active 
agents influences the performance of smart packaging through systematic 
analysis, providing new insights into the types of active agents on 
physical-mechanical properties, colony reduction, and its application in foods. 
Through their integration, the market for active and smart packaging systems is 
expected to have a bright future.

DOI: 10.3390/polym15204103
PMCID: PMC10611019
PMID: 37896347

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


340. Sensors (Basel). 2023 Oct 17;23(20):8524. doi: 10.3390/s23208524.

Extending the Shelf-Life of Immunoassay-Based Microfluidic Chips through 
Freeze-Drying Sublimation Techniques.

Moon S(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Convergence Engineering, Gyeongsang National 
University, Changwon 51391, Gyeongsangnam-do, Republic of Korea.
(2)Cybernetics Imaging Systems Co., Ltd., Changwon 51391, Gyeongsangnam-do, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and 
Technology (UNIST), Ulsan 44919, Republic of Korea.

Point-of-care testing (POCT) platforms utilizing immunoassay-based microfluidic 
chips offer a robust and specific method for detecting target antibodies, 
demonstrating a wide range of applications in various medical and research 
settings. Despite their versatility and specificity, the adoption of these 
immunoassay chips in POCT has been limited by their short shelf-life in liquid 
environments, attributed to the degradation of immobilized antibodies. This 
technical limitation presents a barrier, particularly for resource-limited 
settings where long-term storage and functionality are critical. To address this 
challenge, we introduce a novel freeze-dry sublimation process aimed at 
extending the shelf-life of these microfluidic chips without compromising their 
functional integrity. This study elaborates on the mechanisms by which 
freeze-drying preserves the bioactivity of the immobilized antibodies, thereby 
maintaining the chip's performance over an extended period. Our findings reveal 
significant shelf-life extension, making it possible for these POCT platforms to 
be more widely adopted and practically applied, especially in settings with 
limited resources. This research paves the way for more accessible, 
long-lasting, and effective POCT solutions, breaking down previous barriers to 
adoption and application.

DOI: 10.3390/s23208524
PMCID: PMC10610996
PMID: 37896617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declare no conflict of interest.


341. Sensors (Basel). 2023 Oct 23;23(20):8646. doi: 10.3390/s23208646.

Multisensory System for Long-Term Activity Monitoring to Facilitate 
Aging-in-Place.

Lluva-Plaza S(1), Jim√©nez-Mart√≠n A(1), Gualda-G√≥mez D(2), Villadangos-Carrizo 
JM(1), Garc√≠a-Dom√≠nguez JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electronics, University of Alcal√°, 28801 Madrid, Spain.
(2)Department of Signal Theory and Communications, University Rey Juan Carlos, 
28943 Fuenlabrada, Spain.

Demographic changes and an ageing population require more effective methods to 
confront the increased prevalence of chronic diseases which generate dependence 
in older adults as well as an important rise in social expenditure. The 
challenge is not only to increase life expectancy, but also to ensure that the 
older adults can fully enjoy that moment in their lives, living where they wish 
to (private home, nursing home, ‚Ä¶). Physical activity (PA) is a representative 
parameter of a person's state of health, especially when we are getting older, 
because it plays an important role in the prevention of diseases, and that is 
the reason why it is promoted in older adults. One of the goals of this work is 
to assess the feasibility of objectively measuring the PA levels of older adults 
wherever they live. In addition, this work proposes long-term monitoring that 
helps to gather daily activity patterns. We fuse inertial measurements with 
other technologies (WiFi- and ultrasonic-based location) in order to provide not 
only PA, but also information about the place where the activities are carried 
out, including both room-level location and precise positioning (depending on 
the technology used). With this information, we would be able to generate 
information about the person's daily routines which can be very useful for the 
early detection of physical or cognitive impairment.

DOI: 10.3390/s23208646
PMCID: PMC10611293
PMID: 37896739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


342. BJU Int. 2023 Oct 27. doi: 10.1111/bju.16213. Online ahead of print.

Focal therapy with high-intensity focused ultrasound for prostate cancer: 3-year 
outcomes from a prospective trial.

Kaufmann B(1)(2), Raess E(1), Schmid FA(1), Bieri U(1), Scherer TP(1), Elleisy 
M(1), Donati OF(3)(4), Rupp NJ(5), Moch H(5), Gorin MA(2), Mortezavi A(6), 
Eberli D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)Milton and Carroll Petrie Department of Urology, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Institute of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University Hospital of 
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(4)Radiology Hirslanden Zurich, Octorad AG, Zurich, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Pathology and Molecular Pathology, University Hospital of 
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Urology, University Hospital of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the oncological and functional outcomes of focal 
high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) in treating localised prostate cancer 
(PCa), a 3-year prospective study was undertaken using periodic post-ablation 
saturation biopsies.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Men with two or fewer lesions of grade group (GG) ‚â§3 PCa 
were eligible for participation. Additional criteria included a 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level of ‚â§15‚Äâng/mL, clinical T1c-T2, and a life 
expectancy of ‚â•10‚Äâyears. The primary endpoint was failure-free survival (FFS), 
defined as absence of clinically significant PCa (csPCa) in- or out-of-field on 
protocol-mandated saturation biopsy, no whole-gland or systemic salvage 
treatment, PCa metastasis, or PCa-related death. Results are reported using two 
distinct definitions of csPCa: (i) the presence of any GG ‚â•2 and (ii) any GG ‚â•3 
or core involvement of ‚â•6‚Äâmm. Secondary endpoints were functional 
patient-reported outcome measures addressing urinary, sexual, and bowel 
function.
RESULTS: A total of 91 patients were included: six (7%) with GG1 and 85 (93%) 
with GG ‚â•2. In all, 83 (91%) underwent at least one follow-up biopsy. Biopsy 
attendance at 6, 12, and 36‚Äâmonths was 84%, 67%, and 51%, respectively. The FFS 
at these time points for any GG ‚â•2 PCa was 79% (95% confidence interval [CI] 
80-88%), 57% (95% CI 48-69%) and 44% (95% CI 34-56%), respectively. Using the 
second definition, FFS were 88% (95% CI 81-95%), 70% (95% CI 61-81%) and 65% 
(95% CI 55-77%), respectively. The 3-year cancer-specific survival was 100%, and 
freedom from metastasis was 99%. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (negative 
predictive value of up to 89%, 95% CI 84-93%) and relative decrease of PSA 
values (P‚Äâ=‚Äâ0.4) performed poorly in detecting residual disease. Urinary and 
bowel assessment returned to baseline questionnaire scores within 3‚Äâmonths. In 
all, 17 (21%) patients reported meaningful worsening in erectile function. A 
significant decrease of PCa related anxiety was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Focal HIFU treatment for localised PCa shows excellent functional 
outcomes with half of the patients remaining cancer-free after 3‚Äâyears. 
Whole-gland treatment was avoided in 81%. Early follow-up biopsies are crucial 
to change or continue the treatment modality at the right time, while the use of 
MRI and PSA in detecting PCa recurrence is uncertain.

¬© 2023 BJU International.

DOI: 10.1111/bju.16213
PMID: 37897088


343. Magnes Res. 2023 Jun 1;36(2):23-30. doi: 10.1684/mrh.2023.0513.

A case-control study showing low creatinine clearance and high magnesium intake 
as risk factors for hypermagnesemia in older individuals.

Ishii H(1), Sawada R(2), Shiomi M(3), Shibuya K(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Shonan University of Medical Science, 
16-10 Kamishinano, Tostuka-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa, 244-0806, Japan.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Center for Clinical Pharmacy and Sciences, 
Kitasato University School of Pharmacy; 5-9-1 Shirokane, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 
108-8641, Japan.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Center for Clinical Pharmacy and Sciences, 
Kitasato University School of Pharmacy; 5-9-1 Shirokane, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 
108-8641, Japan, Department of Pharmacy, Kitasato University Medical Center; 
6-100 Arai, Kitamoto, Saitama 364-8501, Japan.

According to epidemiological studies, constipation has a negative effect on life 
expectancy, necessitating appropriate treatment. According to the 
Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA), patients who have been taking 
magnesium oxide (MgO) for constipation over a prolonged period, especially those 
with impaired renal function and older individuals, are at high risk of 
hypermagnesemia. Therefore, serum Mg levels, which are often not checked in 
clinical practice, should be monitored in these patients. Thus, to predict 
elevated serum Mg levels and prevent the development of hypermagnesemia, we 
aimed to identify the risk factors of hypermagnesemia, especially in the older 
population. Our study included patients who were prescribed MgO at our hospital 
between January 1, 2014, and March 31, 2016. Patients who did not meet the 
inclusion criteria were excluded and matched to adjust for background factors; 
finally, 35 patients in the hypermagnesemia arm and 140 patients in the 
non-hypermagnesemia arm were included in the analysis. Multivariate analysis 
identified estimated creatinine clearance (eCcr) ‚â§¬†28.2¬†mL/min as a 
statistically significant risk factor. In addition, MgO dose ‚â•¬†900¬†mg/day was 
identified as a risk factor for clinical consideration, although not 
statistically significant. Furthermore, the incidence of hypermagnesemia was 
shown to increase to 11.6% for those with MgO dose ‚â•¬†900¬†mg/day, 27.0% for those 
with eCcr ‚â§¬†28.2¬†mL/min, and 53.1% for those with both. Hypermagnesemia may 
occur in older patients with eCcr¬†‚â§¬†28.2¬†mL/min who take more than 900¬†mg/day of 
MgO.

DOI: 10.1684/mrh.2023.0513
PMID: 37897255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Cell Rep. 2023 Oct 27;42(11):113319. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2023.113319.
Online  ahead of print.

AtFH5-labeled secretory vesicles-dependent calcium oscillation drives exocytosis 
and stepwise bulge during pollen germination.

Ruan H(1), Wang T(2), Ren H(3), Zhang Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Cell Proliferation and Regulation Biology of Ministry of 
Education, College of Life Science, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, 
China; Center for Biological Science and Technology, Zhuhai-Macao Biotechnology 
Joint Laboratory, Advanced Institute of Natural Science, Beijing Normal 
University, Zhuhai 519087, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Cell Proliferation and Regulation Biology of Ministry of 
Education, College of Life Science, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, 
China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Cell Proliferation and Regulation Biology of Ministry of 
Education, College of Life Science, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, 
China; Center for Biological Science and Technology, Zhuhai-Macao Biotechnology 
Joint Laboratory, Advanced Institute of Natural Science, Beijing Normal 
University, Zhuhai 519087, China. Electronic address: hren@bnu.edu.cn.
(4)Key Laboratory of Cell Proliferation and Regulation Biology of Ministry of 
Education, College of Life Science, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, 
China. Electronic address: yi.zhang@bnu.edu.cn.

Pollen germination is an essential step for delivering sperm cells to the embryo 
sac for double fertilization in¬†flowering plants. The cytosolic Ca2+ 
concentration ([Ca2+]cyt) and vesicle dynamics are critical for 
pollen¬†germination, but their potential correlation in pollen grains is not 
fully understood. Here, we report that [Ca2+]cyt oscillates periodically at the 
prospective germination sites during pollen germination. The [Ca2+]cyt is mainly 
from extracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]ext) influx, which implicates the Ca2+-permeable 
ion channel cyclic nucleotide-gated channel 18 (CNGC18). The [Ca2+]cyt 
oscillations spatiotemporally correlate with the accumulation of secretory 
vesicles labeled by a formin protein AtFH5, and disruption of vesicle 
accumulation inhibits the [Ca2+]cyt oscillations. In turn, the [Ca2+]cyt 
oscillations promote exocytosis, which leads to stepwise cell extension during 
pollen germination. Together, these data provide a timeline of vesicle dynamics, 
calcium oscillation, and exocytosis during pollen germination and highlight the 
importance of the correlation of these events for pollen germination.

Copyright ¬© 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2023.113319
PMID: 37897722

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


345. Meat Sci. 2024 Jan;207:109371. doi: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2023.109371. Epub 2023
Oct  21.

Gelatin-sodium alginate packaging film with date pits extract: An eco-friendly 
packaging for extending raw minced beef shelf life.

Elhadef K(1), Chaari M(1), Akermi S(1), Ennouri K(2), Ben Hlima H(3), Fourati 
M(1), Chakchouk Mtibaa A(1), Ennouri M(4), Sarkar T(5), Shariati MA(6), G√∂k≈üen 
G(7), Pateiro M(8), Mellouli L(1), Lorenzo JM(9), Smaoui S(10).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Microbial Biotechnology and Engineering Enzymes (LMBEE), Center 
of Biotechnology of Sfax (CBS), University of Sfax, Road of Sidi Mansour Km 6, 
3018 Sfax, Tunisia.
(2)Olive Tree Institute, University of Sfax, 1087 Sfax, Tunisia.
(3)Laboratoire de G√©nie Enzymatique et Microbiologie, Equipe de Biotechnologie 
des Algues, Ecole Nationale d'Ing√©nieurs de Sfax, Universit√© de Sfax, Sfax, 
Tunisia.
(4)Olive Tree Institute, University of Sfax, 1087 Sfax, Tunisia; Valuation, 
Security and Food Analysis Laboratory, National School of Engineers of Sfax, 
University of Sfax, 3038 Sfax,Tunisia.
(5)Department of Food Processing Technology, Government of West Bengal, Malda 
Polytechnic, Bengal State Council of Technical Education, Malda 732102, West 
Bengal, India.
(6)Semey Branch of Kazakh Research Institute of Processing and Food Industry, 
050060 Almaty, Kazakhstan.
(7)Department of Food Technology, Vocational School of Technical Sciences at 
Mersin Tarsus Organized Industrial Zone, Tarsus University, 33100 Mersin, 
Turkey.
(8)Centro Tecnol√≥gico de la Carne de Galicia, Avd. Galicia n¬∞ 4, Parque 
