(3)Hematology and Hemotherapy Division, Hospital Clinico San Carlos, Madrid, 
Spain.
(4)Hematology and Oncology Division, Weill Cornell Medicine/New York 
Presbyterian, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Internal Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.
(6)Cancer Institute, Hospital Universitario Fundación Santa Fe de Bogotá, 
Bogotá, Colombia.
(7)Education and Knowledge Management, Hospital Universitario Fundación Santa Fe 
de Bogotá, Bogotá, Colombia.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, Hospital Universitario Fundación Santa Fe de 
Bogotá, Bogotá, Colombia.
(9)Nuclear Medicine, Hospital Universitario Fundación Santa Fe de Bogotá, 
Bogotá, Colombia.
(10)Enterprise Analytics Division, Memorial Hermann Health System, Houston, TX, 
USA.
(11)Center of Excellence for Multiple Myeloma, Hospital Universitario Fundación 
Santa Fe de Bogotá, Bogotá, Colombia. martha.romero@fsfb.org.co.
(12)Department of Pathology and Laboratory, Hospital Universitario Fundación 
Santa Fe de Bogotá, Bogotá, Colombia. martha.romero@fsfb.org.co.

Multiple myeloma, the second most common hematologic malignancy worldwide, is an 
aggressive disease with high morbidity and mortality rates. Although myeloma 
remains incurable, new treatments have improved patients' life expectancy and 
quality of life. However, as these therapies are administered for prolonged and 
often indefinite periods, their success depends on high treatment adherence and 
significant patient engagement. This study aimed to evaluate the impact of a 
novel digital educational strategy on treatment adherence, quality of life, and 
the development of complications in patients with newly diagnosed myeloma. To 
this end, a two-arm, randomized, prospective, double-blind study was conducted 
to compare the conventional educational approach alone or combined with the 
novel digital strategy. This strategy was based on some principles of the 
Persuasive Systems Design model and incorporated the educational recommendations 
of patients and caregivers. Compared to the control group that only received 
information through the conventional educational approach, patients randomized 
to the digital strategy showed significantly higher treatment adherence and 
quality of life, associated with increased functionality and rapid 
reincorporation into daily routines. The digital strategy empowered patients and 
caregivers to understand the disease and therapeutic options and helped patients 
recall treatment information and implement healthy lifestyle habits. These 
results support that patient-targeted educational strategies can positively 
influence treatment adherence and thus improve their quality of life.

© 2023. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to American Association for Cancer 
Education.

DOI: 10.1007/s13187-023-02374-w
PMID: 37875743


273. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2023 Oct 24;23(1):517. doi:
10.1186/s12872-023-03552-w.

Analysis and comparison of the trends in burden of rheumatic heart disease in 
China and worldwide from 1990 to 2019.

Shi L(1), Bao C(1), Wen Y(1), Liu X(1), You G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University/West China 
School of Nursing, Sichuan University, NO.37, Lane outside the southern, 
Chengdu, 610000, Sichuan, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University/West China 
School of Nursing, Sichuan University, NO.37, Lane outside the southern, 
Chengdu, 610000, Sichuan, China. gyingyou@163.com.

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to describe the temporal trends in age and gender 
burdens of rheumatic heart disease (RHD) in China from 1990 to 2019, including 
incidence, prevalence, mortality, and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), 
and to compare them with the global burden of the disease.
METHODS: Using open data from the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) database from 
1990 to 2019, this study analyzed the characteristics of RHD burden in China and 
worldwide, including changes in incidence, prevalence, mortality, and DALYs. 
Joinpoint was used to calculate the average annual percentage change (AAPC) and 
the corresponding 95% confidence interval (95% CI) to reflect the trends in the 
burden of RHD. A comprehensive comparative analysis of the differences in RHD 
burden between China and the rest of the world was conducted from multiple 
dimensions, including age, gender, and time periods.
RESULTS: From 1990 to 2019, the age-standardized incidence rate (ASIR) of RHD in 
China decreased from 29.62/100,000 to 23.95/100,000, while the global ASIR 
increased from 32.69/100,000 to 37.40/100,000. The age-standardized prevalence 
rate (ASPR) in China decreased from 446.15/100,000 to 390.24/100,000, while the 
global ASPR increased from 451.56/100,000 to 513.68/100,000. The 
age-standardized rates of mortality (ASMR) in China decreased from 18.11/100,000 
to 4.04/100,000, while the global ASMR decreased from 8.94/100,000 to 
3.85/100,000. The age-standardized DALY rate (ASDR) in China decreased from 
431.45/100,000 to 93.73/100,000, while the global ASDR decreased from 
283.30/100,000 to 132.88/100,000. The AAPC of ASIR, ASPR, ASMR, and ASDR in 
China was - 0.73%, -0.47%, -5.10%, and - 5.21%, respectively, while the AAPC of 
the global burden of RHD was 0.48%, 0.45%, -2.87%, and - 2.58%, respectively. 
The effects of age and gender on the burden of RHD were different. ASIR 
generally decreased with increasing age, while ASPR increased first and then 
decreased. ASMR and ASDR increased with increasing age. Women had higher 
incidence and mortality rates of RHD than men.
CONCLUSION: From 1990 to 2019, the incidence, prevalence, mortality, and DALYs 
of RHD in China decreased, indicating a relative reduction in the burden of RHD 
in China. The burden of RHD is age-related, with a higher prevalence observed in 
the younger population, a peak incidence among young adults, and a higher 
mortality rate among the elderly population. Women are more susceptible to RHD 
and have a higher risk of mortality than men. Given China's large population and 
aging population, RHD remains a significant public health challenge in China.

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s12872-023-03552-w
PMCID: PMC10594932
PMID: 37875798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


274. BMC Surg. 2023 Oct 24;23(1):323. doi: 10.1186/s12893-023-02230-0.

Oncological prognosis and morbidity of hepatectomy in elderly patients with 
hepatocellular carcinoma: a propensity score matching and multicentre study.

Wang CM(1), Chen ZX(1), Ma PC(1), Chen JM(1), Jiang D(1), Hu XY(1), Ma FX(1), 
Hou H(2), Ma JL(3), Geng XP(1), Liu FB(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, Anhui, 230022, China.
(2)Department of General Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Anhui 
Medical University, Anhui, 230601, China.
(3)Department of General Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of University of 
Science and Technology, Anhui, 230031, China.
(4)Department of General Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, Anhui, 230022, China. lfbahmu@outlook.com.

PURPOSE: With increasing life expectancy, the number of elderly patients (≥ 65 
years) with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has steadily increased. Hepatectomy 
remains the first-line treatment for HCC patients. However, the prognosis of 
hepatectomy for elderly patients with HCC remains unclear.
METHODS: Clinical and follow-up data from 1331 HCC patients who underwent 
surgery between 2008 and 2020 were retrospectively retrieved from a multicentre 
database. Patients were divided into elderly (≥ 65 years) and non-elderly (< 65 
years) groups, and PSM was used to balance differences in the baseline 
characteristics. The postoperative major morbidity and cancer-specific survival 
(CSS) of the two groups were compared and the independent factors that were 
associated with the two study endpoints were identified by multivariable 
regression analysis.
RESULTS: Of the 1331 HCC patients enrolled in this study, 363 (27.27%) were 
elderly, while 968 (72.73%) were not. After PSM, 334 matched samples were 
obtained. In the propensity score matching (PSM) cohort, a higher rate of major 
morbidity was found in elderly patients (P = 0.040) but the CSS was similar in 
the two groups (P = 0.087). Multivariate analysis revealed that elderly age was 
not an independent risk factor associated with high rates of major morbidity 
(P = 0.117) or poor CSS (P = 0.873). The 1-, 3- and 5-year CSS rates in the 
elderly and non-elderly groups were 91.0% versus 86.2%, 71.3% versus 68.8% and 
55.9% versus 58.0%, respectively. Preoperative alpha fetoprotein (AFP) level, 
Child‒Pugh grade, intraoperative blood transfusion, extended hemi hepatectomy, 
and tumour diameter could affect the postoperative major morbidity and 
preoperative AFP level, cirrhosis, Child‒Pugh grade, macrovascular invasion, 
microvascular invasion (MVI), satellite nodules, and tumor diameter were 
independently and significantly associated with CSS.
CONCLUSION: Age itself had no significant effect on the prognosis of elderly 
patients with HCC after hepatectomy. Hepatectomy can be safely performed in 
elderly patients after cautious perioperative management.

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s12893-023-02230-0
PMCID: PMC10594915
PMID: 37875843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


275. BMC Pulm Med. 2023 Oct 24;23(1):403. doi: 10.1186/s12890-023-02712-0.

Tumor seeding following CT- guided transthoracic needle biopsy in lung cancer. A 
case report.

Melzer T(1), Hackl CM(2), Walter J(2), Behr J(2), Tufman A(2), Mertsch P(2), 
Kauffmann-Guerrero DE(2), Kahnert K(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine V, University Hospital Munich (LMU), Comprehensive 
Pneumology Center Munich (CPC-M), Member of the German Center for Lung Research 
(DZL), Ziemssenstr. 1, 80336, Munich, Germany. 
Thomas.Melzer@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(2)Department of Medicine V, University Hospital Munich (LMU), Comprehensive 
Pneumology Center Munich (CPC-M), Member of the German Center for Lung Research 
(DZL), Ziemssenstr. 1, 80336, Munich, Germany.
(3)MediCenter Germering, Germering, Germany.

As a result of advances in the treatment of lung cancer, the life expectancy of 
lung cancer patients has improved significantly, but it remains the leading 
cause of cancer death worldwide. For decades, most of the initial tumor biopsies 
have been obtained by bronchoscopy or computed tomography (CT)-guided 
transthoracic lung biopsy without concerning reports of cancer seeding following 
the latter. In this case report we discuss the patient history of a 56-year old 
women with low-differentiated squamous cell lung cancer who developed tumor 
seeding following a CT-guided transthoracic biopsy 11 months after the 
intervention. This is put into context reviewing former and current literature.

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s12890-023-02712-0
PMCID: PMC10594682
PMID: 37875852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Mr. Kauffmann-Guerrero recieved consulting fees 
by Boehringer Ingelheim, BMS, Takeda, Roche, AGMEN, AstraZeneca, GSK and Pfizer. 
He was also payed for lectures by Boehringer Ingelheim, BMS, Takeda, Roche, 
AGMEN, AstraZeneca, GSK, Pfizer. There was support for attending meetings or 
travel by Takeda and Boehringer Ingelheim. Mrs. Tufman recieved funding by Astra 
Zeneca and is a member of the thoracic oncology group in AIO. Mrs. Kahnert 
recieved consulting fees by Astra Zeneca. She was also payed for lectures by 
Boehringer Ingelheim, GSK, AstraZeneca and participated an advisory board oft 
the latter. ICMJE Disclosure forms were obtained from all authors and can be 
shown, if requested. The other Authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.


276. J Food Sci. 2023 Oct 25. doi: 10.1111/1750-3841.16812. Online ahead of
print.

Development of a novel cryostructured composite coating of xanthan-bovine 
collagen-oregano essential oil spraying applied for the preservation of 
commercial biscuits marketed in Mexico.

Coria-Hernández J(1), Méndez-Albores A(2), Vázquez-Durán A(2), Arjona-Román 
JL(1), Meléndez-Pérez R(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory 13 Thermal and Structural Analysis of Materials and Foods, 
National Autonomous University of Mexico-Superior Studies Faculty at Cuautitlan 
(UNAM-FESC) Campus 4, Multidisciplinary Research Unit, Cuautitlan Izcalli, 
Mexico.
(2)Laboratory 14-A1 Materials Science and Technology, National Autonomous 
University of Mexico-Superior Studies Faculty at Cuautitlan (UNAM-FESC) Campus 
4, Multidisciplinary Research Unit, Cuautitlan Izcalli, Mexico.

Cryostructured gels, better known as cryogels, are a very important emerging 
class of biomaterials that have diverse applications in food preservation. This 
work shows a novel alternative to prepare a cryostructured composite coating 
made from a blend of xanthan, bovine collagen, and oregano essential oil. The 
composite coating was suitably applied onto the surface of preservative-free 
biscuits which were stored for 15 days at 25 ± 2°C and 52% ± 1% relative 
humidity. The evaluation focused mainly on the changes in the physicochemical, 
textural, and microbiological characteristics of the biscuits. It was found that 
the coated samples significantly (p < 0.05) decreased moisture absorption, water 
activity, and fungal growth. However, the composite coating minimally impacted 
the quality of biscuits in terms of color, texture profile, and surface 
microstructure. Overall, the cryostructured composite coating constitutes an 
advance in technological strategies aimed at the preservation of baked products. 
This will allow, in the future, the development of novel coatings on bakery 
products to generate new trends in the conservation of their properties and 
extension of shelf life. This could be achieved through the implementation of 
new technologies in the food industry, with the aim of making them more 
environmentally friendly and contributing to the generation of less plastic 
waste. PRACTICAL APPLICATION: The study and application of cryogels, as 
innovative systems in the food industry, allow to expand and diversify the 
materials that can function as coatings to maintain some quality 
characteristics, in this case in bakery products, so it is important to analyze 
their effects and consider them to improve conservation processes.

© 2023 The Authors. Journal of Food Science published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Institute of Food Technologists.

DOI: 10.1111/1750-3841.16812
PMID: 37876289


277. Patient Relat Outcome Meas. 2023 Oct 18;14:305-312. doi:
10.2147/PROM.S408175.  eCollection 2023.

Impact of Ravulizumab on Patient Outcomes and Quality of Life in Generalized 
Myasthenia Gravis.

Antozzi C(1)(2), Mantegazza R(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuroimmunology and Neuromuscular Diseases Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto 
Neurologico C. Besta, Milan, Italy.
(2)Immunotherapy and Apheresis Departmental Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto 
Neurologico C. Besta, Milan, Italy.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune ion channel disorder in which antibodies 
to different end-plate antigens impair neuromuscular transmission, ultimately 
leading to muscle weakness and fatigability. In about 85% of patients with MG, 
autoantibodies against the acetylcholine receptor (AChR) activate the complement 
cascade, causing damage to the neuromuscular junction. MG is a chronic disorder 
for which standard therapies with corticosteroids, immunosuppressive drugs, and 
immunomodulation with plasma exchange or intravenous immunoglobulins modify the 
course of the disease, but the residual burden of physical, psychological, and 
social disability highlights several unmet needs, among these the need for 
specific, targeted, and well tolerated therapies able to improve the patients' 
quality of life. Complement inhibition paved the way to precision medicine in MG 
since, for the first time, a specific therapy targeting a crucial pathogenetic 
step has been designed, tested, and proven to be effective in a controlled 
fashion. Ravulizumab represents the first long-acting complement inhibitor 
approved for treatment of patients with generalized MG, able to provide rapid, 
complete, and sustained complement inhibition. Ravulizumab improved the MG 
Activity of Daily Living scale and other clinical parameters up to 26 weeks as 
shown by the CHAMPION MG trial, and by its open label extension, with the added 
value of being administered every 8 weeks. The schedule of administration is 
likely to improve patients' adherence and hence their quality of life. The 
introduction of complement inhibition will considerably change the traditional 
therapeutic strategy for MG.

© 2023 Antozzi and Mantegazza.

DOI: 10.2147/PROM.S408175
PMCID: PMC10590807
PMID: 37876920

Conflict of interest statement: RM received funding for travel, meeting 
attendance, and advisory board participation from Alexion, argenx, Biomarin, 
Catalyst, Sanofy Genzyme, Regeneron, and UCB, and is a consultant for Janssen. 
CA received funding for travel, meeting attendance, and advisory board 
participation from Alexion, Momenta, Sanofi, argenx, and UCB.


278. Turk J Haematol. 2023 Oct 25. doi: 10.4274/tjh.galenos.2023.2023-0194.
Online  ahead of print.

Long-term Results of Imatinib Discontinuation in Patients with Chronic Phase 
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia: National Multicenter Prospective Study.

Savaş EM(1), Yılmaz S(2), Başer Dikyar AA(3), Özkurt ZN(1), Öcal R(4), Can F(5), 
Pepeler S(5), Aydın Kaynar L(3), Gökçen S(1), Yıldız A(6), Albayrak M(7), 
Karakuş S(8), Çeneli Ö(9), Yağcı M(1).

Author information:
(1)Gazi University Faculty of Medicine, Department of Hematology, Ankara, 
Türkiye.
(2)Konya City Hospital, Department of Hematology, Konya, Türkiye.
(3)Ankara Etlik City Hospital, Clinic of Hematology, Ankara, Türkiye.
(4)Liv Hospital, Clinic of Hematology, Ankara, Türkiye.
(5)Ankara Bilkent City Hospital, Clinic of Hematology, Ankara, Türkiye.
(6)University of Health Sciences Türkiye, Hitit University Çorum Erol Olçok 
Training and Research Hospital, Clinic of Hematology, Çorum, Türkiye.
(7)University of Health Sciences Türkiye, Dışkapı Yıldırım Beyazıt Training and 
Research Hospital, Clinic of Hematology, Ankara, Türkiye.
(8)Başkent University Faculty of Medicine, Department of Hematology, Ankara, 
Türkiye.
(9)Necmettin Erbakan University Faculty of Medicine, Department of Hematology, 
Konya, Türkiye.

The discovery of imatinib is a milestone for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) (1). 
As life expectancy in CML patients has approached that of the general population 
(2), research has shifted towards improving quality of life and economic 
considerations. After 2010, it has been shown that some patients could maintain 
molecular response even after discontinuing imatinib (3). This national 
multicenter prospective cohort study aimed to observe the long-term consequences 
of discontinuing imatinib therapy in adult chronic phase CML patients. A total 
of 41 patients were included. The median follow-up time after imatinib 
discontinuation was 48 months (minimum-maximum 6-81 months). The rate of 
molecular relapse-free survival (MRFS) at 48 months was 33,2% (CI:48.2-18.2). 
Twenty-seven of 41 patients lost their major molecular response MMR, treatment 
was started again, and the molecular response was re-achieved with imatinib in 
all patients. There was no significant relationship between molecular relapse 
and clinical factors like duration of treatment or molecular response status. 
Discontinuing imatinib resulted in approximately 4,392,000 Turkish Liras (TRY) 
or 245,150 US dollars (USD) in savings. In conclusion, imatinib discontinuation 
with close molecular monitoring is a safe option and provides important national 
economic benefits and enhanced quality of life. This approach should be 
considered for all eligible patients. This is the first tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor discontinuation study from Turkey.

DOI: 10.4274/tjh.galenos.2023.2023-0194
PMID: 37877113


279. Pharm Nanotechnol. 2023 Oct 24. doi: 10.2174/0122117385260631231016102111. 
Online ahead of print.

Emerging Nanotechnological Applications in Preserving and Improving the Shelf 
Life of Food.

Saini R(1), Paserkar N(2), Varma A(3), Acharya DK(4), Upadhye V(5), Pathak D(6), 
Warghane A(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Gargi College, University of Delhi, Delhi, India.
(2)Faculty of Life Sciences, Mandsaur University, Mandsaur, Madhya Pradesh, 
India.
(3)Arundeep Akshay Urja Pvt. Ltd. Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(4)B.N. Patel Institute of Paramedical and Science, Anand, Gujarat, India.
(5)Centre of Research for Development (CR4D), Parul University, Vadodara, 
Gujarat, India.
(6)Faculty Member of Physics, University of West Indies, St Augustine Campus, 
Trinidad.
(7)School of Applied Sciences and Technology (SAST), Gujarat Technological 
University, Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India.

The ever-growing demand for safe and nutritious food has activated the 
scrutinization of innovative approaches to enhance food preservation and 
extended shelf life. Nanotechnology has progressed by making a significant 
contribution to the food industry at the nanoscale level and appeared as a 
promising avenue for these challenges. Various nanomaterials have been employed 
to preserve and extend the shelf life of a variety of food products. Since most 
harvested fruits and vegetables have a perishable nature, they cannot be 
preserved in natural circumstances for a long period. Due to a range of unique 
qualities, nanotechnology-related shelf life extension technologies can 
compensate for the limitations of normal preservation procedures. The 
encapsulation of nutraceuticals increases their stability and bioavailability, 
resulting in beneficial effects on humans. Nanoparticles are used as carriers of 
health-promoting and/or functional substances in product formulations. They have 
shown excellent effectiveness in encapsulating bioactive substances and 
retaining their qualities to ensure their functioning (antioxidant and 
antibacterial) in food products. This review focuses on the current developments 
in nanotechnology and their application for improving shelf life and food 
preservation techniques. Here we excavated the implementation of different types 
and forms of nanostructured materials (NSMs), from inorganic metals, metal 
oxides, and their nanocomposites to nano-organic materials incorporating 
bioactive chemicals in the food system. This review also focuses on exploring 
the slow and sustainable release of the bioactive compounds, and nutrients 
enriching the taste and sensory characteristics of the food. Throughout the 
paper, we dug deep into the regulatory, food safety, and assessment concerns 
about nanotechnology. The review provides a deep understanding of the developing 
landscape of nanotechnological applications, challenges, and future 
opportunities revolutionizing the preservation and extended shelf life of food 
products.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0122117385260631231016102111
PMID: 37877511


280. Acta Derm Venereol. 2023 Oct 25;103:adv17752. doi:
10.2340/actadv.v103.17752.

Efficacy and Safety of Tildrakizumab in Older Patients: Pooled Analyses of Two 
Randomized Phase III Clinical Trials (reSURFACE 1 and reSURFACE 2) Through 244 
Weeks.

Ter Haar ELM(1), Van den Reek JMPA(2), Gaarn Du Jardin K(3), Barbero-Castillo 
A(3), De Jong EMGJ(2), Lubeek SFK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Radboud University Medical Centre (Radboudumc), 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Elke.terHaar@radboudumc.nl.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Radboud University Medical Centre (Radboudumc), 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)Almirall R&D, Barcelona, Spain.

The evidence on treating older patients with psoriasis with modern biologics is 
scarce. This study compared the efficacy and safety of tildrakizumab among 
younger and older patients with psoriasis (< 65/≥ 65 years) in a post hoc 
analysis of 2 phase III trials (reSURFACE1/2, n = 1,862). Tildrakizumab 100 
mg/200 mg was administered at weeks 0/4/every 12 weeks thereafter. At week 28, 
patients with ≥ 75% improvement in baseline Psoriasis Area and Severity Index 
(PASI75) in reSURFACE1 were re-randomized to the same tildrakizumab dose or 
placebo; in reSURFACE2, PASI75 responders to 200 mg were re-randomized to 
tildrakizumab 100 mg or 200 mg; PASI75 responders to 100 mg maintained their 
dose. At weeks 64/52 (reSURFACE1/2), PASI50 responders entered an extension 
period (weeks 256/244). Outcomes were proportion of patients with PASI < 3, 
Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) 0/1, comorbidities, comedication, and 
side-effects. The proportion of patients with a PASI < 3 was similar and 
maintained (tildrakizumab 100 mg and 200 mg, week 244: 83.3% and 84.1%/92.3% and 
100.0%); DLQI 0/1 proportions at week 52 were 66.8% and 72.0%/68.3% and 81.3%. 
Comorbidity and comedication were more common in older patients. The safety 
profile of tildrakizumab appeared favourable in both groups. Tildrakizumab in 
patients ≥ 65 years appears effective and safe in long-term psoriasis 
management. These findings might assist treatment selection and overcome 
treatment reluctance.

DOI: 10.2340/actadv.v103.17752
PMCID: PMC10614651
PMID: 37877618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: EtH has carried out investigator-initiated 
research with financial support from Almirall and has carried out clinical 
trials for Novartis. All funding is not personal but goes to the independent 
Research Fund of the Department of Dermatology of Radboud University Medical 
Centre Nijmegen (Radboudumc), The Netherlands; JvdR carried out clinical trials 
for AbbVie, Celgene and Janssen and has received speaking fees/attended advisory 
boards from AbbVie, Janssen, BMS, Almirall, Leo Pharma, Novartis, UCB and Eli 
Lilly and reimbursement for attending a symposium from Janssen, Pfizer, Celgene 
and AbbVie. All funding is not personal but goes to the independent research 
fund of the Department of Dermatology of Radboudumc Nijmegen, the Netherlands; 
KGdJ and ABC are employers of Almirall; EdJ has received research grants for the 
independent research fund of the Department of Dermatology of Radboudumc 
Nijmegen, the Netherlands from AbbVie, BMS, Janssen, Leo Pharma, Novartis, and 
UCB for research on psoriasis. Has acted as consultant and/or paid speaker for 
and/or participated in research sponsored by companies that manufacture drugs 
used for the treatment of psoriasis or eczema including AbbVie, Amgen, Almirall, 
Celgene, Galapagos, Janssen, Lilly, Novartis, Leo Pharma, Sanofi and UCB. All 
funding is not personal but goes to the independent research fund of the 
Department of Dermatology of Radboudumc Nijmegen, the Netherlands; SL has 
received research grants for investigator-initiated research from Almirall and 
has acted as consultant, advisory board member and/or paid speaker for Leo 
Pharma, Sanofi Genzyme, Sunpharma, Almirall, and Janssen. All financial 
compensations/grants were paid to the independent research fund of the 
Department of Dermatology of Radboudumc Nijmegen, the Netherlands.


281. Radiologie (Heidelb). 2023 Oct 25. doi: 10.1007/s00117-023-01226-4. Online
ahead  of print.

[Cystic pancreatic lesions-indications, timing and reasons for surveillance].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Vornhülz M(1), Sirtl S(2), Orgler E(2), Weniger M(3), Schirra J(2), Beyer G(2), 
Mayerle J(4).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik II, LMU Klinikum, Marchioninistr. 15, 
81377, München, Deutschland. marlies.vornhuelz@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(2)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik II, LMU Klinikum, Marchioninistr. 15, 
81377, München, Deutschland.
(3)Klinik für Allgemein‑, Viszeral- und Transplantationschirurgie, LMU Klinikum, 
Marchioninistr. 15, 81377, München, Deutschland.
(4)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik II, LMU Klinikum, Marchioninistr. 15, 
81377, München, Deutschland. julia.mayerle@med.uni-muenchen.de.

BACKGROUND: Cystic pancreatic lesions are detected incidentally at an increasing 
rate. Often, the patients present asymptomatically. Hence, the resulting 
clinical consequences remain challenging and unsettling for both physicians and 
patients.
OBJECTIVES: Status of current recommendations in handling cystic pancreatic 
lesions.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Selective literature search of PubMed while taking 
current guidelines into account.
RESULTS: Correct diagnostic classification of the cystic lesion is crucial since 
further action depends on the type of cystic lesion. Resection is generally 
recommended for mucinous cystic neoplasms (MCN), solid pseudopapillary neoplasms 
(SPN), and intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMN) with relevant risk 
criteria such as prominent main-duct dilation. Surveillance is recommended for 
IPMN without risk criteria, as long as comorbidities and life expectancy of the 
patient will allow preventive resection over the years. SCNs are benign and only 
symptomatic SCNs require resection. Inflammatory pancreatic cysts should only be 
treated under certain circumstances.

Publisher: ZUSAMMENFASSUNG: HINTERGRUND: Zystische Läsionen an der 
Bauchspeicheldrüse werden immer häufiger akzidentell bei meist asymptomatischen 
Patienten entdeckt. Die klinische Einordnung solcher Zufallsbefunde gestaltet 
sich oft schwierig und verunsichert Ärzt:innen wie Patient:innen gleichermaßen.
FRAGESTELLUNG: Stand der aktuellen Empfehlungen zum Umgang mit zystischen 
Pankreasläsionen.
MATERIAL UND METHODEN: Selektive Literaturrecherche in PubMed unter 
Berücksichtigung aktueller Leitlinien.
ERGEBNISSE: Essenziell ist die korrekte diagnostische Einordnung der zystischen 
Läsion, da sich hieraus das weitere Vorgehen ergibt. Eine Resektion wird in der 
Regel für muzinös-zystische Neoplasien (MCN), solide pseudopapillare Neoplasien 
(SPN) und intraduktale papillar-muzinöse Neoplasien (IPMN) mit relevanten 
Risikomerkmalen wie deutlicher Hauptgangdilatation empfohlen. Die IPMN ohne 
Risikomerkmale sollten regelmäßige kontrolliert werden, sofern Komorbiditäten 
und Lebenserwartung eine Resektion im Verlauf noch zulassen. Die 
serös-zystischen Neoplasien (SCN) sind benigne und müssen nur bei klinischen 
Beschwerden reseziert werden. Entzündliche Pankreaszysten sollten nur unter 
bestimmten Umständen behandelt werden.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Medizin Verlag GmbH, 
ein Teil von Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-023-01226-4
PMID: 37878017


282. Appl Psychophysiol Biofeedback. 2023 Oct 25. doi:
10.1007/s10484-023-09606-1.  Online ahead of print.

Biofeedback Sensor vs. Physiotherapist Feedback During Core Stabilization 
Training in Patients with Chronic Nonspecific Low Back Pain.

Yeldan I(1), Canan GD(2), Akinci B(3).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Education Institue, Department of Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation, 
Istanbul University-Cerrahpasa, Istanbul, Turkey. ipekyeldan@gmail.com.
(2)Faculty of Health Sciences, Department of Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation, 
Istanbul University-Cerrahpasa, Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Department of Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation (English), Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Biruni University, Istanbul, Turkey.

Core stabilization training utilizes principles of motor learning to retrain 
control of the trunk muscles and lead to improvements in chronic non-specific 
low back pain (CNLBP). To compare the effects of biofeedback sensor and 
conventional physiotherapist (PT) feedback during core stabilization and 
activity training in patients with CNLBP. Thirty-eight patients with CNLBP were 
randomly assigned to Biofeedback (n = 19) or PT feedback (n = 19) groups. 
Patients continued 12 sessions of combined core stabilization and activity 
training. An auditory and tactile biofeedback was given using a validated tilt 
sensor integrated with an application in the Biofeedback group. An experienced 
PT provided verbal and tactile feedback to maintain the neutral position in the 
PT Feedback group. The outcomes were; disability (Revised Oswestry Disability 
Index-RODI), muscle activity (m.transversus abdominis and m.multifidus), pain 
(Visual Analog Scale-VAS), proprioception error of the trunk, patient beliefs 
(Fear Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire-FABQ) and presence of depressive symptoms 
(Beck Depression Index-BDI), and quality of life (Short Form (SF)-36). The main 
effect of time were statistically significant on VAS, RODI, m.transversus 
abdominis and m.multifidus muscle activities, flexion, and extension 
proprioception error of the trunk, FABQ, BDI, and SF-36 scores in Biofeedback 
and PT feedback groups (p < 0.05 for all). The time X group interaction was 
significant on flexion and extension proprioception error of the trunk PT 
feedback group (consecutively; p = 0.004, p = 0.022). Biofeedback sensor or PT 
feedback during core stabilization training equally improves pain, disability, 
muscle activity, depressive symptoms, patient beliefs, and quality of life in 
patients with CNLBP.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10484-023-09606-1
PMID: 37878122


283. J Nephrol. 2023 Oct 25. doi: 10.1007/s40620-023-01791-w. Online ahead of
print.

Differences in the purpose of exercise between hemodialysis patients 
who continued or dropped out of exercise programs: a multicenter cohort study.

Yamaguchi T(1), Yabe H(2), Kono K(3), Moriyama Y(4), Yamada T(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, Hamamatsu University Hospital, Hamamatsu, 
Shizuoka, 431-3125, Japan. t.yamaguchi813@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Physical Therapy, Seirei Christopher University. School of 
Rehabilitation, Hamamatsu, Shizuoka, 433-8558, Japan.
(3)Department of Physical Therapy, School of Health Sciences at Narita, 
International University of Health and Welfare, Kozunomori, Narita, Chiba, 
285-8686, Japan.
(4)Department of Wellness Center, Nagoya Kyoritsu Hospital, Nagoya, Aichi, 
454-0933, Japan.
(5)Dialysis Division, Kaikoukai Healthcare Group, Nagoya, Aichi, 454-0933, 
Japan.

BACKGROUND: Selecting suitable exercise goals is crucial for fostering adherence 
to, and maintenance of, exercise therapy. We aimed to evaluate the variance in 
exercise objectives between individuals who continued and those 
who dropped out of a 6-month intradialytic exercise program by analyzing an 
open-ended questionnaire administered to patients undergoing hemodialysis.
METHODS: The study consisted of outpatients (n = 541; mean age, 70 years) 
undergoing maintenance hemodialysis, who had been informed of an intradialytic 
exercise program and voluntarily agreed to participate. The primary outcome was 
the exercise purpose. The difference in exercise purpose was quantitatively 
analyzed between the exercise continuation and dropout groups. A co-occurrence 
network was created and concepts were constructed. The basic attributes were 
compared using chi-squared and independent t-tests.
RESULTS: Over 6 months, 154 patients (28.5%) dropped out of the intradialytic 
exercise program. Concepts related to the goals of the program were: (1) 
physical function and condition, (2) addressing limitations, (3) maintaining 
daily life activities, and (4) physical condition recognition. Co-occurrence 
network analysis showed that the exercise continuation group established their 
objectives based on the health benefits of exercise, and proactively set goals 
rooted in comprehending their current issues and problems. The dropout group 
tended to perceive treatment passively as an extension of daily clinical 
practice, rather than actively formulating exercise objectives.
CONCLUSION: The exercise objectives of those who continued the exercise program 
differed from those who dropped out. Patients in the exercise continuation group 
set more affirmative and specific exercise objectives, whereas those in the 
dropout group set more passive and abstract exercise objectives.

© 2023. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Italian Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.1007/s40620-023-01791-w
PMID: 37878181


284. Expert Rev Proteomics. 2023 Oct 25:1-13. doi: 10.1080/14789450.2023.2274857.
 Online ahead of print.

Understanding the age-related alterations in the testis-specific proteome.

Martins AD(1), Ribeiro JC(1)(2)(3), Ferreira R(1), Alves MG(4), Oliveira PF(1).

Author information:
(1)LAQV-REQUIMTE and Department of Chemistry, University of Aveiro, Aveiro, 
Portugal.
(2)Unit for Multidisciplinary Research in Biomedicine (UMIB), Institute of 
Biomedical Sciences Abel Salazar (ICBAS), University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(3)Laboratory for Integrative and Translational Research in Population Health 
(ITR), University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(4)iBiMED-Institute of Biomedicine, Department of Medical Sciences, University 
of Aveiro, Aveiro, Portugal.

INTRODUCTION: Fertility rates in developing countries have declined over the 
past decades, and the trend of delayed fatherhood is rising as societies 
develop. The reasons behind the decline in male fertility with advancing age 
remain mysterious, making it a compelling and crucial area for further research. 
However, the limited number of studies dedicated to unraveling this enigma poses 
a challenge. Thus, our objective is to illuminate some of the upregulated and 
downregulated mechanisms in the male testis during the aging process.
AREAS COVERED: Herein, we present a critical overview of the studies addressing 
the alterations of testicular proteome through the aging process, starting from 
sexually matured young males to end-of-life-expectancy aged males. The 
comparative studies of the proteomic testicular profile of men with and without 
spermatogenic impairment are also discussed and key proteins and pathways 
involved are highlighted.
EXPERT OPINION: The difficulty of making age-comparative studies, especially of 
advanced-age study subjects, makes this topic of study quite challenging. 
Another topic worth mentioning is the heterogeneous nature and vast cellular 
composition of testicular tissue, which makes proteome data interpretation 
tricky. The cell type sorting and comorbidities testing in the testicular tissue 
of the studied subjects would help mitigate these problems.

DOI: 10.1080/14789450.2023.2274857
PMID: 37878493


285. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2023 Oct 25:jnnp-2023-332398. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp-2023-332398. Online ahead of print.

Proximity extension assay-based discovery of biomarkers for disease activity in 
chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy.

Wieske L(#)(1)(2), Michael MR(#)(3), In 't Veld SGJG(4), Visser A(4), van Schaik 
IN(3)(5), Eftimov F(3), Teunissen CE(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurophysiology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam UMC Location AMC, Amsterdam, Noord-Holland, The Netherlands 
l.wieske@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, Sint Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, 
The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Neurology and Neurophysiology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam UMC Location AMC, Amsterdam, Noord-Holland, The Netherlands.
(4)Neurochemistry Laboratory, Department of Clinical Chemistry, Amsterdam 
Neuroscience, Amsterdam UMC Location VUmc, Amsterdam, Noord-Holland, The 
Netherlands.
(5)Sanquin Bloedvoorziening, Amsterdam, Noord-Holland, The Netherlands.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Objective disease activity biomarkers are lacking in chronic 
inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP), impacting treatment decisions 
in clinical care and outcomes in clinical trials. Using a proximity extension 
assay, we aimed to identify candidate serum protein biomarkers for disease 
activity in CIDP.
METHOD: We collected clinical data and serum of 106 patients with CIDP. Patients 
starting induction treatment (n=53) and patients on maintenance treatment 
starting treatment withdrawal (n=40) were assessed at baseline and at 6 months 
(or at relapse). Patients in remission (n=13) were assessed once. Clinical 
disease activity was defined based on improvement or deterioration by the 
minimal clinically important difference on the inflammatory Rasch-built Overall 
Disability Scale in combination with either grip strength or the Medical 
Research Council sum score. Using a proximity extension assay (Olink Explore 
platform), 1472 protein levels were analysed in serum. Candidate proteins were 
selected based on fold change>0.5 or <-0.5 and p<0.05 between clinically active 
and inactive disease. Longitudinal changes of candidate proteins between 
baseline and follow-up were analysed.
RESULTS: We identified 48 candidate proteins that differed between clinically 
active and inactive disease on cross-sectional comparison. Five of these 
proteins (SUGT1, IRAK4, DCTN1, 5'-nucleotidase cytosolic IIIA (NT5C3A), 
glutaredoxin (GLRX)) also showed longitudinal changes consistent with disease 
activity changes. IRAK4 was also identified in a sensitivity analysis, using 
another definition for disease activity.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that IRAK4 and possibly SUGT1, DCTN1, NT5C3A 
and GLRX are candidate biomarkers for monitoring clinical disease activity in 
CIDP.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2023-332398
PMID: 37879899

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: CET reports the following 
grants: Research of CET is supported by the European Commission (Marie Curie 
International Training Network, grant agreement No 860197 (MIRIADE), Innovative 
Medicines Initiatives 3TR (Horizon 2020, grant no 831434) EPND (IMI 2 Joint 
Undertaking (JU), grant No. 101034344) and JPND (bPRIDE), National MS Society 
(Progressive MS alliance), Alzheimer Association, the Dutch Research Council 
(ZonMW), Alzheimer Drug Discovery Foundation, The Selfridges Group Foundation, 
Alzheimer Netherlands. CET is recipient of ABOARD, which is a public-private 
partnership receiving funding from ZonMW (#73305095007) and Health~Holland, 
Topsector Life Sciences & Health (PPP-allowance; #LSHM20106). CET has a 
collaboration contract with ADx Neurosciences, Quanterix and Eli Lilly, 
performed contract research or received grants from AC-Immune, Axon 
Neurosciences, BioConnect, Bioorchestra, Brainstorm Therapeutics, Celgene, EIP 
Pharma, Eisai, Fujirebio, Grifols, Instant Nano Biosensors, Merck, Novo Nordisk, 
PeopleBio, Roche, Siemens, Toyama, Vivoryon. She is editor in chief of Alzheimer 
Research and Therapy and serves on editorial boards of Medidact 
Neurologie/Springer, and Neurology: Neuroimmunology & Neuroinflammation. She had 
speaker contracts for Roche, Grifols, Novo Nordisk. FE reports grants from ZonMw 
(Dutch Governmental Agency) and Prinses Beatrix Spierfonds (Dutch Charity 
Organization) and grants from CSLBehring, Kedrion, Terumo BCT, Grifols and 
Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, outside the submitted work. Grants were paid to 
institution and are used for investigator-initiated randomized controlled trials 
and studies within INCbase, an international CIDP registry. In addition, he 
received consultancy fee from UCB Pharma, Grifols, Sanofi and Dianthus 
Therapeutics paid to institution, outside the submitted work. INS reports grants 
from Dutch Governmental grant (ZonMw/Rational Pharmacotherapy program), 
non-financial support from Sanquin Plasma Products B.V., and grants from 
CSL-Behring, all outside the submitted work on of competing interest. LW 
received research grants from Grifols and the GBS/CIDP Foundation for the study 
of disease activity biomarkers in CIDP. The remaining authors have nothing to 
disclose.


286. NPJ Digit Med. 2023 Oct 25;6(1):197. doi: 10.1038/s41746-023-00933-5.

A scoping review of artificial intelligence-based methods for diabetes risk 
prediction.

Mohsen F(1), Al-Absi HRH(1), Yousri NA(2)(3)(4), El Hajj N(1)(3), Shah Z(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Science and Engineering, Hamad Bin Khalifa University, Qatar 
Foundation, 34110, Doha, Qatar.
(2)Genetic Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar, Qatar Foundation, Doha, 
Qatar.
(3)College of Health and Life Sciences, Hamad Bin Khalifa University, Qatar 
Foundation, 34110, Doha, Qatar.
(4)Computer and Systems Engineering, Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt.
(5)College of Science and Engineering, Hamad Bin Khalifa University, Qatar 
Foundation, 34110, Doha, Qatar. zshah@hbku.edu.qa.

The increasing prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and its associated 
health complications highlight the need to develop predictive models for early 
diagnosis and intervention. While many artificial intelligence (AI) models for 
T2DM risk prediction have emerged, a comprehensive review of their advancements 
and challenges is currently lacking. This scoping review maps out the existing 
literature on AI-based models for T2DM prediction, adhering to the PRISMA 
extension for Scoping Reviews guidelines. A systematic search of longitudinal 
studies was conducted across four databases, including PubMed, Scopus, 
IEEE-Xplore, and Google Scholar. Forty studies that met our inclusion criteria 
were reviewed. Classical machine learning (ML) models dominated these studies, 
with electronic health records (EHR) being the predominant data modality, 
followed by multi-omics, while medical imaging was the least utilized. Most 
studies employed unimodal AI models, with only ten adopting multimodal 
approaches. Both unimodal and multimodal models showed promising results, with 
the latter being superior. Almost all studies performed internal validation, but 
only five conducted external validation. Most studies utilized the area under 
the curve (AUC) for discrimination measures. Notably, only five studies provided 
insights into the calibration of their models. Half of the studies used 
interpretability methods to identify key risk predictors revealed by their 
models. Although a minority highlighted novel risk predictors, the majority 
reported commonly known ones. Our review provides valuable insights into the 
current state and limitations of AI-based models for T2DM prediction and 
highlights the challenges associated with their development and clinical 
integration.

© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41746-023-00933-5
PMCID: PMC10600138
PMID: 37880301

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


287. Sci Rep. 2023 Oct 25;13(1):18215. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-44345-7.

Edoxaban in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation after percutaneous 
coronary intervention: ENCOURAGE-AF design.

Baldus S(1), Beyer-Westendorf J(2), Möllmann H(3), Rottbauer W(4), Beyerlein 
E(5), Goette A(6).

Author information:
(1)Heart Center of the University Hospital Cologne, University Hospital Cologne, 
Universitätsklinikum Köln, Kerpener Str. 62, 50937, Cologne, Germany. 
Stephan.baldus@uk-koeln.de.
(2)Universitätsklinikum Carl Gustav Carus Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(3)St. Johannes Hospital Dortmund, Dortmund, Germany.
(4)Universitätsklinikum Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(5)Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH, Munich, Germany.
(6)St. Vincenz Krankenhaus Paderborn, Paderborn, Germany.

Approximately one fifth of patients diagnosed with atrial fibrillation (AF) 
undergo a percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Current guidelines recommend 
different combinations and durations of triple or dual antithrombotic therapy 
for these patients but data on the implementation of these recommendations in 
clinical routine are scarce. ENCOURAGE-AF is a prospective, non-interventional, 
non-comparative, multicentre study. Approximately 720 patients will be 
consecutively enrolled from 70 participating sites across Germany. Patients with 
non-valvular AF treated with edoxaban, who have undergone successful PCI, have 
no planned elective cardiac intervention during the study period, have 
capability, availability, and willingness for follow-up by telephone interview 
during the study, are aged ≥ 18 years with life expectancy ≥ 1 year, and provide 
written informed consent, will be included. Eligible patients will be enrolled 
between 4- and 72-h after completing a successful PCI. Duration of exposure to 
and dosing regimens of edoxaban, antiplatelet agents and other concomitant 
medications of interest will be monitored in line with the clinical practice. 
Physician- and patient-reported clinical events, adverse drug reactions, patient 
quality of life (EQ-5D-5L) and health resource utilisation (HRU) parameters will 
be evaluated at 30 days and 1-year post-PCI. The ENCOURAGE-AF non-interventional 
study will provide insights into the patterns of edoxaban usage in combination 
with antiplatelet treatment and other concomitant medications in AF patients 
with a successful PCI over a 1-year time period during routine clinical practice 
in Germany. The effectiveness and safety of edoxaban in this patient population, 
as well as patients' quality of life and HRU will be evaluated.Trial 
registration: Clinicaltrial.gov NCT04519944, registered on 20 August 2020.

© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-44345-7
PMCID: PMC10600182
PMID: 37880316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: SB has received direct personal payments 
including speaker, honoraria, consultancy, advisory board, investigator and 
committee member fees from Bayer Vital, Daiichi Sankyo, Edwards Lifescience, and 
MSD Sharp and Dohme GmbH. Independent of the above activities, he has also 
received travel and meeting support from Amgen Inc., Bayer Vital, Daiichi 
Sankyo, and Novartis, and research funding (under his direct/personal 
responsibility) from Pfizer. JBW has received honoraria and research support 
from Bayer AG, Boehringer Ingelheim, Daiichi Sankyo, Doasense, Pfizer and 
Portola/Alexion. He has also received honoraria for Steering Committee 
activities for the ENCOURAGE-AF study. HM reports having received honoraria for 
Advisory Board activities and research support from Daiichi Sankyo. WR reports 
having received honoraria for Advisory Board activities and research support 
from Daiichi Sankyo. EB is employee of Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH. AG has 
received an EU Grant Horizon 2020 MAESTRIA Consortium; grant number 965286. 
Speaker fees from Abbott, Astra Zeneca, Bayer Health Care, Berlin Chemie, 
Biotronik, Boehringer Ingelheim, BMS/Pfizer, Boston Scientific, Daiichi-Sankyo, 
Medtronic, Omeicos, Sanofi-Aventis and Roche.


288. BMC Nephrol. 2023 Oct 25;24(1):311. doi: 10.1186/s12882-023-03364-2.

Developing and designing an internet-based support and education program for 
patients awaiting kidney transplantation with deceased donors through: a Delphi 
study.

Nilsson K(1)(2), Andersson G(3)(4), Johansson P(5)(6), Lundgren J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health, Medicine and Caring Sciences, Linköping University, 
Norrköping, Sweden. kristina.nilsson@liu.se.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine and Department of Health, Medicine and Caring 
Sciences, Linköping University, Norrköping, Sweden. kristina.nilsson@liu.se.
(3)Department of Behavioural Sciences and Learning, Department of Biomedical and 
Clinical Sciences, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden.
(4)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Department of Health, Medicine and Caring Sciences, Linköping University, 
Norrköping, Sweden.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine and Department of Health, Medicine and Caring 
Sciences, Linköping University, Norrköping, Sweden.

AIMS: The aim of this study was to develop and refine the content and design of 
an internet-based support and education program for patients awaiting kidney 
transplantation from deceased donors.
DESIGN: A Delphi process was used.
METHODS: A prototype internet-based intervention was drafted, based on previous 
research. The intervention included educational and psychological support to 
manage the uncertain waiting time and specific education enabling preparation 
for transplantation and adjustment to life after transplantation. In a two-round 
Delphi process, patients who had received a kidney transplant from a deceased 
donor within the last 2 years (n = 27), significant others (n = 6), health-care 
personnel with renal (n = 20) or transplant (n = 14) expertise, rated importance 
of content and design aspects of the prototype intervention on a 5-point scale 
using web questionnaires. A median of ≥ 3 was considered as consensus. 
Quantitative data was analyzed using descriptive statistics. Free text answers 
were encouraged and analyzed using deductive content analysis. The 
STROBE-checklist was used.
RESULTS: Consensus was reached for all suggested content and design items in 
round 1, with median ratings of 4 or 5. Qualitative analysis from round 1 
suggested four new content and design items which were rated in round 2, on all 
which consensus was reached; information about life with young children as 
relatives, expansion of kidney transplantation specific information, program 
extension by one week and individualization by making information available 
based on individual needs.
CONCLUSION: There was consensus among heterogenous experts regarding suggested 
educational and psychological support content and design aspects, and additional 
content and design aspects were identified for an internet-based support and 
education program for patients awaiting kidney transplantation from deceased 
donors.

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s12882-023-03364-2
PMCID: PMC10601218
PMID: 37880582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


289. Biol Psychiatry Glob Open Sci. 2022 Sep 6;3(4):1012-1020. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpsgos.2022.08.008. eCollection 2023 Oct.

Telomere Length Associations With Clinical Diagnosis, Age, and Polygenic Risk 
Scores for Anxiety Disorder, Depression, and Bipolar Disorder.

Mutz J(1), Lewis CM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, 
Psychology & Neuroscience, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Faculty of Life Sciences & 
Medicine, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Accelerated biological aging might contribute to the lower life 
expectancy of individuals with mental disorders. The aim of this study was to 
characterize telomere length, a biological hallmark of aging, in individuals 
with mental disorders.
METHODS: The UK Biobank is a multicenter community-based observational study 
that recruited >500,000 middle-aged and older adults. Average leukocyte telomere 
length (telomere repeat copy number/single-copy gene ratio) was measured using 
quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) were 
calculated for individuals of European ancestry. We estimated differences in 
telomere length between individuals with anxiety disorder, depression, or 
bipolar disorder and people without mental disorders and examined associations 
with psychotropic medication use, age, and PRSs for these 3 disorders.
RESULTS: The analyses included up to 308,725 participants. Individuals with 
depression had shorter telomeres than people without mental disorders 
(β = -0.011, 95% CI, -0.019 to -0.004, Bonferroni-corrected p = .027). 
Associations between bipolar disorder and telomere length differed by lithium 
use. There was limited evidence that individuals with an anxiety disorder had 
shorter telomeres. There was no evidence that associations between age and 
telomere length differed between individuals with and without these disorders. 
PRSs for depression, but not anxiety disorder or bipolar disorder, were 
associated with shorter telomeres (β = -0.006, 95% CI, -0.010 to -0.003, 
