Risk Factors for Synchronous Lung Metastasis in Squamous Cell Carcinoma of 
Hypopharynx.

Li Y(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Hu C(1)(2)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Shanghai Proton and Heavy Ion Center, 
Cancer Hospital, Shanghai, China.
(2)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Radiation Oncology (20dz2261000), Shanghai, China.
(3)Shanghai Engineering Research Center of Proton and Heavy Ion Radiation 
Therapy, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, 
Shanghai, China.
(5)Department of Oncology, Shanghai Medical College, Shanghai, China.

Background: The objective of this study is to assess the risk factors for 
synchronous lung metastases (LM) in patients with hypopharynx squamous cell 
carcinomas (HPSCC). Methods: HPSCC patients were extracted from the 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database between 2010 and 
2013. We examined the association between risk factors and synchronous LM using 
chi-squared tests. Predictors of survival rates were assessed using univariate 
and multivariate analyses. Results: A total of 1683 patients were analyzed, 
including 70 patients (4.2%) with synchronous LM, and 1613 patients without 
synchronous LM (95.8%). Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that 
Caucasian (P = .038), lower T (P = .026) or N classification (P = .000), and 
highly differentiated disease (P = .002) were associated with a significantly 
lower risk of LM. Elderly not married patients with higher T or N 
classification, multiple sites of metastases, and no surgical therapy to the 
primary tumors were more likely to reduce life expectancy. Conclusion: By 
analyzing data from a large cohort, Caucasian, lower T or N classification, and 
highly differentiated disease were associated with a significantly lower risk of 
LM. Elderly not married patients with advanced T or N classification, no 
surgical therapy to the primary tumors, and multiple sites of metastases were 
more likely to reduce life expectancy. More accurate assessments of LM will be 
imperative for early diagnosis and treatment in non-Caucasian patients who 
harbored higher T or N classification and poorly differentiated disease.

DOI: 10.1177/01455613231212052
PMID: 37991192

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


623. Virologie (Montrouge). 2023 Oct 1;27(5):269-283. doi: 10.1684/vir.2023.1023.

[Nature and evolution of the cellular HIV-1 reservoir in children and 
adolescents].

[Article in French]

Canape J(1), Diallo MA(1), Soudeyns H(2).

Author information:
(1)Unité d'immunopathologie virale, Centre de recherche du Centre hospitalier 
universitaire (CHU) Sainte-Justine, 3175 Côte Sainte-Catherine, local 7.9.61, 
Montréal (Québec) H3T 1C5, Canada, Département de microbiologie, infectiologie 
et immunologie, Faculté de médecine, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada.
(2)Unité d'immunopathologie virale, Centre de recherche du Centre hospitalier 
universitaire (CHU) Sainte-Justine, 3175 Côte Sainte-Catherine, local 7.9.61, 
Montréal (Québec) H3T 1C5, Canada, Département de microbiologie, infectiologie 
et immunologie, Faculté de médecine, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada, Ph.D., Département de pédiatrie, Faculté de médecine, Université de 
Montréal, Montréal, Québec, Canada.

Shortly after primary infection, HIV hides in cellular reservoirs from which it 
becomes difficult or almost impossible to dislodge. In the absence of effective 
antiretroviral therapy, there is almost invariably resurgence of productive 
infection leading to a decline in CD4+ T cell counts and progression of HIV 
disease. The course of HIV infection in adults (horizontal transmission) differs 
significantly from that acquired in children following perinatal transmission: 
steady-state viral load is higher in children, adherence issues make it more 
difficult to control viral load using antiretroviral therapy, and the life 
expectancy of HIV-infected children in absence of treatment is markedly shorter 
than that of adults. Compared to the situation in adults, we know very little 
about the nature of the cellular reservoir in children, about its importance at 
the quantitative level, about its persistence over time, about its evolution 
during infancy, childhood and adolescence, and about its influence on the 
pathogenesis of pediatric HIV-AIDS. Some reported cases of spontaneous remission 
of HIV infection in children in the absence of treatment have also fueled the 
hopes of discovering avenues leading to a functional cure for HIV-AIDS in both 
children and adults.

DOI: 10.1684/vir.2023.1023
PMID: 37991318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Drugs. 2023 Nov 22. doi: 10.1007/s40265-023-01961-x. Online ahead of print.

Mitapivat: A Review in Pyruvate Kinase Deficiency in Adults.

Zhuang-Yan A(1), Shirley M(2).

Author information:
(1)Springer Nature, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay, Auckland, 0754, New 
Zealand. demail@springer.com.
(2)Springer Nature, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay, Auckland, 0754, New 
Zealand.

Mitapivat (Pyrukynd®), an oral, allosteric activator of pyruvate kinase (PK), is 
approved in the USA for the treatment of haemolytic anaemia in adults with PK 
deficiency and in the EU and UK for the treatment of PK deficiency in adults. 
Mitapivat acts by restoring activity of the red blood cell (RBC) PK enzyme, 
which is dysfunctional due to genetic mutations in the PKLR gene in patients 
with PK deficiency. In the double-blind placebo-controlled phase III ACTIVATE 
trial in adults with PK deficiency who were not regularly RBC transfused, 
mitapivat was superior to placebo in improving haemoglobin levels. In the 
single-arm phase III ACTIVATE-T trial in adults with PK deficiency who were 
regularly RBC transfused, a reduction in RBC transfusion burden was observed 
with mitapivat. In both trials, mitapivat improved other clinical parameters of 
haemolysis and patient-reported health-related quality of life. At the approved 
twice-daily dosage range, mitapivat was generally well tolerated, with adverse 
events generally being mild to moderate in severity. Results from an ongoing 
extension study in previously enrolled phase III trial patients will be of 
interest. Currently available data indicate that mitapivat, the first approved 
disease-modifying drug for PK deficiency in adults, is a valuable treatment 
option for this rare disease.

Plain Language Summary: Pyruvate kinase (PK) deficiency is a rare hereditary 
disease caused by mutations affecting the function of the PK enzyme in red blood 
cells (RBCs) and is characterized by chronic haemolytic anaemia. Treatment 
options for adults with PK deficiency have historically been limited to 
supportive care and are themselves associated with potentially serious 
complications. Oral mitapivat (Pyrukynd®) is the first disease-modifying drug to 
be approved for use in adults with PK deficiency and acts by restoring activity 
of the dysfunctional RBC PK enzyme. Based on findings from two phase III 
clinical trials, twice-daily oral mitapivat provided clinical benefit in adults 
with PK deficiency, both in patients not requiring, and requiring, regular RBC 
transfusions. Improvements in disease-specific health-related quality of life 
were observed in adults with PK deficiency treated with mitapivat. Mitapivat was 
generally well tolerated, with most adverse events being mild to moderate in 
severity. In conclusion, current evidence indicates that mitapivat is a valuable 
treatment option for adults with PK deficiency.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-023-01961-x
PMID: 37991635


625. Drugs Aging. 2023 Dec;40(12):1143-1155. doi: 10.1007/s40266-023-01077-7.
Epub  2023 Nov 22.

A Trial-Based Cost-Utility Analysis of a Medication Optimization Intervention 
Versus Standard Care in Older Adults.

Robinson EG(1), Gyllensten H(2), Johansen JS(3), Havnes K(3), Granas AG(4), 
Bergmo TS(3)(5), Småbrekke L(3), Garcia BH(3)(6), Halvorsen KH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Oslo, 1068 Blindern, 0316 Oslo, Norway. 
e.g.robinson@farmasi.uio.no.
(2)Institute of Health and Care Sciences, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Health Sciences, UiT the Arctic University 
of Norway, Tromsø, Norway.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, University of Oslo, 1068 Blindern, 0316 Oslo, Norway.
(5)Norwegian Centre for E-Health Research, University Hospital of North Norway, 
Tromsø, Norway.
(6)Hospital Pharmacy of North Norway Trust, Tromsø, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Older adults are at greater risk of medication-related harm than 
younger adults. The Integrated Medication Management model is an 
interdisciplinary method aiming to optimize medication therapy and improve 
patient outcomes.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to investigate the cost effectiveness of a medication 
optimization intervention compared to standard care in acutely hospitalized 
older adults.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis including 285 adults aged ≥ 70 years was 
carried out alongside the IMMENSE study. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
were derived using the EuroQol 5-Dimension 3-Level Health State Questionnaire 
(EQ-5D-3L). Patient-level data for healthcare use and costs were obtained from 
administrative registers, taking a healthcare perspective. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was estimated for a 12-month follow-up and compared to 
a societal willingness-to-pay range of €/QALY 27,067-81,200 (NOK 
275,000-825,000). Because of a capacity issue in a primary care resulting in 
extended hospital stays, a subgroup analysis was carried out for non-long and 
long stayers with hospitalizations < 14 days or ≥ 14 days.
RESULTS: Mean QALYs were 0.023 [95% confidence interval [CI] 0.022-0.025] higher 
and mean healthcare costs were €4429 [95% CI - 1101 to 11,926] higher for the 
intervention group in a full population analysis. This produced an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of €192,565/QALY. For the subgroup analysis, mean QALYs 
were 0.067 [95% CI 0.066-0.070, n = 222] and - 0.101 [95% CI - 0.035 to 0.048, n 
= 63] for the intervention group in the non-long stayers and long stayers, 
respectively. Corresponding mean costs were €- 824 [95% CI - 3869 to 2066] and 
€1992 [95% CI - 17,964 to 18,811], respectively. The intervention dominated 
standard care for the non-long stayers with a probability of cost effectiveness 
of 93.1-99.2% for the whole willingness-to-pay range and 67.8% at a zero 
willingness to pay. Hospitalizations were the main cost driver, and readmissions 
contributed the most to the cost difference between the groups.
CONCLUSIONS: According to societal willingness-to-pay thresholds, the medication 
optimization intervention was not cost effective compared to standard care for 
the full population. The intervention dominated standard care for the non-long 
stayers, with a high probability of cost effectiveness.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: The IMMENSE trial was registered in 
ClinicalTrials.gov on 28 June, 2016 before enrolment started (NCT02816086).

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-023-01077-7
PMCID: PMC10682290
PMID: 37991657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Eirin Guldsten Robinson, Hanna Gyllensten, 
Jeanette Schultz Johansen, Kjerstin Havnes, Anne Gerd Granas, Trine Strand 
Bergmo, Lars Småbrekke, Beate Hennie Garcia, and Kjell H. Halvorsen have no 
conflicts of interest that are directly relevant to the content of this article.


626. Curr Allergy Asthma Rep. 2023 Nov 22. doi: 10.1007/s11882-023-01113-x.
Online  ahead of print.

Endoscopic Extended Sinus Surgery for Patients with Severe Chronic 
Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps, the Choice of Mucoplasty: A Systematic Review.

Martin-Jimenez D(1), Moreno-Luna R(1), Cuvillo A(2), Gonzalez-Garcia J(1), 
Maza-Solano J(3)(4), Sanchez-Gomez S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Rhinology Unit, Virgen 
Macarena University Hospital, Doctor Fedriani Av. 3, Seville, 41009, Spain.
(2)Unidad de Rinología y Asma, UGC ORL, Hospital Universitaro De Jerez, 
Instituto De Investigación Biomedica De Cadiz (INIBICA), Jerez, 11407, Spain.
(3)Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Rhinology Unit, Virgen 
Macarena University Hospital, Doctor Fedriani Av. 3, Seville, 41009, Spain. 
jmaza@us.es.
(4)Department of Surgery, University of Seville, C. San Fernando, 4, Sevilla, 
41004, Spain. jmaza@us.es.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The advances in the knowledge of the molecular basis of the 
inflammatory response in chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) have 
led the management of these patients towards personalized and precision 
medicine. Surgery has been positioned as a suitable alternative in patients who 
do not achieve control with appropriate medical treatment, but polypoid 
recurrences remain a constraint. The emergence of new surgical approaches based 
on patient phenotyping and the poor disease control associated with type 2 
inflammatory phenotype makes it necessary to review the role of personalized and 
precision surgery in managing the disease.
RECENT FINDINGS: Surgical approaches based on wide resection of bony sinus 
structures and the treatment of mucosa lining the sinonasal cavity have been 
analyzed and compared with other techniques and seem to offer more favorable 
surgical outcomes and improved quality of life (QoL), in addition to lower 
relapse rates. The innovations with new complementary surgical techniques, such 
as reboot surgery adding an extended autologous mucosal graft from the nasal 
floor (mucoplasty), may benefit endoscopic and QoL outcomes in the most severe 
CRSwNP patients with type 2 phenotype. Using bilateral endonasal mucoplasty as a 
complementary technique to reboot surgery is a suitable technical choice that 
has improved short- and medium-term QoL and endoscopic outcomes for patients 
with severe CRSwNP. These results are likely due to a combination of the 
extension of reboot and the inherent inflammatory and healing properties of 
mucoplasty. We propose this technique as a valuable surgical resource, although 
more robust clinical studies are needed to evaluate its long-term benefits 
comprehensively.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11882-023-01113-x
PMID: 37991673


627. JMIR Med Inform. 2023 Nov 22;11:e47052. doi: 10.2196/47052.

The Roles of Electronic Health Records for Clinical Trials in Low- and 
Middle-Income Countries: Scoping Review.

Ye J(#)(1)(2), Xiong S(#)(3)(4), Wang T(5), Li J(6), Cheng N(7), Tian M(3)(5), 
Yang Y(8).

Author information:
(1)Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, United States.
(2)Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, United 
States.
(3)The George Institute for Global Health, Faulty of Medicine and Health, 
University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.
(4)Global Health Research Centre, Duke Kunshan University, Kunshan, China.
(5)School of Public Health, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China.
(6)School of Basic Medicine, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China.
(7)The First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China.
(8)School of Public Health, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, 
Shanghai, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Clinical trials are a crucial element in advancing medical knowledge 
and developing new treatments by establishing the evidence base for safety and 
therapeutic efficacy. However, the success of these trials depends on various 
factors, including trial design, project planning, research staff training, and 
adequate sample size. It is also crucial to recruit participants efficiently and 
retain them throughout the trial to ensure timely completion.
OBJECTIVE: There is an increasing interest in using electronic health records 
(EHRs)-a widely adopted tool in clinical practice-for clinical trials. This 
scoping review aims to understand the use of EHR in supporting the conduct of 
clinical trials in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) and to identify its 
strengths and limitations.
METHODS: A comprehensive search was performed using 5 databases: MEDLINE, 
Embase, Scopus, Cochrane Library, and the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied 
Health Literature. We followed the latest version of the PRISMA-ScR (Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping 
Reviews) guideline to conduct this review. We included clinical trials that used 
EHR at any step, conducted a narrative synthesis of the included studies, and 
mapped the roles of EHRs into the life cycle of a clinical trial.
RESULTS: A total of 30 studies met the inclusion criteria: 13 were randomized 
controlled trials, 3 were cluster randomized controlled trials, 12 were 
quasi-experimental studies, and 2 were feasibility pilot studies. Most of the 
studies addressed infectious diseases (15/30, 50%), with 80% (12/15) of them 
about HIV or AIDS and another 40% (12/30) focused on noncommunicable diseases. 
Our synthesis divided the roles of EHRs into 7 major categories: participant 
identification and recruitment (12/30, 40%), baseline information collection 
(6/30, 20%), intervention (8/30, 27%), fidelity assessment (2/30, 7%), primary 
outcome assessment (24/30, 80%), nonprimary outcome assessment (13/30, 43%), and 
extended follow-up (2/30, 7%). None of the studies used EHR for participant 
consent and randomization.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the enormous potential of EHRs to increase the 
effectiveness and efficiency of conducting clinical trials in LMICs, challenges 
remain. Continued exploration of the appropriate uses of EHRs by navigating 
their strengths and limitations to ensure fitness for use is necessary to better 
understand the most optimal uses of EHRs for conducting clinical trials in 
LMICs.

©Jiancheng Ye, Shangzhi Xiong, Tengyi Wang, Jingyi Li, Nan Cheng, Maoyi Tian, 
Yang Yang. Originally published in JMIR Medical Informatics 
(https://medinform.jmir.org), 22.11.2023.

DOI: 10.2196/47052
PMID: 37991820


628. Brain. 2023 Nov 22:awad398. doi: 10.1093/brain/awad398. Online ahead of
print.

Insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2 in at-risk adults and 
autopsy-confirmed Alzheimer brains.

Quesnel MJ(1)(2), Labonté A(2)(3), Picard C(2)(3), Zetterberg 
H(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9), Blennow K(4)(5)(10)(11), Brinkmalm A(4)(5), Villeneuve 
S(1)(2)(3), Poirier J(1)(2)(3); Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative and 
the PREVENT-AD Research Group.

Collaborators: Tam A, Labonté A, Binette AP, Faubert AM, Mathieu A, Madjar C, 
Carrier CE, Dansereau C, Kazazian C, Lepage C, Picard C, Maillet D, Michaud D, 
Couture D, Dea D, Cuello C, Barkun A, Evans A, Courcot B, Tardif C, Debacker C, 
Jack CR, Fontaine D, Knopman DS, Multhaup G, Near J, Leoutsakos JM, Maltais JR, 
Brandt J, Pruessner J, Morris JC, Breitner JCS, Poirier J, Cheewakriengkrai L, 
Münter LM, Collins L, Chakravarty M, Sager MA, Dauar-Tedeschi M, Eisenberg M, 
Rajah N, Aisen P, Toussaint PJ, Rosa-Neto P, Bellec P, Kostopoulos P, Etienne P, 
Tariot PN, Orban P, Sperling RA, Hoge R, Thomas RG, Gauthier S, Craft S, 
Villeneuve S, Montine TJ, Nair V, Bohbot V, Venugopalan V, Fonov V, 
Ituria-Medina Y, Khachaturian ZS, Teigner E, Anthal E, Yu E, Ferdinand F, 
Pogossova G, Mayrand G, Duclair G, Gagné G, Newbold-Fox H, Leppert I, Vallée I, 
Vogel J, Tremblay-Mercier J, Frenette J, Frappier J, Kat J, Miron J, Wan K, 
Mahar L, Carmo L, Théroux L, Dadar M, Dufour M, Lafaille-Magnan ME, Appleby M, 
Savard M, Tuwaig M, Petkova M, Rioux P, Meyer PF, El-Khoury R, Gordon R, Giles 
R, Das S, Wang S, Tabrizi S, Mathotaarachchi S, Dubuc S, Lee T, Beaudry T, 
Gervais V, Pagé V, Gonneaud J, Ayranci G, Pascoal TA, Desautels R, Benbouhoud F, 
Saint-Fort EF, Verfaillie SCJ, Farzin S, Salaciak A, Tullo S, Vachon-Presseau E, 
Daoust LA, Köbe T, Spreng N, McSweeney M, Nilsson N, Pishnamazi M, Bedetti C, 
Hudon L, Greco C, Chapleau M, St-Onge F, Boutin S, Geddes MR, Ducharme S, Jean 
G, Sylvain E, Élie MJ, Leblond-Baccichet G, Ozlen H, Bailly J, Mohammediyan B, 
Chen Y, Remz J, Soucy JP, Baril AA, Badawy M, Dery C, Raoult JM, Menes J, 
Prenevost N, Poirier A, Tremblay M, Aumont G, Quesnel M, Ao J.

Author information:
(1)McGill University, Department of Psychiatry, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3A 
1A1.
(2)Douglas Mental Health University Institute, Research Centre, Montréal, 
Québec, Canada, H4H 1R3.
(3)Centre for the Studies in the Prevention of Alzheimer's Disease, Douglas 
Mental Health University Institute, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H4H 1R3.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Institute of Neuroscience and 
Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(5)Clinical Neurochemistry Department, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(6)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology, London, 
WC1N 3BG, UK.
(7)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, WC1E 6BT, UK.
(8)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong, China.
(9)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 
53792-2420  USA.
(10)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
21 414-75646 Paris Cedex 13, Paris, France.
(11)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, P.R. China.

Insulin, insulin-like growth factors (IGF) and their receptors are highly 
expressed in the adult hippocampus. Thus, disturbances in the insulin-IGF 
signaling pathway may account for the selective vulnerability of the hippocampus 
to nascent Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. In the present study, we examined 
the predominant IGF-binding protein (IGFBP) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) - 
IGFBP2. CSF was collected from 109 asymptomatic members of the parental 
history-positive PREVENT-AD cohort. CSF levels of IGFBP2, core AD biomarkers and 
synaptic biomarkers were measured using proximity extension assay, ELISA and 
mass spectrometry. Cortical amyloid-beta (Aβ) and tau deposition were examined 
using 18F-NAV4694 and flortaucipir. Cognitive assessments were performed up to 8 
years of follow-up, using the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of 
Neuropsychological Status. T1-weighted structural MRI scans were acquired, and 
neuroimaging analyses were performed on pre-specified temporal and parietal 
brain regions. Next, in an independent cohort, we allocated 241 dementia-free 
ADNI-1 participants into four stages of AD progression based on the biomarkers 
CSF Aβ42 and total-tau (t-tau). In this analysis, differences in CSF and plasma 
IGFBP2 levels were examined across the pathological stages. Finally, IGFBP2 mRNA 
and protein levels were examined in the frontal cortex of 55 autopsy-confirmed 
AD and 31 control brains from the QFP cohort, a unique population isolate from 
Eastern Canada. CSF IGFBP2 progressively increased over 5 years in asymptomatic 
PREVENT-AD participants. Baseline CSF IGFBP2 was positively correlated with CSF 
AD biomarkers and synaptic biomarkers, and was negatively correlated with 
longitudinal changes in delayed memory (P = 0.024) and visuospatial abilities 
(P = 0.019). CSF IGFBP2 was negatively correlated at a trend-level with 
entorhinal cortex volume (P = 0.082) and cortical thickness in the piriform 
(P = 0.039), inferior temporal (P = 0.008), middle temporal (P = 0.014) and 
precuneus (P = 0.033) regions. In ADNI-1, CSF (P = 0.009) and plasma (P = 0.001) 
IGFBP2 were significantly elevated in Stage 2 (CSF Aβ(+)/t-tau(+)). In survival 
analyses in ADNI-1, elevated plasma IGFBP2 was associated with a greater rate of 
AD conversion (HR = 1.62, P = 0.021). In the QFP cohort, IGFBP2 mRNA was reduced 
(P = 0.049), however IGFBP2 protein levels did not differ in the frontal cortex 
of autopsy-confirmed AD brains (P = 0.462). Nascent AD pathology may induce an 
upregulation in IGFBP2, in asymptomatic individuals. CSF and plasma IGFBP2 may 
be valuable markers for identifying CSF Aβ(+)/t-tau(+) individuals and those 
with a greater risk of AD conversion.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awad398
PMID: 37992295


629. Orthop Traumatol Surg Res. 2023 Nov 20:103759. doi:
10.1016/j.otsr.2023.103759.  Online ahead of print.

Distal humerus fracture in older patients: ORIF vs total elbow arthroplasty.

Loisel F(1), Amar Y(1), Rochet S(1), Obert L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic, Trauma, Plastic, Reconstructive and Hand Surgery 
CHRU of Besançon, Besançon, France.
(2)Department of Orthopedic, Trauma, Plastic, Reconstructive and Hand Surgery 
CHRU of Besançon, Besançon, France. Electronic address: laurentobert@yahoo.fr.

Distal humerus fractures are a contemporary problem because the life expectancy, 
autonomy and functional demands of older patients continue to grow. This is 
combined with surgical advances in bone reconstruction, especially in fragile 
patients. A distal humerus fracture in an older adult is a serious injury with 
an uncertain prognosis. In fact, damage to the elbow joint in this complex 
anatomical area overwhelmed by low quality bone occurs in patients who often 
have unfavorable characteristics (fragile skin, low physiological reserves, 
organ failure) combined with pharmaceutical treatments that can be iatrogenic. 
The treatment indication must not be based solely on the conventional 
radiographs used for classification purposes; the fracture and bone quality must 
be analyzed in three dimensions. Also, the surgeon must understand the patient's 
needs, worries and risks fully to decide between conservative treatment and 
anatomical locking plate fixation or elbow arthroplasty (hemi or total). In the 
end, the chosen treatment must allow at least 100° and preferably 120° of 
flexion-extension at the elbow. In this age range, the choice between 
arthroplasty and plate fixation is definitive; the surgical approach must make 
it possible to carry out either option, with arthroplasty implants available in 
case the trochlear fracture cannot be plated. The aim of this lecture is to 
provide a fresh perspective on the anatomy of the distal humerus, its fracture 
and the best surgical approaches, discuss how to decide on the indication, 
outline the safest and most reliable ways to reconstruct and stabilize the 
elbow, and lastly, summarize the expected outcomes and potential complications 
of each treatment option. Level of evidence V; Expert opinion.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otsr.2023.103759
PMID: 37992865


630. Pharmacol Res. 2023 Nov 21;198:107005. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2023.107005.
Online  ahead of print.

The Annexin-A1 mimetic RTP-026 promotes acute cardioprotection through 
modulation of immune cell activation.

Chen J(1), Oggero S(2), Cecconello C(2), Dalli J(1), Hayat H(2), Hjiej 
Andaloussi A(2), Sanni S(3), Jonassen TE(3), Perretti M(4).

Author information:
(1)William Harvey Research Institute, Queen Mary University of London, 
Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6BQ, United Kingdom; Centre for inflammation 
and Therapeutic Innovation, Queen Mary University of London, Charterhouse 
Square, London EC1M 6BQ, United Kingdom.
(2)William Harvey Research Institute, Queen Mary University of London, 
Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6BQ, United Kingdom.
(3)ResoTher Pharma A/S, Holte, Denmark.
(4)William Harvey Research Institute, Queen Mary University of London, 
Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6BQ, United Kingdom; Centre for inflammation 
and Therapeutic Innovation, Queen Mary University of London, Charterhouse 
Square, London EC1M 6BQ, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
m.perretti@qmul.ac.uk.

AIMS: The cardio-protective and immuno-regulatory properties of RTP-026, a 
synthetic peptide that spans the Annexin-A1 (AnxA1) N-terminal region, were 
tested in rat acute myocardial infarction.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In vitro, selective activation of formyl-peptide receptor 
type 2 (FPR2) by RTP-026 occurred with apparent EC50 in the 10-30 nM range. With 
human primary cells, RTP-026 counteracted extension of neutrophil life-span and 
augmented phagocytosis of fluorescent E.coli by blood myeloid cells. An in vivo 
model of rat acute infarction was used to quantify tissue injury and phenotype 
immune cells in myocardium and blood. The rat left anterior descending coronary 
artery was occluded and then reopened for 2-hour or 24-hour reperfusion. For the 
2-hour reperfusion protocol, RTP-026 (25-500 µg/kg; given i.v. at the start of 
reperfusion) significantly reduced infarct size by ∼50 %, with maximal efficacy 
at 50 µg/kg. Analyses of cardiac immune cells showed that RTP-026 reduced 
neutrophil and classical monocyte recruitment to the damaged heart. In the 
blood, RTP-026 (50 µg/kg) attenuated activation of neutrophils and monocytes 
monitored through CD62L and CD54 expression. Modulation of vascular inflammation 
by RTP-026 was demonstrated by reduction in plasma levels of mediators like 
TNF-α, IL-1β, KC, PGE2 and PGF2α⊡ For the 24-hour reperfusion protocol, RTP-026 
(30 µg/kg given i.v. at 0, 3 and 6 h reperfusion) reduced necrotic myocardium by 
∼40 %.
CONCLUSIONS: RTP-026 modulate immune cell responses and decreases infarct size 
of the heart in preclinical settings. Tempering over-exuberant immune cell 
activation by RTP-026 is a suitable approach to translate the biology of AnxA1 
for therapeutic purposes.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2023.107005
PMID: 37992916

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Mauro Perretti 
declares to be a shareholder of Antibe Therapeutics and ResoTher Pharma A/S and 
a director of William Harvey Research Limited; a scientific advisory board 
member for Antibe Therapeutics and SynAct Pharma Aps. Mauro Perretti and Jesmond 
Dalli are a co-inventor on a patent related to AnxA1 pro-resolving peptides 
(European Patent 3533457 B1). Thomas EN Jonassen is co-founder and shareholder 
of ResoTher Pharma A/S. Samra Sanni holds managerial position at ResoTher Pharma 
A/S. ResoTher Pharma A/S owns intellectual property rights on RTP-026.


631. Exp Gerontol. 2023 Nov 20:112333. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2023.112333. Online
ahead  of print.

Sex differences in frailty among older adults.

Zeidan RS(1), McElroy T(2), Rathor L(3), Martenson MS(4), Lin Y(5), Mankowski 
RT(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Aging, College of Medicine, University of 
Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States of America; Department of Health 
Outcomes and Biomedical Informatics, College of Medicine, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, United States of America. Electronic address: rzeidan@ufl.edu.
(2)Department of Physiology and Aging, College of Medicine, University of 
Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States of America; Department of Health 
Outcomes and Biomedical Informatics, College of Medicine, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, United States of America. Electronic address: 
t.mcelroy@ufl.edu.
(3)Department of Physiology and Aging, College of Medicine, University of 
Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States of America. Electronic address: 
l.rathor@ufl.edu.
(4)Department of Physiology and Aging, College of Medicine, University of 
Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States of America. Electronic address: 
sven715@ufl.edu.
(5)Department of Physiology and Aging, College of Medicine, University of 
Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States of America. Electronic address: 
yi.lin@ufl.edu.
(6)Department of Physiology and Aging, College of Medicine, University of 
Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States of America. Electronic address: 
r.mankowski@ufl.edu.

By definition, aging is a natural, gradual and continuous process. On the other 
hand, frailty reflects the increase in vulnerability to stressors and shortens 
the time without disease (health span) while longevity refers to the length of 
life (lifespan). The average life expectancy has significantly increased during 
the last few decades. A longer lifespan has been accompanied by an increase in 
frailty and decreased independence in older adults, with major differences 
existing between men and women. For example, women tend to live longer than men 
but also experience higher rates of frailty and disability. Sex differences 
prevent optimization of lifestyle interventions and therapies to effectively 
prevent frailty. Sex differences in frailty and aging are rooted in a complex 
interplay between uncontrollable (genetic, epigenetic, physiological), and 
controllable factors (psychosocial and lifestyle factors). Thus, understanding 
the underlying causes of sex differences in frailty and aging is essential for 
developing personalized interventions to promote healthy aging and improve 
quality of life in older men and women. In this review, we have discussed the 
key contributors and knowledge gaps related to sex differences in aging and 
frailty.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2023.112333
PMID: 37993077


632. BMC Public Health. 2023 Nov 22;23(1):2310. doi: 10.1186/s12889-023-17214-1.

Pre-pandemic trends and Black:White inequities in life expectancy across the 30 
most populous U.S. cities: a population-based study.

Silva A(1), Saiyed NS(2), Canty E(3), Benjamins MR(2).

Author information:
(1)Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health, Loyola University 
Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA. ASilva8@luc.edu.
(2)Sinai Urban Health Institute, Chicago, IL, USA.
(3)Parkinson School of Health Sciences and Public Health, Loyola University 
Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.

BACKGROUND: Racial inequities in life expectancy, driven by structural racism, 
have been documented at the state and county levels; however, less information 
is available at the city level where local policy change generally happens. 
Furthermore, an assessment of life expectancy during the decade preceding 
COVID-19 provides a point of comparison for life expectancy estimates and trends 
post COVID-19 as cities recover.
METHODS: Using National Vital Statistics System mortality data and American 
Community Survey population estimates, we calculated the average annual 
city-level life expectancies for the non-Hispanic Black (Black), non-Hispanic 
White (White), and total populations. We then calculated the absolute difference 
between the Black and White life expectancies for each of the 30 cities and the 
U.S. We analyzed trends over four time periods (2008-2010, 2011-2013, 2014-2016, 
and 2017-2019).
RESULTS: In 2017-2019, life expectancies ranged from 72.75 years in Detroit to 
83.15 years in San Francisco (compared to 78.29 years for the U.S.). Black life 
expectancy ranged from 69.94 years in Houston to 79.04 years in New York, while 
White life expectancy ranged from 75.18 years in Jacksonville to 86.42 years in 
Washington, DC. Between 2008-2010 and 2017-2019, 17 of the biggest cities 
experienced a statistically significant improvement in life expectancy, while 9 
cities experienced a significant decrease. Black life expectancy increased 
significantly in 14 cities and the U.S. but decreased significantly in 4 cities. 
White life expectancy increased significantly in 17 cities and the U.S. but 
decreased in 8 cities. In 2017-2019, the U.S. and all but one of the big cities 
had a significantly longer life expectancy for the White population compared to 
the Black population. There was more than a 13-year difference between Black and 
White life expectancies in Washington, DC (compared to 4.18 years at the 
national level). From 2008-2010 to 2017-2019, the racial gap decreased 
significantly for the U.S. and eight cities, while it increased in seven cities.
CONCLUSION: Urban stakeholders and equity advocates need data on mortality 
inequities that are aligned with city jurisdictions to help guide the allocation 
of resources and implementation of interventions.

© 2023. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the 
US; foreign copyright protection may apply.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-023-17214-1
PMCID: PMC10664538
PMID: 37993811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


633. BMC Oral Health. 2023 Nov 22;23(1):910. doi: 10.1186/s12903-023-03557-z.

Determinants of oral health status: an ecological study in Iran.

Tahani B(1), Baghban AA(2), Kazemian A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Public Health, Dental Research Center, Dental Research 
Institute, Dental School, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Proteomics Research Center, Department of Biostatistics, School of Allied 
Medical Sciences, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Community Oral Health, Faculty of Dentistry, Mashhad University 
of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. kazemiana@mums.ac.ir.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this ecological study was to assess the association 
between behavioral, social position, circumstance factors, and caries experience 
in 35- to 44-year-old adults in Iran at a provincial level.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The data from the 2011 Iranian Oral Health Survey were 
obtained from all 31 provinces across Iran on the population level. Oral health 
status was measured as the number of decayed, missing (MT), and filled (FT) 
teeth and the percentage of the population who were edentulous. Data were also 
gathered from each province on the percentage of smokers (Non-Communicable 
Diseases Risk Factors Surveillance Provincial Report 2009), per capita 
consumption of free sugars, concentration of fluoride in the drinking water 
(National and Sub-national Burden of Disease (NASBOD) Survey), number of 
dentists per 10,000 people, mean years of schooling of adults, expected years of 
schooling of children, life expectancy at birth and Gross National Income 
(Integrated Public Use Microdata Series, Global Data Lab). The data were 
analyzed using simple and multiple linear regression (α = 0.05).
RESULTS: Mean DMFT was positively associated with the percentage of smokers 
(B = 0.01 95%CI 0.01-0.14), and negatively with fluoride concentration (B =-2.6 
95%CI -4.3- -0.96). The edentulousness percentage was positively associated with 
smoking (B = 0.2 (with 95%CI: 0.07-0.37) and negatively with mean years of 
education (B =-1.08 (with 95%CI: -2.04- -0.12). DT was associated with expected 
years of schooling (B =-0.6 (with 95%CI: -1.07- -0.17), negatively. Mt was 
negatively associated with life expectancy (B =-0.5 (with 95%CI: -1.1- -0.007), 
fluoride concentration (B =-3.4 (with 95%CI: -4.5- -1.5) and number of dentists 
per 10,000 people (B =-0.4 (with 95%CI: -0.8- -0.01). Mean Years of Schooling 
(B = 0.5 (with 95%CI: 0.2-0.8) and number of dentists per 10,000 people (B 
=-0.62 (with 95%CI: 0.51 - 0.48) were positively in associated with FT.
CONCLUSIONS: The present findings indicate that there were differences in the 
oral health measures and their social determinants among the provinces of Iran. 
Regarding the limitations of the study especially the limitation of the number 
of independent variables, it seems, this discrepancy could be better explained 
by social variables of the provinces such as income than by environmental 
factors.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12903-023-03557-z
PMCID: PMC10666374
PMID: 37993816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests


634. BMC Public Health. 2023 Nov 22;23(1):2315. doi: 10.1186/s12889-023-17212-3.

Survey the effectiveness of education based on message framing through mobile 
phone on women's physical activity.

Shakerinejad G(1), Baji Z(2), Tehrani M(3), Jarvandi F(3), Cheraghi M(4), 
Hatamzadeh N(5).

Author information:
(1)Health Education Research Department, Academic Center for Education, Culture 
and Research (ACECR)- Khuzestan, Ahvaz, Iran. shakerinejad@yahoo.com.
(2)Health Education Research Department, Academic Center for Education, Culture 
and Research (ACECR)- Khuzestan, Ahvaz, Iran. zahrabaji65@yahoo.com.
(3)Health Education Research Department, Academic Center for Education, Culture 
and Research (ACECR)- Khuzestan, Ahvaz, Iran.
(4)Social Determinant of Health Center, Department of Public Health, school of 
Health, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.
(5)Health Education & Health Promotion Department, school of Health, Ahvaz 
Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Physical activity in female employees is a healthy behavior and 
increases strength, endurance, improves flexibility, improves the feeling of 
vitality and freshness, improves health, and ultimately increases life 
expectancy. Health messages are one of the most effective ways to engage people 
and motivate them to perform healthy behaviors. The purpose of this study was to 
the study of the effectiveness of education based on message framing through 
mobile phone (whatsapp) on the physical activity of women employees of 
universities and higher education institutions in Ahvaz city.
METHOD: In this interventional study, 90 of female employees of three 
universities and higher education institutions of Ahvaz city were selected by 
random sampling and randomly divided into three groups (30 participants) 
receiving gain framed messages, receiving loss framed messages and the control 
group. The tools of data collection were demographic information questionnaire 
and international physical activity questionnaire (IPAQ). The participants of 
the intervention groups received educational messages about physical activity 
behavior in two different gain and loss framed messages through whatsapp for one 
month. Data were collected from three groups at the beginning of the study, 
immediately and two months after the intervention, and were analyzed using SPSS 
version 26.
RESULTS: The results showed that there was a significant increase in the average 
physical activity score after the intervention in two interventional groups. by 
comparing the increase of this score, 53% improvement in physical activity is 
observed in the gain message group and 15% in loss massage group but there was 
no significant increase in the control group.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study showed that the design and implementation 
of education programs based on message framing, especially gain framed messages 
through online education (Whatsapp) can improve and promote physical activity 
behavior in women employees.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-023-17212-3
PMCID: PMC10666411
PMID: 37993818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


635. BMC Public Health. 2023 Nov 22;23(1):2313. doi: 10.1186/s12889-023-17156-8.

Gender-specific determinants of overweight and obesity among older adults in 
India: evidence from a cross-sectional survey, 2017-18.

Saha A(1), Mandal B(2), Muhammad T(3), Barman P(3), Ahmed W(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family & Generations, International Institute for Population 
Sciences, Mumbai, 400088, India. amiyasaha4444@gmail.com.
(2)School of Humanities and Social Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology, 
Indore, 453552, India.
(3)Department of Family & Generations, International Institute for Population 
Sciences, Mumbai, 400088, India.
(4)Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, 400088, India.

BACKGROUND: A major societal trend of the twenty-first century is the rapidly 
ageing population as a consequence of the decline in fertility and increase in 
life expectancy. Along with the rise in ageing population, the burden of obesity 
and related non-communicable diseases is also equally rising. In this study, we 
aimed to investigate the potential gender-specific determinants of overweight 
and obesity among older adults in India.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: The present study used data from the Longitudinal Ageing 
Study in India (LASI) wave 1 (2017-18). A total sample of 25,952 older adults 
(≥ 60 years) was selected for the study. Descriptive statistics, bivariate 
chi-square test, and logistic regression estimation were applied to accomplish 
the study objectives. Body mass index (BMI) has been classified in this study 
according to the WHO criteria.
RESULTS: The prevalence of overweight was higher among women (18.15% in rural 
areas and 46.62% in urban areas) compared to men (12.9% in rural areas and 
30.61% in urban areas). Similarly, obesity was higher among women than men who 
were residing in urban areas (17.07% vs. 5.37%), had secondary or above 
education (32.38% vs. 6.1%) belonged to richest strata (16.37% vs. 4.50%), or 
had mobility impairment (9.2% vs. 2.8%). Despite adjustment for several 
confounders, women were more likely to be overweight (OR: 2.18; CI: 1.86, 2.55) 
and obese (OR: 3.79; CI: 2.86, 5.03) than men. However, among both the elderly 
men and women, those who were highly educated were 2.29 times (OR: 2.29; CI: 
1.80, 4.11) and 2.71 times (OR: 2.71; CI: 1.78, 4.11), respectively more likely 
to be overweight than their illiterate counterparts. Older adults living in 
urban areas were more likely to suffer from obesity compared to rural men (OR: 
1.47; CI: 1.07, 2.02) and women (OR: 2.58; CI: 1.85, 3.60). Both men and women, 
who were highly educated were 2.64 times (OR: 2.64; CI: 1.71, 4.09) and 2.94 
times (OR: 2.94; CI: 1.40, 6.20), respectively, more likely to be obese than 
their illiterate counterparts. Older men and women who were richest (OR: 1.60; 
CI: 1.19, 2.14 & OR: 2.12; CI: 1.63,2.76), or had mobility impairment (OR: 1.33; 
CI: 1.09,1.61 & OR: 1.72; CI: 1.42,2.08) were more likely to be overweight than 
their counterparts who were poorest or did not have any mobility limitation, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This study found increased vulnerability of overweight and obesity 
among older women than men irrespective of their socioeconomic, demographic, and 
health status. The present study suggests that introducing preventative measures 
such as campaigns to encourage physical activity, and community awareness may 
help reduce the high burden of overweight and obesity. Finally, the findings are 
important for better functioning of any public health programme and suitable 
intervention techniques to maintain a healthy body in order to lower the 
prevalence and risk factors of non-communicable diseases in later life.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-023-17156-8
PMCID: PMC10664315
PMID: 37993827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


636. BMC Health Serv Res. 2023 Nov 23;23(1):1286. doi:
10.1186/s12913-023-10325-w.

An economic evaluation of pharmacopuncture versus usual care for chronic neck 
pain: a pragmatic randomized controlled trial.

Kim D(1), Kim ES(1), Song HJ(2), Park SY(3), Park KS(4), Lee YJ(1), Ha IH(5).

Author information:
(1)Jaseng Spine and Joint Research Institute, Jaseng Medical Foundation, 540, 
Gangnamdae-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, 06110, Republic of Korea.
(2)College of Pharmacy, University of Florida, 1225 Center Drive, Gainesville, 
Florida, FL, 32610, USA.
(3), VIAplus, 6th floor, 197 Kwongwang-ro, Paldal-gu, Suwon, Gyeonggi-do, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Jaseng Hospital of Korean Medicine, 536, Gangnam-daero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, 
06110, Republic of Korea.
(5)Jaseng Spine and Joint Research Institute, Jaseng Medical Foundation, 540, 
Gangnamdae-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, 06110, Republic of Korea. hanihata@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to evaluate the cost utility of pharmacopuncture in 
comparison with usual care for patients with chronic neck pain.
METHODS: A 12-week, multicenter, pragmatic randomized controlled trial was 
conducted, and 101 patients suffering from chronic neck pain for more than six 
months were randomly placed into the pharmacopuncture and usual care groups to 
receive four weeks of treatment and 12 weeks of follow-up observations. The 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) was calculated using EQ-5D and SF-6D. 
Concerning costs in 2019, a primary analysis was performed on societal 
perspective cost, and an additional analysis was performed on healthcare 
perspective cost.
RESULTS: Compared to usual care, pharmacopuncture was superior as it showed a 
slightly higher QALY and a lower incremental cost of $1,157 from a societal 
perspective. The probability that pharmacopuncture would be more cost-effective 
at a willingness-to-pay (WTP) of $26,374 was 100%. Pharmacopuncture was also 
superior from a healthcare perspective, with a lower incremental cost of $26. 
The probability that pharmacopuncture would be more cost-effective at a WTP of 
$26,374 was 83.7%.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, pharmacopuncture for chronic neck pain was found to be 
more cost-effective compared to usual care, implying that clinicians and policy 
makers should consider new treatment options for neck pain.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Number NCT04035018 (29/07/2019) Clinicaltrials.gov; Number 
KCT0004243 (26/08/2019) Clinical Research Information Service.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-023-10325-w
PMCID: PMC10666315
PMID: 37993844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


637. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2023 Nov 22;167:D7906.

[Managing multimorbidity is more than counting the number of conditions].

[Article in Dutch]

van Munster BC(1)(2), Burgers JS(3).

Author information:
(1)UMC Groningen, Universitair Centrum Ouderengeneeskunde, Groningen.
(2)Contact: Barbara C. van Munster (b.c.van.munster@umcg.nl).
(3)Universiteit Maastricht, Faculty of Health, Medicineand Life Sciences, 
Maastricht.

The prevalence of patients with multimorbidity, defined by two chronic 
conditions is rapidly increasing. Defining multimorbidity remains challenging, 
with varying criteria in research. A recent study by MacRae et al. examined the 
impact of the number and selection of conditions on estimated multimorbidity 
prevalence, revealing significant variations from 4.6% to 40.5%. To standardize 
the definition for research, MacRae et al. recommend using three measurement 
instruments (Ho always + usually, Barnett, or Fortin condition-lists) to 
consistently measure prevalence over time. Multimorbidity's complexity is not 
adequately captured by dichotomous definitions, as this depends on context and 
purpose. Chronic diseases profoundly affect daily life, leading to reduced 
physical function and adverse psychosocial outcomes. Patients often experience 
increased stress, anxiety, and depression, which can further exacerbate somatic 
conditions. To assess multimorbidity from a patient perspective, considering 
experienced health and quality of life indicators like ADL functioning, 
mobility, mood, memory, and social factors is crucial. Effectively managing 
multimorbidity requires a holistic, tailored approach, including identifying and 
prioritizing key health issues, promoting self-management, proactive care 
planning, and coordinating treatments. Understanding the potential for 
differential treatment effects and considering individual life expectancy is 
vital. Multimorbidity also places a significant burden on healthcare systems, 
leading to fragmented care, communication gaps, and increased costs. Identifying 
complex disease clusters with high mortality and resource utilization can guide 
integrated care efforts. In less complex cases, primary care physicians can 
collaborate to provide comprehensive care. Multimorbidity remains a priority in 
healthcare, necessitating appropriate measurement and tailored interventions for 
diverse populations.

PMID: 37994714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. J Infect Public Health. 2023 Nov 11;17(1):119-121. doi: 
10.1016/j.jiph.2023.11.016. Online ahead of print.

Life-expectancy changes from 2019 to 22: A case study of Japan using provisional 
death count.

Munira MS(1), Okada Y(1), Nishiura H(2).

Author information:
(1)Kyoto University School of Public Health, Yoshida-Konoe-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 
City 6068501, Japan.
(2)Kyoto University School of Public Health, Yoshida-Konoe-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 
City 6068501, Japan. Electronic address: nishiura.hiroshi.5r@kyoto-u.ac.jp.

Many countries struggled with suppressing the incidence of COVID-19 caused by 
SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant (B.1.1.529). As the epidemic size of COVID-19 in 2022 
became bigger than earlier years in Japan, the present study aimed to estimate 
life expectancy at birth at the end of 2022, using provisional death datasets in 
Aichi and Fukui prefectures. We collected monthly death count from 2019 to the 
end of 2022, computing the period life table. While the life expectancy at birth 
in Aichi, 2019 was 84.6 years, it was very slightly extended to 84.7 years in 
2020 and 2021, followed by a shortening for nearly 0.4 years in 2022. In Fukui, 
monotonous extension pattern was seen, i.e., 85.5 years in 2019, 85.6 in 2020, 
followed by 85.8 and 86.2 years in 2021 and 2022, respectively. Although 
decades-long trend of extending life expectancy at birth was partly discontinued 
from 2020 due to the pandemic at the national level, we have shown that the 
pandemic impact was still small in Japan by the end of 2022. First Omicron wave 
occurred shortly after primary series vaccination, and even real time booster 
program was underway during that wave. Different demographic consequences 
between Aichi and Fukui are explained by differential epidemic sizes prior to 
vaccination.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jiph.2023.11.016
PMID: 37995557

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


639. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2023 Nov 21:S1078-5884(23)00946-2. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2023.11.018. Online ahead of print.

External Validation of a Prognostic Model for Survival of Patients With 
Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms Treated With Endovascular Aneurysm Repair.

Dabravolskaité V(1), Aweys MM(2), Venermo M(3), Hakovirta H(4), Mufty H(5), 
Zimmermann A(3), Makaloski V(6), Meuli L(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of vascular surgery, University of Bern, Inselspital, Bern, 
Switzerland; Department of vascular surgery, University of Turku, Finland.
(2)Department of Vascular Surgery, University of Helsinki and Helsinki 
University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
(3)Department of vascular surgery, University of Zurich, Switzerland.
(4)Department of vascular surgery, University of Turku, Finland.
(5)Department of Vascular Surgery, Leuven University Hospital, Belgium.
(6)Department of vascular surgery, University of Bern, Inselspital, Bern, 
Switzerland.
(7)Department of vascular surgery, University of Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic 
address: lorenz.meuli@usz.ch.

OBJECTIVE: Current guidelines recommend diameter monitoring of small and 
asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) due to the low risk of rupture. 
Elective AAA repair is recommended for diameters ≥ 5.5 cm in men and ≥ 5.0 cm in 
women. However, data supporting the efficacy of elective treatment for all 
patients above these thresholds are diverging. For a subgroup of patients, life 
expectancy might be very short, and elective AAA repair at the current threshold 
may not be justified. This study aimed to externally validate a predictive model 
for survival of patients with asymptomatic AAA treated with endovascular 
aneurysm repair (EVAR).
METHODS: This was a multicentre international retrospective observational cohort 
