often becomes dependent on family caregivers. Managing care demands at the end 
of life that are brought on by rapid disease progression has a negative impact 
on caregiver quality of life. The purpose of this integrative review is to 
highlight the gaps in the existing body of research on the effect of 
neuropalliative care on quality of life of this caregiver population. A total of 
13 articles met inclusion criteria and were selected for review. The most 
frequently occurring themes and findings in the literature shed light on 
neuropalliative care and provided some insight into both caregivers and 
patients' perspective at the end of life. What sets this population apart from 
caregivers and patients of other terminal diseases is the nature of disease 
progression and the rapid life adjustments that come along with it. Integration 
of neuropalliative has shown to provide additional support for caregivers and 
patients; however, it remains underused. To promote equitable access to these 
services, it is necessary to address several structural barriers.

Copyright © 2023 by The Hospice and Palliative Nurses Association. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/NJH.0000000000000997
PMID: 37982655

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


588. Eur Radiol. 2023 Nov 20. doi: 10.1007/s00330-023-10420-w. Online ahead of
print.

Long-term cardiotoxicity in germ cell cancer survivors after platinum-based 
chemotherapy: cardiac MR shows impaired systolic function and tissue 
alterations.

Beitzen-Heineke A(1), Rolling CC(2), Seidel C(2), Erley J(3), Molwitz I(3), 
Muellerleile K(4), Saering D(5), Senftinger J(4), Börschel N(2), Engel NW(2), 
Bokemeyer C(2), Adam G(3), Tahir E(#)(3), Chen H(#)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department for Oncology, Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation with the 
Section of Pneumology, University Medical Center Hamburg Eppendorf, Martinistr. 
52, 20246, Hamburg, Germany. a.beitzen-heineke@uke.de.
(2)Department for Oncology, Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation with the 
Section of Pneumology, University Medical Center Hamburg Eppendorf, Martinistr. 
52, 20246, Hamburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, 
University Hospital Hamburg Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(4)Department of General and Interventional Cardiology, University Heart and 
Vascular Center Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany.
(5)Information Technology and Image Processing, University of Applied Sciences 
Wedel, Wedel, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Eur Radiol. 2023 Nov 22;:

OBJECTIVES: Long-term toxicities of germ cell cancer (GCC) treatment are of 
particular importance in young men with a life expectancy of several decades 
after curative treatment. This study aimed to investigate the long-term effects 
of platinum-based chemotherapy on cardiac function and myocardial tissue in GCC 
survivors by cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging.
METHODS: Asymptomatic GCC survivors ≥ 3 years after platinum-based chemotherapy 
and age-matched healthy controls underwent CMR assessment, including left 
ventricular (LV) and right ventricular (RV) ejection fraction (EF), strain 
analysis, late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) imaging, and T1/T2 mapping.
RESULTS: Forty-four survivors (age 44 [interquartile range, IQR 37-52] years; 
follow-up time 10 [IQR 5-15] years after chemotherapy) and 21 controls were 
evaluated. LV- and RVEF were lower in GCC survivors compared to controls (LVEF 
56 ± 5% vs. 59 ± 5%, p = 0.017; RVEF 50 ± 7% vs. 55 ± 7%, p = 0.008). Seven 
percent (3/44) of survivors showed reduced LVEF (< 50%), and 41% (18/44) showed 
borderline LVEF (50-54%). The strain analysis revealed significantly reduced 
deformation compared to controls (LV global longitudinal strain [GLS] -13 ± 2% 
vs. -15 ± 1%, p < 0.001; RV GLS -15 ± 4% vs. -19 ± 4%, p = 0.005). Tissue 
characterization revealed focal myocardial fibrosis in 9 survivors (20%) and 
lower myocardial native T1 times in survivors compared to controls (1202 ± 25 ms 
vs. 1226 ± 37 ms, p = 0.016). Attenuated LVEF was observed after two cycles of 
platinum-based chemotherapy (54 ± 5% vs. 62 ± 5%, p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Based on CMR evaluation, combination chemotherapy with cumulative 
cisplatin ≥ 200 mg/m2 is associated with attenuated biventricular systolic 
function and myocardial tissue alterations in asymptomatic long-term GCC 
survivors.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE STATEMENT: Platinum-based chemotherapy is associated with 
decreased systolic function, non-ischemic focal myocardial scar, and decreased 
T1 times in asymptomatic long-term germ cell cancer survivors. Clinicians should 
be particularly aware of the risk of cardiac toxicity after platinum-based 
chemotherapy.
KEY POINTS: • Platinum-based chemotherapy is associated with attenuation of 
biventricular systolic function, lower myocardial T1 relaxation times, and 
non-ischemic late gadolinium enhancement. • Decreased systolic function and 
non-ischemic late gadolinium enhancement are associated with a cumulative 
cisplatin dose of  ≥ 200 mg/m2. • Cardiac MRI can help to identify 
chemotherapy-associated changes in cardiac function and tissue in asymptomatic 
long-term germ cell cancer survivors.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00330-023-10420-w
PMID: 37982836


589. Discov Ment Health. 2023 Oct 16;3(1):20. doi: 10.1007/s44192-023-00046-1.

Factors associated with quality of life for cystic fibrosis family caregivers.

Nesser W(1), Snyder S(2), Driscoll KA(3), Modi AC(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Clinical and Educational Sciences, Indiana State 
University, 401 N. 7th Street, Room 302B, Terre Haute, IN, 47809, USA. 
whitney.nesser@indstate.edu.
(2)School of Education, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, 
USA.
(3)Department of Clinical and Health Psychology, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, USA.
(4)Center for Adherence and Self-Management, Cincinnati Children's Hospital 
Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA.

Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is a genetic and chronic disease affecting 32,100 people in 
the United States as of 2021, with a life expectancy of 56 years for people with 
CF (PwCF) born between 2018 and 2022. While there is extensive literature about 
cystic fibrosis, there are few studies examining the complexity and challenges 
experienced by family caregivers for PwCF. The aim of this study was to examine 
the Caregiver Quality of Life Cystic Fibrosis (CQOLCF) scale using data 
(N = 217) from two separate studies that used the scale to determine if its 
items represent multiple factors relevant to CF family caregiver QoL. Factor 
analysis was conducted on the Seven distinct factors were found with analysis of 
the CQOLCF. Factors were Existential Dread (12%), Burden (11%), Strain (7%), 
Support (7%), Positivity (6%), Finance (5%) and Guilt (3%). Study findings 
indicated it is important for healthcare providers and researchers who use the 
CQOLCF to be knowledgeable and aware of the multiple factors associated with 
quality of life in this population in addition to an overall quality of life 
score.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s44192-023-00046-1
PMCID: PMC10579194
PMID: 37982907

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant financial or 
non-financial interests to disclose.


590. Cardiovasc Toxicol. 2023 Nov 20. doi: 10.1007/s12012-023-09815-4. Online
ahead  of print.

Human Immunodeficiency Virus as a Risk Factor for Cardiovascular Disease.

Lembas A(1)(2), Załęski A(3)(4), Peller M(5), Mikuła T(1)(2), Wiercińska-Drapało 
A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious and Tropical Diseases and Hepatology, Medical 
University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Hospital for Infectious Diseases, Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Department of Infectious and Tropical Diseases and Hepatology, Medical 
University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland. andrzejzaleski84@wp.pl.
(4)Hospital for Infectious Diseases, Warsaw, Poland. andrzejzaleski84@wp.pl.
(5)1st Department of Cardiology, Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.

The developments in HIV treatments have increased the life expectancy of people 
living with HIV (PLWH), a situation that makes cardiovascular disease (CVD) in 
that population as relevant as ever. PLWH are at increased risk of CVD, and our 
understanding of the underlying mechanisms is continually increasing. HIV 
infection is associated with elevated levels of multiple proinflammatory 
molecules, including IL-6, IL-1β, VCAM-1, ICAM-1, TNF-α, TGF-β, osteopontin, 
sCD14, hs-CRP, and D-dimer. Other currently examined mechanisms include 
CD4 + lymphocyte depletion, increased intestinal permeability, microbial 
translocation, and altered cholesterol metabolism. Antiretroviral therapy (ART) 
leads to decreases in the concentrations of the majority of proinflammatory 
molecules, although most remain higher than in the general population. Moreover, 
adverse effects of ART also play an important role in increased CVD risk, 
especially in the era of rapid advancement of new therapeutical options. 
Nevertheless, it is currently believed that HIV plays a more significant role in 
the development of metabolic syndromes than treatment-associated factors. PLWH 
being more prone to develop CVD is also due to the higher prevalence of smoking 
and chronic coinfections with viruses such as HCV and HBV. For these reasons, it 
is crucial to consider HIV a possible causal factor in CVD occurrence, 
especially among young patients or individuals without common CVD risk factors.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12012-023-09815-4
PMID: 37982976


591. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2023 Nov 20;11(11):CD010966. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD010966.pub4.

Corrector therapies (with or without potentiators) for people with cystic 
fibrosis with class II CFTR gene variants (most commonly F508del).

Heneghan M(1), Southern KW(1), Murphy J(2), Sinha IP(1), Nevitt SJ(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Women's and Children's Health, University of Liverpool, 
Liverpool, UK.
(2)Leighton Hospital, Crewe, UK.
(3)Department of Health Data Science, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
(4)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, York, UK.

Update of
    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD010966.pub3.

BACKGROUND: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a common life-shortening genetic condition 
caused by a variant in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator 
(CFTR) protein. A class II CFTR variant F508del is the commonest CF-causing 
variant (found in up to 90% of people with CF (pwCF)). The F508del variant lacks 
meaningful CFTR function - faulty protein is degraded before reaching the cell 
membrane, where it needs to be to effect transepithelial salt transport. 
Corrective therapy could benefit many pwCF. This review evaluates single 
correctors (monotherapy) and any combination of correctors (most commonly 
lumacaftor, tezacaftor, elexacaftor, VX-659, VX-440 or VX-152) and a potentiator 
(e.g. ivacaftor) (dual and triple therapies).
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effects of CFTR correctors (with or without 
potentiators) on clinically important benefits and harms in pwCF of any age with 
class II CFTR mutations (most commonly F508del).
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane CF Trials Register (28 November 2022), 
reference lists of relevant articles and online trials registries (3 December 
2022).
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) (parallel design) 
comparing CFTR correctors to control in pwCF with class II mutations.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently extracted data, assessed 
risk of bias and judged evidence certainty (GRADE); we contacted investigators 
for additional data.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 34 RCTs (4781 participants), lasting between 1 day and 
48 weeks; an extension of two lumacaftor-ivacaftor studies provided additional 
96-week safety data (1029 participants). We assessed eight monotherapy RCTs (344 
participants) (4PBA, CPX, lumacaftor, cavosonstat and FDL169), 16 dual-therapy 
RCTs (2627 participants) (lumacaftor-ivacaftor or tezacaftor-ivacaftor) and 11 
triple-therapy RCTs (1804 participants) 
(elexacaftor-tezacaftor-ivacaftor/deutivacaftor; 
VX-659-tezacaftor-ivacaftor/deutivacaftor; VX-440-tezacaftor-ivacaftor; 
VX-152-tezacaftor-ivacaftor). Participants in 21 RCTs had the genotype 
F508del/F508del, in seven RCTs they had F508del/minimal function (MF), in one 
RCT F508del/gating genotypes, in one RCT either F508del/F508del genotypes or 
F508del/residual function genotypes, in one RCT either F508del/gating or 
F508del/residual function genotypes, and in three RCTs either F508del/F508del 
genotypes or F508del/MF genotypes. Risk of bias judgements varied across 
different comparisons. Results from 16 RCTs may not be applicable to all pwCF 
due to age limits (e.g. adults only) or non-standard designs (converting from 
monotherapy to combination therapy). Monotherapy Investigators reported no 
deaths or clinically relevant improvements in quality of life (QoL). There was 
insufficient evidence to determine effects on lung function. No 
placebo-controlled monotherapy RCT demonstrated differences in mild, moderate or 
severe adverse effects (AEs); the clinical relevance of these events is 
difficult to assess due to their variety and few participants (all 
F508del/F508del). Dual therapy In a tezacaftor-ivacaftor group there was one 
death (deemed unrelated to the study drug). QoL scores (respiratory domain) 
favoured both lumacaftor-ivacaftor and tezacaftor-ivacaftor therapy compared to 
placebo at all time points (moderate-certainty evidence). At six months, 
relative change in forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) % predicted 
improved with all dual combination therapies compared to placebo (high- to 
moderate-certainty evidence). More pwCF reported early transient breathlessness 
with lumacaftor-ivacaftor (odds ratio (OR) 2.05, 99% confidence interval (CI) 
1.10 to 3.83; I2 = 0%; 2 studies, 739 participants; high-certainty evidence). 
Over 120 weeks (initial study period and follow-up), systolic blood pressure 
rose by 5.1 mmHg and diastolic blood pressure by 4.1 mmHg with twice-daily 400 
mg lumacaftor-ivacaftor (80 participants). The tezacaftor-ivacaftor RCTs did not 
report these adverse effects. Pulmonary exacerbation rates decreased in pwCF 
receiving additional therapies to ivacaftor compared to placebo (all 
moderate-certainty evidence): lumacaftor 600 mg (hazard ratio (HR) 0.70, 95% CI 
0.57 to 0.87; I2 = 0%; 2 studies, 739 participants); lumacaftor 400 mg (HR 0.61, 
95% CI 0.49 to 0.76; I2 = 0%; 2 studies, 740 participants); and tezacaftor (HR 
0.64, 95% CI 0.46 to 0.89; 1 study, 506 participants). Triple therapy No study 
reported any deaths (high-certainty evidence). All other evidence was low- to 
moderate-certainty. QoL respiratory domain scores probably improved with triple 
therapy compared to control at six months (six studies). There was probably a 
greater relative and absolute change in FEV1 % predicted with triple therapy 
(four studies each across all combinations). The absolute change in FEV1 % 
predicted was probably greater for F508del/MF participants taking 
elexacaftor-tezacaftor-ivacaftor compared to placebo (mean difference 14.30, 95% 
CI 12.76 to 15.84; 1 study, 403 participants; moderate-certainty evidence), with 
similar results for other drug combinations and genotypes. There was little or 
no difference in adverse events between triple therapy and control (10 studies). 
No study reported time to next pulmonary exacerbation, but fewer F508del/F508del 
participants experienced a pulmonary exacerbation with 
elexacaftor-tezacaftor-ivacaftor at four weeks (OR 0.17, 99% CI 0.06 to 0.45; 1 
study, 175 participants) and 24 weeks (OR 0.29, 95% CI 0.14 to 0.60; 1 study, 
405 participants); similar results were seen across other triple therapy and 
genotype combinations.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is insufficient evidence of clinically important 
effects from corrector monotherapy in pwCF with F508del/F508del. Additional data 
in this review reduced the evidence for efficacy of dual therapy; these agents 
can no longer be considered as standard therapy. Their use may be appropriate in 
exceptional circumstances (e.g. if triple therapy is not tolerated or due to 
age). Both dual therapies (lumacaftor-ivacaftor, tezacaftor-ivacaftor) result in 
similar small improvements in QoL and respiratory function with lower pulmonary 
exacerbation rates. While the effect sizes for QoL and FEV1 still favour 
treatment, they have reduced compared to our previous findings. 
Lumacaftor-ivacaftor was associated with an increase in early transient 
shortness of breath and longer-term increases in blood pressure (not observed 
for tezacaftor-ivacaftor). Tezacaftor-ivacaftor has a better safety profile, 
although data are lacking in children under 12 years. In this population, 
lumacaftor-ivacaftor had an important impact on respiratory function with no 
apparent immediate safety concerns, but this should be balanced against the 
blood pressure increase and shortness of breath seen in longer-term adult data 
when considering lumacaftor-ivacaftor. Data from triple therapy trials 
demonstrate improvements in several key outcomes, including FEV1 and QoL. There 
is probably little or no difference in adverse events for triple therapy 
(elexacaftor-tezacaftor-ivacaftor/deutivacaftor; 
VX-659-tezacaftor-ivacaftor/deutivacaftor; VX-440-tezacaftor-ivacaftor; 
VX-152-tezacaftor-ivacaftor) in pwCF with one or two F508del variants aged 12 
years or older (moderate-certainty evidence). Further RCTs are required in 
children under 12 years and those with more severe lung disease.

Copyright © 2023 The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD010966.pub4
PMCID: PMC10659105
PMID: 37983082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Matthew Heneghan declares no potential conflict 
of interest. Professor Kevin Southern declares no potential conflict of 
interest. Dr Jared Murphy declares no potential conflict of interest. Dr Ian 
Sinha is in receipt of a NIHR HTA grant for paediatric asthma and is a member of 
the NICE asthma committee; however, neither of these are related to cystic 
fibrosis or this review and thus do not constitute a potential conflict of 
interest. Dr Sarah J Nevitt declares no potential conflict of interest.


592. PLoS One. 2023 Nov 20;18(11):e0294457. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0294457. 
eCollection 2023.

Authentication of Allium ulleungense, A. microdictyon and A. ochotense based on 
super-barcoding of plastid genome and 45S nrDNA.

Lee M(1), Lee HY(2), Kang JS(1), Lee H(1), Park KJ(2), Park JY(1), Yang TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agriculture, Plant Genomics & Breeding Institute, Research 
Institute of Agriculture and Life Science, Forestry and Bioresources, College of 
Agriculture & Life Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Gangwondo State Agricultural Research & Extension Services, Wild Vegetable 
Research Institute, Pyeongchang-gun, Gangwon State, Republic of Korea.

Allium ulleungense (AU) and A. microdictyon (AM) are valuable medicinal and 
edible vegetables, referred to as mountain garlic in Korea. The identification 
of AU, AM and a neighboring species A. ochotense (AO) is difficult because of 
their morphological similarities. We collected samples from three species and 46 
cultivated collections to understand the genetic diversity of these valuable 
Allium species. Among them, we sequenced six collections, including three 
species and three cultivating collections to obtain data from the plastid genome 
(plastome) and nuclear 45S ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) for super-barcoding. The AM and 
AO showed around 60 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 39 
Insertion/Deletion (InDels) in the plastome but no variations in the nrDNA 
sequences. Conversely, the AU and AM showed more than 170 SNPs and 80 InDels in 
the plastomes, and 20 SNPs and 1 InDel were found in the 45S nrDNA sequences. 
Among the three cultivating collections, one TB collection was determined to be 
the AU type in both plastome and nrDNA sequences. However, the other two 
collections, JB and SA, showed the AM type plastome but were heterozygous in the 
45S nrDNA sequences, indicating both AU and AM types (putative AM x AU hybrid). 
Ten molecular markers were developed based on sequence variations to identify 
these three species and assess their genetic diversity. A total of 49 
collections were genotyped using the ten developed markers and classified into 
five groups: 14 AU, 22 AM, 1 AO, 3 putative AM x AU hybrids, and 9 putative AU x 
AM hybrid collections. Super-barcoding with plastomes and nrDNAs revealed the 
genetic diversity of the three Allium species and putative hybrids between 
species. The newly developed markers will facilitate species and hybrid 
identification, thereby benefiting marker-assisted molecular breeding of Allium 
species.

Copyright: © 2023 Lee et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0294457
PMCID: PMC10659177
PMID: 37983242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


593. Artificial Urinary Sphincters and Adjustable Dual-Balloon Continence Therapy
in  Men.

Klock JA(1), Palacios AR(2), Leslie SW(3), Feloney MP(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Nov 2.

Author information:
(1)Cleveland Clinic Foundation
(2)Creighton University
(3)Creighton University School of Medicine

Guidelines from the American Urological Association (AUA) indicate that patients 
with persistent or severe urinary incontinence may benefit from surgical 
intervention. Continence surgery should only be offered if the urinary 
incontinence is sufficiently bothersome despite conservative therapy. 
Post-prostatectomy incontinence is the most common cause of severe, intractable 
urinary leakage in men, with a reported occurrence of 4% to 69%, depending on 
the definition used. The primary etiology of post-prostatectomy urinary 
incontinence is damage or injury to the external urethral sphincter with 
resulting intrinsic sphincteric deficiency. Incontinence symptoms can improve 
with postoperative pelvic floor physical therapy and lifestyle changes; 
most improvements are seen within 1 to 2 years following surgery. A study 
reported that 8.4% of men still experienced severe incontinence 18 months after 
surgery. The current surgical standard for post-prostatectomy urinary 
incontinence is an artificial urinary sphincter (AUS), but other options, such 
as a urethral sling or dual-balloon adjustable continence therapy (DBACT), are 
available. Surgical intervention may be considered as early as 6 
months after prostatectomy if the incontinence is severe and should be offered 
no sooner than 1 year after prostate surgery if the incontinence is moderate.  
Artificial Urinary Sphincter The artificial urinary sphincter (AUS) has been 
considered the gold standard treatment for stress urinary incontinence since it 
was first approved in the United States in 1972. The AUS is an active system 
comprising an occlusive constricting cuff, a control pump, and a 
pressure-regulating balloon reservoir. These parts are connected by 
kink-resistant tubing, creating a closed system. The AUS promotes urinary 
continence via circumferential compression of the urethra. A fluid-filled 
silicone-elastomer cuff achieves dryness through urethral constriction, 
permitting micturition through a manually operated scrotal implanted pump that 
transfers fluid from the compression cuff into the pressure-regulating balloon 
reservoir. After voiding, the compression cuff automatically refills within 3 to 
5 minutes to restore cuff compression and continence. The AUS is available 
worldwide to treat severe, intractable urinary incontinence in women and is 
approved for that purpose in the United States; that discussion is beyond the 
scope of this activity. AUS placement for severe, intractable intrinsic 
sphincter deficiency in women is infrequently performed in the US but more 
commonly so in Europe. The surgical approach is usually transabdominal, and the 
cuff is placed at the bladder neck; good long-term success rates are reported. 
The average life expectancy of an AUS is 10 years. AUS devices are compatible 
with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); image quality around the device may be 
compromised. Currently, AUS devices are made and marketed by only one 
manufacturer in the United States: Boston Scientific Corp., formerly American 
Medical Systems. AUS devices sold in the United States and most Western 
countries have an antibiotic coating of rifampicin and minocycline, offering 
substantial gram-positive bactericidal activity. Dual-Balloon Adjustable 
Continence Therapy Dual-balloon adjustable continence therapy (DBACT) utilizes 2 
periurethral silicon balloons implanted percutaneously on either side of the 
urethra just distal to the bladder neck. These balloons increase passive 
urethral compression and improve bladder outlet resistance. A titanium port 
connected to the balloons via a silicon conduit in the scrotum allows 
office-based volume adjustments to the implanted balloons as needed.  DBACT 
placement is considered minimally invasive surgery and is easily reversible; the 
devices can be removed in the clinic with simple surgical instruments using only 
a local anesthetic. DBACT is MRI-compatible and is currently made by one 
manufacturer in the United States: UroMedica, Inc. While DBACT is available in 
Europe and South America for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence in 
women and men, the device is not approved for use in women in the United 
States. 

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 37983344

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Julie Klock declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Arnold Palacios 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. 
Disclosure: Stephen Leslie declares no relevant financial relationships with 
ineligible companies. Disclosure: Michael Feloney declares no relevant financial 
relationships with ineligible companies.


594. Anti-Inflammatory Diets.

Scheiber A(1), Mank V(1).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Oct 28.

Author information:
(1)Tripler Army Medical Center

The average human life expectancy has more than doubled in the last 150 years 
worldwide; much of this increase is attributed to the rapidly advancing practice 
of medicine. As general medical knowledge and treatments expand and improve, 
many once lethal diseases are now treatable or have been eradicated, and disease 
prevalence has shifted away from acute, communicable processes. The chronic 
inflammatory state significantly contributes to the development and progression 
of many noncommunicable disease processes, including cancer, cardiovascular 
disease, and neurocognitive decline. The inflammatory response is crucial to 
human survival. Inflammation is a normal and vital responsive process to 
internal injury and many external assaults, including foreign substances or 
trauma. When regulated appropriately, the inflammatory response facilitates the 
eradication of the invader, tissue repair, and a return to homeostasis.  
Inflammation may be acute or chronic. The acute inflammatory response begins 
within minutes to hours, lasts for hours to days, and is typically initiated by 
tissue-resident macrophages and dendritic cells. In response to a stimulus 
perceived as harmful, these cells release a cascade of proinflammatory 
cytokines, chemokines, and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). The acute inflammatory 
process is characterized by three main phases: enhanced blood flow to the target 
area via dilation of small vessels, increased vascular permeability, and 
phagocytic leukocyte migration into the affected tissue. An effective acute 
inflammatory response eradicates foreign pathogens or necrotic cells, followed 
by the repair of the host tissue. However, leukocytes are important causes of 
injury to normal cells and tissues during a normal inflammatory response. If the 
acute inflammatory response cannot resolve normally because of persistent tissue 
injury or dysregulation of normal processes, chronic inflammation will ensue. 
Chronic inflammation may occur in a tissue when an inflammatory process is 
activated by an overabundance of triggering factors, such as free radicals, 
oxidative stress, or foreign pathogens. With repeated stimulus from the 
triggering factor, an unregulated inflammatory response can be initiated, 
causing chronic local or systemic organ damage. Chronic inflammation is 
characterized by continued proinflammatory processes being unchecked by 
anti-inflammatory processes. The presentation of chronic inflammation will vary 
with the affected tissue and the injurious agent. Atherosclerosis is a form of 
chronic inflammation within the arterial vasculature that underlies the 
pathogenesis of peripheral, cerebral, and coronary vascular disease, 
predisposing to limb ischemia, stroke, and myocardial infarction. Cardiovascular 
disease is the most common underlying cause of death in the United States. 
Atherosclerosis is considered to be a chronic inflammatory response within the 
arterial wall to ongoing endothelial injury. As part of a complex response to 
injury, macrophages accumulate within the vessel wall, are chronically activated 
to release proinflammatory cytokines, recruit other inflammatory cells to the 
area, exert a catabolic effect on fibrous atheromatous plaques, and increase the 
overall risk of plaque rupture and thrombosis. Cancer is another complex disease 
state characterized by a chronic inflammatory response. Cancer cells express 
antigens that may be recognized by the human immune system, thereby upregulating 
proinflammatory cytokines and mediators and the ongoing activation of immune 
cells. Cancer cells also frequently undergo necrosis, which promotes a 
continuous influx of leukocytes to the tumor. However, cancer cells also possess 
the ability to evade the normal immune system while promoting immune responses 
that support tumor growth. This dysregulated and dysfunctional chronic 
inflammatory promotes the progression of the malignancy. An unregulated 
inflammatory response also significantly negatively affects neurocognitive 
function. The blood-brain barrier is a bidirectional communication system 
between the innate immune system of the brain and the peripheral immune system 
and was initially thought to be an insulator against peripheral 
inflammation. However, increased peripheral immune system activity chronically 
activates the specialized macrophages of the brain parenchyma known as 
microglia, promoting a blood-brain barrier breakdown. This breakdown may allow 
peripheral inflammatory mediators to enter the central nervous system, 
increasing neuroinflammation and the risk of neurocognitive diseases.  Chronic 
inflammation contributes to the risk of disease development and progression to 
some degree. While not completely understood, this process has encouraged 
healthcare practitioners to include the reduction of inflammation in 
preventative and treatment planning. Clinicians, particularly primary care 
practitioners, are uniquely poised to offer various modalities of inflammatory 
reduction, including adherence to an anti-inflammatory diet.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 37983365

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Alexander Scheiber declares no 
relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Victoria 
Mank declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


595. J Adv Nurs. 2023 Nov 20. doi: 10.1111/jan.15942. Online ahead of print.

Informal caregivers' experiences of transitioning during end-of-life care-A 
scoping review.

McCarthy B(1), Timmins F(1), Eustace-Cook J(2), Connolly M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Midwifery and Health Systems, University College Dublin, 
Bellfield, County Dublin, Ireland.
(2)Research Support Librarian, Trinity College, Dublin 2, Ireland.

BACKGROUND: Dying well at home usually requires the help and assistance of an 
informal caregiver. This role is usually unpaid, wide-ranging and oftentimes 
demanding. From diagnosis to death of a loved one, informal caregivers can 
experience one and frequently numerous transitions, however, little is known 
about this process. The purpose of this scoping review is to chart, explore and 
understand caregivers' experiences of transitioning when providing end-of-life 
care. A preliminary search of the literature indicated a paucity of research 
highlighting a notable absence of caregiver's perspectives and acknowledgements 
of the support they need to ensure successful transitions during this time. 
Consequently, this review has the potential to make a valuable contribution to 
the literature.
METHODS: Arksey and O'Malley's (2005) framework, further enhanced by Levac 
et al. (2010) and Peters et al. (2020) was used to conduct this scoping review. 
The Extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) guided reporting. A systematic 
search of the databases PUBMED, PsychINFO, CINAHL, EMBASE, and Web of Science 
and a selection of grey literature was undertaken from the year 1990 to date by 
two researchers. Titles and abstracts of the literature identified were screened 
and finally, a narrative synthesis of 11 articles was undertaken to answer the 
following research question: What is known from the literature about informal 
caregivers' transitions when caring for a dying person in the home?
CONCLUSIONS: Current knowledge on this topic is limited; however, from this 
review, two main themes were identified: 'Challenges arising during 
transitioning' with subthemes of burden of care and fading away. The second 
theme 'Coping strategies' comprised subthemes of meaning-making, seeking 
normality and hope. This evidence may support the development of transitional 
care interventions in the future and improve patient and caregiver outcome 
measures and experiences to inform a larger research study exploring this 
phenomenon.
PATIENT OR PUBLIC CONTRIBUTION: N/A as this is a Scoping Review.
WHAT THIS PAPER CONTRIBUTES TO THE WIDER GLOBAL COMMUNITY: An understanding of 
the experiences of transitioning when caring for a loved one dying at home could 
help mitigate challenges informal caregivers face when providing end-of-life 
care in the home. While informal caregivers are crucial to support people who 
want to die at home, the role is often invisible and family carers need support 
and recognition to reduce the burden of care and challenges they experience as 
they transition in their role.

© 2023 The Authors. Journal of Advanced Nursing published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jan.15942
PMID: 37983863


596. Water Res. 2023 Nov 15;248:120876. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2023.120876. Online
 ahead of print.

A random forest approach to improve estimates of tributary nutrient loading.

Isles PDF(1).

Author information:
(1)Vermont Department of Environmental Conservation, 1 National Life Drive, 
Montpelier, VT 05 USA. Electronic address: peter.isles@vermont.gov.

Estimating constituent loads from discrete water quality samples coupled with 
stream discharge measurements is critical for management of freshwater 
resources. Nutrient loads calculated based on discharge-concentration 
relationships form the basis of government nutrient load targets and scientific 
studies of the response of receiving waters to external loads. In this study, a 
new model is developed using random forests and applied to estimate 
concentrations and loads of total phosphorus, dissolved phosphorus, total 
nitrogen, and chloride, using data from 17 tributaries to Lake Champlain 
monitored from 1992 to 2021. I benchmark this model against one of the most 
widespread models currently used to estimate nutrient loads, Weighted 
Regressions on Time, Discharge, and Season (WRTDS). The random forest model 
outperformed both the base WRTDS model and an extension of the WRTDS model using 
Kalman filtering in the great majority of cases, likely due to the inclusion of 
rate-of-change in discharge and antecedent discharge over different leading 
windows as predictors, and to the flexibility of the random forest to model 
predictor-response relationships. The random forest also had useful 
visualization capabilities which provided important process insights. WRTDS 
remains a useful model for many applications, but this study represents a 
promising new approach for load estimation which can be applied easily to 
existing datasets, and which is easy to customize for different applications.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2023.120876
PMID: 37984040

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


597. J Obstet Gynecol Neonatal Nurs. 2023 Nov 17:S0884-2175(23)00275-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.jogn.2023.10.004. Online ahead of print.

Cost-Effectiveness of the Mindfulness-Based Childbirth and Parenting Program for 
Pregnant Women With Fear of Childbirth.

van Steensel FJA, Veringa-Skiba IK, Sauer AR, de Bruin EI, Bögels SM.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of the Mindfulness-Based Childbirth 
and Parenting (MBCP) program compared with enhanced care as usual (ECAU).
DESIGN: Randomized controlled trial.
SETTING: Midwifery settings in the Netherlands, April 2014 to July 2017.
PARTICIPANTS: Subset of pregnant women with high levels of fear of childbirth 
(N = 54: randomized to MBCP, n = 32, or to ECAU, n = 22) who were selected from 
the parent study because they completed all four cost questionnaires.
METHODS: We measured self-reported health care and non-health care costs. A 
subset of participants from the parent study completed the questionnaires at all 
four assessment points. We used the Wijma Delivery Expectancy Questionnaire to 
measure fear of childbirth and used the EuroQol-5D to measure quality of life. 
We used these measures of effect together with societal costs in the primary 
cost-effectiveness analyses. In the secondary cost-effectiveness analyses, we 
used different estimates of effects and costs to test the robustness of the 
primary analyses.
RESULTS: In all but one scenario, MBCP was more effective and cost less than 
ECAU. As indicated by the acceptability curves, the likelihood of MBCP being 
cost-effective varied within a range of 70% to 98%.
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that MBCP is a cost-effective intervention to 
reduce fear of childbirth in pregnant women. Important next steps are to 
replicate the study in countries with different health care systems and to 
explore the potential for further integration of MBCP into midwifery care.

Copyright © 2023 AWHONN, the Association of Women’s Health, Obstetric and 
Neonatal Nurses. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jogn.2023.10.004
PMID: 37984493

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors report no 
conflicts of interest or relevant financial relationships.


598. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2023 Nov 20. doi: 10.1111/ggi.14734. Online ahead of 
print.

Integrated effects of nutrition-related, physical, and social factors on frailty 
among community-dwelling older adults: A 7-year follow-up from the Kashiwa 
cohort study.

Lyu W(1)(2), Tanaka T(1), Bo-Kyung S(1)(3), Yoshizawa Y(1)(4), Akishita M(2), 
Iijima K(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gerontology, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, The University 
of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Institute for Future Initiatives, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Department of Healthy Life Expectancy, Graduate School of Medicine Juntendo 
University, Tokyo, Japan.

AIM: To investigate the impact of nutrition-related, physical, and social 
factors as well as their transitions on frailty over a 7-year follow-up period 
among community-dwelling older adults.
METHODS: Participants were 868 non-frail older adults. Frailty was assessed 
using the Cardiovascular Health Study index. Nutrition-related, physical, and 
social factors have been defined in our previous study. Cox regression analysis 
was conducted to investigate the association between the three factors at 
baseline and new-onset frailty during a 7-year follow-up period. Furthermore, 
transitions in the three factors over two/three consecutive years and their 
association with frailty were investigated using lagged generalized estimating 
equations.
RESULTS: The mean age was 73.8 ± 4.8 years (women, 47.0%), and the incidence of 
frailty was 12.5% during the 7-year follow-up period. Compared with participants 
who met the three factors' criteria at baseline, those who met two, one, and 
none showed associations with greater adjusted hazard ratios of new-onset 
frailty (1.73, 95% confidence interval 0.87-3.42; 2.04 [1.01-4.12]; and 5.69 
[2.82-11.47]). Generalized estimating equation analysis showed that, compared 
with older adults who maintained all the three criteria met, those who improved 
the quantity of criteria met, who maintained the less than three criteria met, 
and who decreased the quantity of criteria met showed (marginally) significant 
associations with greater adjusted odds ratios of frailty (2.86 [0.88-9.31], 
3.70 [1.10-12.45], and 4.75 [1.42-15.85]).
CONCLUSIONS: Practicing and maintaining all three factors in daily life are 
crucial for frailty prevention. Future research should explore strategies to 
motivate behavioral modifications in these factors at the population level. 
Geriatr Gerontol Int 2023; ••: ••-••.

© 2023 Japan Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/ggi.14734
PMID: 37984854


599. Carbohydr Polym. 2024 Jan 15;324:121477. doi: 10.1016/j.carbpol.2023.121477.
 Epub 2023 Oct 14.

An overview of the potential application of chitosan in meat and meat products.

Fernando SS(1), Jo C(2), Mudannayake DC(3), Jayasena DD(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, Faculty of Animal Science and Export 
Agriculture, Uva Wellassa University, Badulla 90000, Sri Lanka. Electronic 
address: sandithifernando@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, Center for Food and Bioconvergence, 
and Research Institute of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Seoul National 
University, Seoul 08826, South Korea; Institute of Green Bio Science and 
Technology, Seoul National University, Pyeongchang 25354, South Korea. 
Electronic address: cheorun@snu.ac.kr.
(3)Department of Animal Science, Faculty of Animal Science and Export 
Agriculture, Uva Wellassa University, Badulla 90000, Sri Lanka. Electronic 
address: deshani@uwu.ac.lk.
(4)Department of Animal Science, Faculty of Animal Science and Export 
Agriculture, Uva Wellassa University, Badulla 90000, Sri Lanka. Electronic 
address: dinesh@uwu.ac.lk.

Chitosan is considered the second most ubiquitous polysaccharide next to 
cellulose. It has gained prominence in various industries including biomedicine, 
textile, pharmaceutical, cosmetic, and notably, the food industry over the last 
few decades. The polymer's continual attention within the food industry can be 
attributed to the increasing popularity of greener means of packaging and demand 
for foods incorporated with natural alternatives instead of synthetic additives. 
Its antioxidant, antimicrobial, and film-forming abilities reinforced by the 
polymer's biocompatible, biodegradable, and nontoxic nature have fostered its 
usage in food packaging and preservation. Microbial activity and lipid oxidation 
significantly influence the shelf-life of meat, resulting in unfavorable changes 
in nutritional and sensory properties during storage. In this review, the 
scientific studies published in recent years regarding potential applications of 
chitosan in meat products; and their effects on shelf-life extension and sensory 
properties are discussed. The utilization of chitosan in the form of films, 
coatings, and additives in meat products has supported the extension of 
shelf-life while inducing a positive impact on their organoleptic properties. 
The nature of chitosan and its compatibility with various materials make it an 
ideal biopolymer to be used in novel arenas of food technology.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.carbpol.2023.121477
PMID: 37985042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


600. Ann Surg Oncol. 2023 Nov 20. doi: 10.1245/s10434-023-14600-2. Online ahead
of  print.

ASO Visual Abstract: Trends in Locoregional Therapy in Older Women with 
Early-Stage Hormone Receptor-Positive Breast Cancer by Frailty and Life 
Expectancy.

Minami CA(1)(2)(3)(4), Jin G(5), Freedman RA(6)(7)(5)(8), Schonberg MA(7)(9), 
King TA(10)(6)(7), Mittendorf EA(10)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Breast Surgery, Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. cminami@partners.org.
(2)Breast Oncology Program, Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women's Cancer Center, 
Boston, MA, USA. cminami@partners.org.
(3)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. cminami@partners.org.
(4)Center for Surgery and Public Health, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
MA, USA. cminami@partners.org.
(5)Center for Surgery and Public Health, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(6)Breast Oncology Program, Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women's Cancer Center, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(8)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(9)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(10)Division of Breast Surgery, Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-023-14600-2
PMID: 37985526601. Nat Food. 2023 Nov;4(11):961-965. doi: 10.1038/s43016-023-00868-w. Epub 2023
Nov  20.

Life expectancy can increase by up to 10 years following sustained shifts 
towards healthier diets in the United Kingdom.

Fadnes LT(1)(2), Celis-Morales C(3)(4), Økland JM(5)(6), Parra-Soto S(3)(7), 
Livingstone KM(8), Ho FK(9), Pell JP(9), Balakrishna R(5), Javadi Arjmand 
E(5)(10), Johansson KA(5)(10)(6), Haaland ØA(5)(6), Mathers JC(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway. lars.fadnes@uib.no.
(2)Bergen Addiction Research, Department of Addiction Medicine, Haukeland 
University Hospital, Bergen, Norway. lars.fadnes@uib.no.
(3)School of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Health, University of Glasgow, 
Glasgow, UK.
(4)Education, Physical Activity and Health Research Unit, University Católica 
del Maule, Talca, Chile.
(5)Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway.
(6)Bergen Centre for Ethics and Priority Setting, University of Bergen, Bergen, 
Norway.
(7)Department of Nutrition and Public Health, Universidad del Bío-Bío, Chillán, 
Chile.
(8)Institute for Physical Activity and Nutrition (IPAN), School of Exercise and 
Nutrition Sciences, Deakin University, Geelong, Victoria, Australia.
(9)School of Health and Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.
(10)Bergen Addiction Research, Department of Addiction Medicine, Haukeland 
University Hospital, Bergen, Norway.
(11)Human Nutrition and Exercise Research Centre, Centre for Healthier Lives, 
Population Health Sciences Institute, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
UK.

Adherence to healthy dietary patterns can prevent the development of 
non-communicable diseases and affect life expectancy. Here, using a prospective 
population-based cohort data from the UK Biobank, we show that sustained dietary 
change from unhealthy dietary patterns to the Eatwell Guide dietary 
recommendations is associated with 8.9 and 8.6 years gain in life expectancy for 
40-year-old males and females, respectively. In the same population, sustained 
dietary change from unhealthy to longevity-associated dietary patterns is 
associated with 10.8 and 10.4 years gain in life expectancy in males and 
females, respectively. The largest gains are obtained from consuming more whole 
grains, nuts and fruits and less sugar-sweetened beverages and processed meats. 
Understanding the contribution of sustained dietary changes to life expectancy 
can provide guidance for the development of health policies.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s43016-023-00868-w
PMCID: PMC10661734
PMID: 37985698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


602. Sci Rep. 2023 Nov 20;13(1):20244. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-47647-y.

The burden of colorectal cancer attributable to dietary risk in Middle East and 
North African from 1990 to 2019.

Pasdar Y(1)(2), Shadmani FK(1), Fateh HL(3), Soleimani D(1), Hamzeh B(1), 
Ghalandari M(1), Moloudpour B(4), Darbandi M(5).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Environmental Determinants of Health (RCEDH), Health 
Institute, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(2)Cardiovascular Research Center, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, 
Kermanshah, Iran.
(3)Nursing Department, Kalar Technical College, Garmian Polytechnic University, 
Kalar, Iraq.
(4)Student Research Committee, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(5)Research Center for Environmental Determinants of Health (RCEDH), Health 
Institute, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran. 
m.darbandi@kums.ac.ir.

The incidence of colorectal cancer (CRC) is increasing in low- and middle-income 
countries. This study aimed to estimate the burden of CRC attributable to 
nutritional risk in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region. The GBD 2019 
methods were used to estimate age-standardized mortality rates (ASMRs) and 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) in 2019 and over the past three decades. 
We evaluated the 30-year trend in DALYs and mortality rates from 
nutrition-related risks of CRC, from 1990 to 2019 by sex and age groups in 21 
countries in the MENA region. The rate of DALYs/100,000 due to diet-related 
risks for CRC in 2019 was 79.71 (95% UI: 56.79, 98.44) and 65.16 (95% UI: 45.86, 
80.95) in men and women, respectively. The percent changes of DALYs/100,000 in 
men and women were 8.15% and 2.50%, respectively, between 1990 and 2019. The 
percent changes in ASMRs in men and women were 8.32% and 3.44%, respectively. 
The highest DALYs and ASMRs were observed in both sexes in the age group 75-79 
years and above. The highest percent changes in DALYs/100,000 and ASMRs were 
observed between 1990 and 2019 in Afghanistan, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, 
Libya, Morocco, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan and Yemen. DALYs and ASMRs 
attributed to dietary risk for CRC increased in 21 countries in the MENA region 
from 1990 to 2019. A modified diet with more fiber, dairy products and less red 
meat intake is a highly recommended strategy for prevention CRC.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-47647-y
PMCID: PMC10662137
PMID: 37985710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


603. J Headache Pain. 2023 Nov 20;24(1):155. doi: 10.1186/s10194-023-01688-w.

Long-term effectiveness of eptinezumab in patients with migraine and prior 
preventive treatment failures: extension of a randomized controlled trial.

Ashina M(1)(2), Tepper SJ(3), Gendolla A(4), Sperling B(5), Ettrup A(5), 
Josiassen MK(5), Starling AJ(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Danish Headache Center, Copenhagen University 
Hospital, Rigshospitalet Glostrup Valdemar Hansen Vej 5, Glostrup, DK-2600, 
Denmark. ashina@dadlnet.dk.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark. ashina@dadlnet.dk.
(3)The New England Institute for Neurology and Headache, Stamford, CT, USA.
(4)Praxis Gendolla, Essen, Germany.
(5)H. Lundbeck A/S, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)Mayo Clinic Arizona, Scottsdale, AZ, USA.

BACKGROUND: Eptinezumab demonstrated efficacy in adults with migraine and prior 
preventive treatment failures in the placebo-controlled phase of the DELIVER 
clinical trial; its long-term effectiveness in this population has not yet been 
reported. The objective of this study was to evaluate the long-term 
effectiveness of eptinezumab in a migraine patient population during the 48-week 
extension phase of DELIVER.
METHODS: DELIVER was conducted June 1, 2020 to September 15, 2022. 865 adults 
with migraine, with documented evidence of 2-4 prior preventive migraine 
treatment failures and with completion of the 24-week placebo-controlled period 
of DELIVER received eptinezumab (100 or 300 mg) during the dose-blinded 
extension, either continuing their randomized dose or, if originally receiving 
placebo, were randomized 1:1 to an eptinezumab dose (100 or 300 mg). A mixed 
model for repeated measures was used to evaluate changes from baseline in the 
number of monthly migraine days (MMDs).
RESULTS: Of 865 patients entering the extension (eptinezumab 100 mg, n = 433; 
300 mg, n = 432), 782 (90.4%) completed and 11 (1.3%) discontinued due to an 
adverse event. Eptinezumab was associated with early and sustained reductions in 
migraine frequency. Mean MMDs at baseline were approximately 14 days across 
groups. Mean (standard error) change from baseline in MMDs over the final dosing 
interval (weeks 61-72) was -6.4 (0.50) with placebo/eptinezumab 100 mg, -7.3 
(0.49) with placebo/eptinezumab 300 mg, -7.1 (0.39) with eptinezumab 100 mg, and 
-7.0 (0.39) with eptinezumab 300 mg. During weeks 61-72, 63-70% of patients 
demonstrated ≥ 50% reduction in MMDs, and 36-45% demonstrated ≥ 75% reduction. 
Headache severity and acute medication use reductions, and patient-reported 
improvements in most bothersome symptom, disease status, quality of life, and 
work productivity, were observed. Adverse events were generally mild, transient, 
and similar in frequency/type to previous eptinezumab trials.
CONCLUSIONS: The long-term effectiveness and safety/tolerability of eptinezumab 
in patients with migraine and 2-4 prior preventive treatment failures was 
demonstrated by high completion rates and migraine-preventive benefits sustained 
for up to 18 months, implying that eptinezumab is a viable long-term treatment 
option for patients still seeking successful migraine treatments.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov (Identifier: NCT04418765; URL: 
https://www.
CLINICALTRIALS: gov/ct2/show/NCT04418765 ); EudraCT (Identifier: 2019-004497-25; 
URL: 
https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/search?query=2019-004497-25 ).

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s10194-023-01688-w
PMCID: PMC10662788
PMID: 37985968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Messoud Ashina reports receiving personal fees 
from AbbVie, Amgen, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Lundbeck, Novartis, Pfizer, and 
Teva Pharmaceuticals during the conduct of the study. He reported serving as 
associate editor of Cephalalgia, associate editor of﻿ The Journal of Headache 
and Pain, and associate editor of Brain. Stewart J. Tepper reports grants for 
research (no personal compensation): Allergan/AbbVie, Amgen, Eli Lilly, 
Lundbeck, Neurolief, Novartis, Satsuma, Zosano. Consultant and/or Advisory 
Boards (honoraria): Aeon, Allergan/AbbVie, Alphasights, Amgen, Aruene, Atheneum, 
Axsome Therapeutics, Becker Pharmaceutical Consulting, BioDelivery Sciences 
International, Biohaven, ClearView Healthcare Partners, ClickTherapeutics, 
CoolTech, CRG, Decision Resources, Defined Health, DRG, Eli Lilly, 
