Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Pontchaillou University 
Hospital, Rennes, France.
(2)Univ Rennes, CHU Rennes, Inserm, LTSI-UMR 1099, F-35000, Rennes.
(3)Aix-Marseille Univ, Inserm, IRD, ISSPAM, APHM, Biostatistics Dept., UMR1252 
SESSTIM Research Unit, Marseille, France.

OBJECTIVES: The population of candidates to surgical aortic valve replacement 
(SAVR) is evolving. The Perimount Magna Ease© bioprosthesis has been introduced 
relatively recently in the practice. We aimed at evaluating its long-term 
results.
METHODS: Single-center cohort of 1,016 consecutive SAVRs with the Magna Ease© 
valve (2008-2014), all-comers population. Prospective collection of in-hospital 
data, systematic clinical and echocardiographic follow-up. Evaluation of 
valve-related events: SVD, (structural valve deterioration, according to 
modified definition criteria), NSVD (nonstructural valve dysfunction), PPM 
(patient-prosthesis mismatch).
RESULTS: Age at SAVR was 73.4 ± 9.5 years; calcified aortic stenosis was the 
indication to surgery in 59.6%. 974 patients entered the follow-up, 564 were 
alive at last follow; up (median duration: 9.8 years) (up to 13.4 years). NYHA 
class was I or II in 92.1%. Overall survival at 10 years was 56.8%±1.8. Freedom 
from SVD at 10 was 96.5%±0.8 (Kaplan-Meier), and 97.4%±0.6 (competing risks) (28 
SVD events after 6.9 years ± 3.3). There were 15 reinterventions for SVD 
(redo-SAVR and TAVI); 10-year freedom from reintervention was 97.8% ± 0.6. 
Moderate and severe PPM occurred in 26.8% and 5.4%, respectively; without 
association with late mortality (p = 0.12 for moderate and p = 0.70 for severe 
PPM). Freedom from valve-related mortality was 97.8%±0.5 at 10 years.
CONCLUSIONS: In this follow-up of the Magna Ease bioprosthesis for SAVR, data 
indicate good late outcomes (30-days outcomes are excluded). Continued follow-up 
is required to further support its use in patients with life expectancy greater 
than 10-12 years.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/ejcts/ezad351
PMID: 38001032


660. Nat Commun. 2023 Nov 24;14(1):7683. doi: 10.1038/s41467-023-43613-4.

ACS-20/FATP4 mediates the anti-ageing effect of dietary restriction in C. 
elegans.

Wang Z(1), Zou L(1), Zhang Y(1)(2), Zhu M(3), Zhang S(3), Wu D(4), Lan J(5), 
Zang X(1)(2), Wang Q(1)(2), Zhang H(1), Wu Z(1), Zhu H(3), Chen D(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Model Animal Research Center of Medical School, MOE Key Laboratory of Model 
Animals for Disease Study, Nanjing University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, 210061, China.
(2)Zhejiang University-University of Edinburgh Institute, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Haining, 314400, China.
(3)School of Life Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, Shanghai, 
201210, China.
(4)Institute of Drug Discovery and Development, Center for Drug Safety 
Evaluation and Research, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan, 450001, China.
(5)Affiliated Hospital of Guilin Medical University, Guilin, Guangxi, 541001, 
China.
(6)Model Animal Research Center of Medical School, MOE Key Laboratory of Model 
Animals for Disease Study, Nanjing University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, 210061, China. 
dic@intl.zju.edu.cn.
(7)Zhejiang University-University of Edinburgh Institute, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Haining, 314400, China. dic@intl.zju.edu.cn.
(8)Department of Colorectal Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310058, China. 
dic@intl.zju.edu.cn.

Dietary restriction is an effective anti-ageing intervention across species. 
However, the molecular mechanisms from the metabolic aspects of view are still 
underexplored. Here we show ACS-20 as a key mediator of dietary restriction on 
healthy ageing from a genetic screen of the C. elegans acyl-CoA synthetase 
family. ACS-20 functions in the epidermis during development to regulate dietary 
restriction-induced longevity. Functional transcriptomics studies reveal that 
elevated expression of PTR-8/Patched is responsible for the proteostasis and 
lifespan defects of acs-20. Furthermore, the conserved NHR-23 nuclear receptor 
serves as a transcriptional repressor of ptr-8 and a key regulator of dietary 
restriction-induced longevity. Mechanistically, a specific region in the ptr-8 
promoter plays a key role in mediating the transcription regulation and lifespan 
extension under dietary restriction. Altogether, these findings identify a 
highly conserved lipid metabolism enzyme as a key mediator of dietary 
restriction-induced lifespan and healthspan extension and reveal the downstream 
transcriptional regulation mechanisms.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-023-43613-4
PMCID: PMC10673863
PMID: 38001113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.661. BMC Public Health. 2023 Nov 24;23(1):2326. doi: 10.1186/s12889-023-17120-6.

Perceived health inequalities: are the UK and US public aware of 
occupation-related health inequality, and do they wish to see it reduced?

Bridger EK(1), Tufte-Hewett A(2), Comerford DA(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology and Vision Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, 
England.
(2)Department of Psychology, Birmingham City University, Birmingham, England.
(3)Behavioural Science Centre, University of Stirling, Stirling, Scotland. 
david.comerford@stir.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: One underexamined factor in the study of lay views of socioeconomic 
health inequalities is occupation-related health. Examining health by 
occupational social class has a long history in the UK but has been 
comparatively overlooked in US public health literatures, where the relationship 
between health and work has attended more to hazard exposure.
METHODS: Representative samples of the UK and US indicated the perceived and 
ideal lifespan of people working in "higher managerial/professional" and 
"routine" occupations. We examine perceptions of inequality and desires for 
equality across occupation groups as a function of country and key 
socio-demographic variables.
RESULTS: 67.8% of UK and 53.7% of US participants identified that professionals 
live longer than routine workers. Multivariate models indicated that US 
participants were markedly less likely to be aware of occupation-related 
inequalities after controlling for age, gender, and education. Awareness was 
negatively related to age (in the US) and recent voting behaviours (both 
samples). Desiring equal life expectancy was less likely in the US sample, and 
less likely across both samples among older participants and those with lower 
levels of education.
CONCLUSION: Employing a novel approach to measuring perceived and ideal life 
expectancy inequality, this is the first study to examine perceptions of 
lifespan inequality by occupational groups. It reports widespread understanding 
of the occupation-related gradient in lifespan and a desire that these 
inequalities be eliminated in the UK, but considerably less awareness and desire 
for equality in the US. Greater tolerance for social status inequalities in the 
US than other similar countries appear to also extend to differences in life 
expectancy.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-023-17120-6
PMCID: PMC10668500
PMID: 38001407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


662. Foods. 2023 Nov 13;12(22):4108. doi: 10.3390/foods12224108.

Association of Food Consumption According to the Degree of Processing and 
Sociodemographic Conditions in Older Adults.

Silva GMD(1), Assumpção D(2), Freiria CN(2), Borim FSA(2), de Brito TRP(3), 
Corona LP(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Ciências Aplicadas, Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Street 
Pedro Zaccaria, 1300, Limeira 13484-350, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Faculdade de Ciências MédicasUniversidade Estadual de Campinas, Street 
Tessália Vieira de Camargo, 126-Cidade Universitária, Campinas 13083-887, São 
Paulo, Brazil.
(3)School of Nutrition, Federal University of Alfenas, Street Nabor Toledo 
Lopes, 598-Parque das Nações, Alfenas 37130-000, Minas Gerais, Brazil.

Several factors can impact food consumption in older adults, including those of 
sociodemographic, physiological, and chronic non-communicable diseases. This 
study aimed to evaluate the association of food consumption according to its 
degree of processing with sociodemographic conditions in community-dwelling 
older adults. Food intake was evaluated from 24-h recall data. All food items 
were classified according to the degree of processing into four groups as 
follows: in natura or minimally processed, culinary ingredients, processed, and 
ultra-processed foods. Food groups were considered dependent variables in a 
quantile regression model, adjusting for sex, age, schooling, ethnicity, and 
number of residents. Women and individuals with higher levels of education had 
lower consumption of in natura or minimally processed foods and higher 
consumption of ultra-processed foods. The yellow or indigenous ethnicity 
presented the lowest consumption of processed foods; older people who lived with 
three or more individuals had the highest consumption of culinary ingredients, 
whereas the older people who lived with one to two people had the highest 
consumption of processed foods and the lowest consumption of ultra-processed. 
These groups may be the target of educational and public policies to improve 
diet quality and contribute to quality of life in older ages.

DOI: 10.3390/foods12224108
PMCID: PMC10670687
PMID: 38002166

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


663. Foods. 2023 Nov 19;12(22):4170. doi: 10.3390/foods12224170.

Improvement of Microbial Quality, Physicochemical Properties, Fatty Acids 
Profile, and Shelf Life of Basa (Pangasius bocourti) Fillets during Chilling 
Storage Using Pepsin, Rosemary Oil, and Citric Acid.

Abd El-Fatah RA(1), Rozan MA(1), Ziena HM(1), Imre K(2), Morar A(2), Herman 
V(3), Abdel-Naeem HHS(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food and Dairy Science and Technology, Faculty of Agriculture, 
Damanhour University, Damanhour 22516, Egypt.
(2)Department of Animal Production and Veterinary Public Health, Faculty of 
Veterinary Medicine, University of Life Sciences "King Mihai I" from Timisoara, 
300645 Timisoara, Romania.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases and Preventive Medicine, Faculty of 
Veterinary Medicine, University of Life Sciences "King Mihai I" from Timisoara, 
300645 Timisoara, Romania.
(4)Department of Food Hygiene and Control, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Cairo 
University, Giza 12211, Egypt.

Meat discoloration, lipid oxidation, and undesirable texture are inevitable 
phenomena in basa fish fillets during storage, which in turn limits their 
exportation as well as decreases consumer acceptability. In addition, increasing 
consumers' requirements for high-quality, minimally processed, and ready-to-cook 
fish fillets with an extended shelf-life is a great challenge, particularly with 
lifestyle changes. Accordingly, this study aimed to improve the quality, lipid 
stability, fatty acid profile, and lipid nutritional quality indices (LNQI) of 
basa fish fillets during chilling storage at 4 °C for 15 days using pepsin 
enzyme (E, 0.1%), rosemary oil (R, 0.5%), citric acid (CA, 0.5%), and their 
combination (0.1% E + 0.5% R; 0.1% E + 0.5% CA; and 0.1% E + 0.5% R + 0.5% CA). 
Our results revealed that all treated samples exhibited a significant increase 
in protein content, a significant decrease in fat content, and a marked 
reduction in pH, total volatile base nitrogen (TVBN), thiobarbituric acid (TBA), 
free fatty acids, and shear force (SF) values in comparison to control ones. 
Moreover, significant improvements in sensory scores, color stability, fatty 
acid profile, LNQI, and microbial quality of all treated samples were observed. 
Such findings were more pronounced in samples treated with a mixture of pepsin, 
rosemary, and citric acid (TVBN: 2.04 vs. 6.52 mg%; TBA: 0.40 vs. 2.68 mg 
malonaldehyde/Kg; and SF: 8.58 vs. 19.51 Kgf). Based on the obtained results, 
there was an extension for the shelf life of all treated basa fish fillet 
samples, especially in samples treated with a mixture of pepsin, rosemary, and 
citric acids when compared with the control samples (˃15 days versus 10 days). 
Additionally, eucalyptol, camphor, isoborneol, and α-pinene are the main 
components of rosemary, with great antioxidant and antimicrobial activity. In 
conclusion, the mixture of pepsin, rosemary, and citric acid can be applied 
easily in the seafood industry and at the household level to provide 
ready-to-cook fish fillets of high quality with great health benefits.

DOI: 10.3390/foods12224170
PMCID: PMC10670765
PMID: 38002227

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


664. Brain Sci. 2023 Nov 11;13(11):1581. doi: 10.3390/brainsci13111581.

Effects of Physical Activity on Cognitive Functioning: The Role of Cognitive 
Reserve and Active Aging.

D'Aurizio G(1), Festucci F(1), Di Pompeo I(1), Tempesta D(1), Curcio G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnological and Applied Clinical Sciences, University of 
L'Aquila, 67100 L'Aquila, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The increase in average life expectancy necessitates the 
identification of possible mechanisms capable of promoting "active aging" to 
ensure adequate levels of global functioning. Numerous studies show that regular 
physical activity promotes, even in the elderly, a state of functional 
psychophysical well-being capable of slowing down age-related cognitive decline. 
This study aimed to clarify whether, and how, the intensity of physical activity 
can modulate cognitive and executive skills by influencing specific 
psychological variables.
METHODS: Our sample consisted of 151 senior subjects divided into hikers (HIK), 
gentle gymnastics (GYM), and sedentary (SED), who practice intense, moderate, 
and reduced physical activity, respectively. A battery of psychological 
questionnaires was administrated to evaluate attentional skills, 
decision-making, the ability to implement targeted behaviors, perceived 
self-efficacy, and psychophysical well-being. We included: the Mini-Mental State 
Examination, Cognitive Reserve Index Questionnaire, General Self-Efficacy Scale, 
Letter Cancellation Test, Everyday Competence Questionnaire, and Geriatric 
Depression Scale (GDS).
RESULTS: Comparisons between the scores reported by the three groups showed that 
the HIK group differs from the others with respect to most of the measurements, 
presenting better mood and cognitive performance, and a specific psychological 
profile. On the contrary, the GYM group appeared to have a greater affinity with 
the SED group than with the HIK group, both cognitively and psychologically.
CONCLUSIONS: Types of physical activity, as well as the intensity and frequency 
with which they are practiced, are factors that promote an active aging process, 
protecting the psychophysical well-being and overall cognitive functioning of 
the elderly.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci13111581
PMCID: PMC10670180
PMID: 38002541

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no potential conflict of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


665. Children (Basel). 2023 Nov 6;10(11):1789. doi: 10.3390/children10111789.

Global Cardiac Surgery-Accessibility to Cardiac Surgery in Developing Countries: 
Objectives, Challenges, and Solutions.

Agati S(1), Bellanti E(1).

Author information:
(1)Mediterranean Pediatric Cardiology Center, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, 
98035 Taormina, Italy.

Cardiac surgery is a modern science in the history of medicine. The impact of 
cardiac disease, in terms of treatment and prognosis, has made this discipline 
indispensable to global health. In recent decades, the greatest investment has 
been dispensed to technological and material improvements to increase life 
expectancy. This surgery must address different epidemiological aspects dictated 
by the geography and economic-social conditions of the global populations. For 
this reason, it is progressively important to address the cardiac surgery 
accessibility disparity. Many scientific papers and international meetings have 
studied how cardiac surgery can be more accessible in various countries around 
the world. In this review, we analyze all the challenges, solutions, and 
suggestions that can make this surgery accessible to the entire global 
population, with the purpose of reducing its disparity across all seven 
continents. For a long time, high-income countries have invested in 
technological capabilities and experimental advancements without caring about 
unequal access in the rest of the world. We believe that it is time to reverse 
this growth trajectory, placing the accessibility and distribution of surgical 
science as a priority, which is significant for the right to health of all 
people worldwide. This is the real new challenge in cardiosurgery.

DOI: 10.3390/children10111789
PMCID: PMC10670438
PMID: 38002880

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


666. Genes (Basel). 2023 Nov 17;14(11):2096. doi: 10.3390/genes14112096.

Comparative Transcriptomic Analysis of Largemouth Bass (Micropterus salmoides) 
Livers Reveals Response Mechanisms to High Temperatures.

Zhou F(1), Qi M(1), Li J(2), Huang Y(1), Chen X(1), Liu W(1), Yao G(1), Meng 
Q(1), Zheng T(1), Wang Z(2), Ding X(1).

Author information:
(1)Zhejiang Fisheries Technical Extension Center, Hangzhou 310023, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Vector Biology and Pathogen Control of Zhejiang Province, 
College of Life Sciences, Huzhou University, Huzhou 313000, China.

High temperatures are considered one of the most significant limitations to 
subtropical fishery production. Largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) is an 
economically important freshwater species grown in subtropical areas, which are 
extremely sensitive to heat stress (HS). However, comprehensive transcriptomic 
data for the livers of largemouth bass in response to HS are still lacking. In 
this study, a comparative transcriptomic analysis was performed to investigate 
the gene expression profiles of the livers of largemouth bass under HS 
treatment. As a result, 6114 significantly differentially expressed genes 
(DEGs), which included 2645 up-regulated and 3469 down-regulated genes, were 
identified in response to HS. Bioinformatics analyses demonstrated that the 
'ECM-receptor interaction' pathway was one of the most dramatically changed 
pathways in response to HS, and eight DEGs assigned to this pathway were taken 
as hub genes. Furthermore, the expression of these eight hub genes was 
determined by quantitative reverse transcription PCR, and all of them showed a 
significant change at the transcriptional level, suggesting a crucial role of 
the 'ECM-receptor interaction' pathway in the response of largemouth bass to HS. 
These findings may improve our understanding of the molecular mechanisms 
underlying the response of largemouth bass to HS.

DOI: 10.3390/genes14112096
PMCID: PMC10671503
PMID: 38003039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


667. Animals (Basel). 2023 Nov 13;13(22):3506. doi: 10.3390/ani13223506.

Genetic Variability and Conservation Challenges in Lithuanian Dairy Cattle 
Populations.

Marašinskienė Š(1), Šveistienė R(1), Razmaitė V(1), Račkauskaitė A(1), Juškienė 
V(1).

Author information:
(1)Animal Science Institute, Lithuanian University of Health Sciences, R. 
Žebenkos 12, LT 82317 Baisogala, Lithuania.

The purpose of the study was to investigate the genetic variability of open 
Lithuanian Red and Red-and-White (LRWP) and Lithuanian Black-and-White (LBWP) 
dairy cattle populations and indicate the differences from the old genotypes of 
Lithuanian Black-and-White (LBW) and Lithuanian Red cattle (LR), which are 
currently under a conservation program. In order to gain a better understanding 
of the populations under conservation and to minimize the potential influence of 
other breeds, a distinct subgroup was formed that comprised animals whose father 
and mother belonged to the same breed (LR_pure and LBW_pure). The genetic 
variability was estimated using the number of founders, pedigree completeness, 
number of males and females in reproduction and age distribution, generation 
interval (GI), inbreeding coefficient (F) and effective population size (Ne). 
The highest average pedigree completeness values in the second generations of 
the old genotype LR and LBW were 100%. Higher ages of females in the populations 
under conservation were related to a higher GI and their longer life expectancy. 
In 2021, the reproductive age of bulls used for insemination within these 
populations ranged from 5.1 to 27.8 years. The proportions of males producing 
offspring in their older age indicate that the semen was used from the national 
gene bank of commercial artificial insemination companies. The GI (>5) in LR and 
LBW females was higher than that in LRWP and LBWP. The analysis of the data over 
the 15-year period showed that the GI of males in LRWP and LBWP decreased 
equally by 38%, while in LR_pure population, it increased by 80%. A high (9.24%) 
average inbreeding coefficient (F) was found in inbred animals of LR_pure 
population, while in LBW_pure, it was 5.35% in 2021. The coefficient of 
inbreeding varied within the different cattle populations. In the open LR 
population, it ranged from 1.48% to 2.7%, while in the LRWP population, it fell 
between 2.12% and 3.72%. The lowest effective population size (Ne) concerning 
the rate of inbreeding was observed in LBW_pure (23) and LR_pure (59), with the 
highest Ne identified in the LBWP population (462). When considering Ne based on 
the number of parents, LR_pure displayed the lowest Ne (42), while the highest 
Ne was found in LBWP (4449). An analysis of local cattle populations reveals 
that LR faces the most critical situation. This particular population has been 
steadily declining for a number of years, necessitating additional measures and 
efforts to safeguard the LR's ancestral genetic makeup. The results of the LBWP 
analysis also highlight a concerning trend. Even in very large populations with 
open breeding programs, the effective population size per generation can 
experience a significant decrease.

DOI: 10.3390/ani13223506
PMCID: PMC10668635
PMID: 38003124

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


668. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Nov 13;24(22):16241. doi: 10.3390/ijms242216241.

CRISPR Variants for Gene Editing in Plants: Biosafety Risks and Future 
Directions.

Movahedi A(1), Aghaei-Dargiri S(2), Li H(1), Zhuge Q(1), Sun W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and the Environment, College of Life Sciences, Nanjing 
Forestry University, Nanjing 210037, China.
(2)Department of Biological Control Research, Iranian Research Institute of 
Plant Protection, Agricultural Research Education and Extension Organization 
(AREEO), Tehran 19858-13111, Iran.

The CRISPR genome editing technology is a crucial tool for enabling 
revolutionary advancements in plant genetic improvement. This review shows the 
latest developments in CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing system variants, discussing 
their benefits and limitations for plant improvement. While this technology 
presents immense opportunities for plant breeding, it also raises serious 
biosafety concerns that require careful consideration, including potential 
off-target effects and the unintended transfer of modified genes to other 
organisms. This paper highlights strategies to mitigate biosafety risks and 
explores innovative plant gene editing detection methods. Our review 
investigates the international biosafety guidelines for gene-edited crops, 
analyzing their broad implications for agricultural and biotechnology research 
and advancement. We hope to provide illuminating and refined perspectives for 
industry practitioners and policymakers by evaluating CRISPR genome enhancement 
in plants.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms242216241
PMCID: PMC10671001
PMID: 38003431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


669. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Nov 13;24(22):16259. doi: 10.3390/ijms242216259.

Potential Implications of miRNAs in the Pathogenesis, Diagnosis, and 
Therapeutics of Alzheimer's Disease.

Wang L(1), Shui X(1), Diao Y(1), Chen D(1), Zhou Y(1), Lee TH(1).

Author information:
(1)Fujian Key Laboratory of Translational Research in Cancer and 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou 350122, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex multifactorial disorder that poses a 
substantial burden on patients, caregivers, and society. Considering the 
increased aging population and life expectancy, the incidence of AD will 
continue to rise in the following decades. However, the molecular pathogenesis 
of AD remains controversial, superior blood-based biomarker candidates for early 
diagnosis are still lacking, and effective therapeutics to halt or slow disease 
progression are urgently needed. As powerful genetic regulators, microRNAs 
(miRNAs) are receiving increasing attention due to their implications in the 
initiation, development, and theranostics of various diseases, including AD. In 
this review, we summarize miRNAs that directly target microtubule-associated 
protein tau (MAPT), amyloid precursor protein (APP), and β-site APP-cleaving 
enzyme 1 (BACE1) transcripts and regulate the alternative splicing of tau and 
APP. We also discuss related kinases, such as glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3β, 
cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5), and death-associated protein kinase 1 (DAPK1), 
as well as apolipoprotein E, that are directly targeted by miRNAs to control tau 
phosphorylation and amyloidogenic APP processing leading to Aβ pathologies. 
Moreover, there is evidence of miRNA-mediated modulation of inflammation. 
Furthermore, circulating miRNAs in the serum or plasma of AD patients as 
noninvasive biomarkers with diagnostic potential are reviewed. In addition, 
miRNA-based therapeutics optimized with nanocarriers or exosomes as potential 
options for AD treatment are discussed.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms242216259
PMCID: PMC10671222
PMID: 38003448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


670. J Pers Med. 2023 Oct 24;13(11):1524. doi: 10.3390/jpm13111524.

The Importance of Managing Modifiable Comorbidities in People with Multiple 
Sclerosis: A Narrative Review.

Nociti V(1)(2), Romozzi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro Sclerosi Multipla, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario Agostino 
Gemelli IRCCS, 00168 Rome, Italy.
(2)Dipartimento Universitario di Neuroscienze, Università Cattolica del Sacro 
Cuore, 00168 Rome, Italy.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, inflammatory, degenerative demyelinating 
disease of the central nervous system (CNS) of unknown etiology that affects 
individuals in their early adulthood. In the last decade, life expectancy for 
people with MS (PwMS) has almost equaled that of the general population. This 
demographic shift necessitates a heightened awareness of comorbidities, 
especially the ones that can be prevented and modified, that can significantly 
impact disease progression and management. Vascular comorbidities are of 
particular interest as they are mostly modifiable health states, along with 
voluntary behaviors, such as smoking and alcohol consumption, commonly observed 
among individuals with MS. Vascular risk factors have also been implicated in 
the etiology of cerebral small vessel disease. Furthermore, differentiating 
between vascular and MS lesion load poses a significant challenge due to 
overlapping clinical and radiological features. This review describes the 
current evidence regarding the range of preventable and modifiable comorbidities 
and risk factors and their implications for PwMS.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm13111524
PMCID: PMC10672087
PMID: 38003839

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


671. J Pers Med. 2023 Nov 3;13(11):1572. doi: 10.3390/jpm13111572.

The Impact of Chronic Kidney Disease on the Mortality Rates of Patients with 
Urological Cancers-An Analysis of a Uro-Oncology Database from Eastern Europe.

Ciorcan M(1)(2), Negru Ș(3)(4), Bardan R(5)(6), Cumpănaș A(5)(6), Mattar I(6), 
Bitar Y(6), Chișavu L(7)(8)(9), Marc L(7)(8)(9), Schiller A(7)(8)(9), Mihăescu 
A(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Practical Skills, Victor Babes University of Medicine 
and Pharmacy, 300041 Timișoara, Romania.
(2)Center of Advanced Research in Cardiovascular Pathology and Hemostaseology, 
Victor Babes University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 300041 Timișoara, Romania.
(3)Department of Oncology, Victor Babes University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
300041 Timișoara, Romania.
(4)Oncohelp Oncology Center, 300239 Timișoara, Romania.
(5)Department of Urology, Victor Babes University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
300041 Timișoara, Romania.
(6)Department of Urology, Clinical Emergency County Hospital, 300723 Timișoara, 
Romania.
(7)Department of Nephrology, Victor Babes University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
300041 Timișoara, Romania.
(8)Department of Nephrology, Clinical Emergency County Hospital, 300723 
Timișoara, Romania.
(9)Center for Molecular Research in Nephrology and Vascular Disease, Victor 
Babes University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 300041 Timișoara, Romania.

(1) Background: The relationship between chronic kidney disease (CKD) and 
urological cancers is complex, as most of these cancers are diagnosed in 
patients with advanced ages, when the kidney function may be already impaired. 
On the other hand, urological cancers could represent a risk factor for CKD, 
significantly reducing the life expectancy of the patients. The main objective 
of our study was to analyze the impact of CKD on the overall mortality of 
patients diagnosed with the most frequent types of urological cancers. (2) 
Material and Methods: We conducted an observational retrospective cohort study 
on a group of 5831 consecutive newly diagnosed cancer patients, followed over a 
2-year period (2019-2020), from a large Oncology Hospital in Romania. From this 
group, we selected only the patients diagnosed with urological malignancies, 
focusing on prostate cancer, bladder cancer and renal cancer; finally, 249 
patients were included in our analysis. (3) Results: In the group of patients 
with prostate cancer (n = 146), the 2-year overall mortality was 62.5% for 
patients with CKD, compared with 39.3% for those with no initial CKD (p < 0.05). 
In the group of patients with bladder cancer (n = 62), the 2-year overall 
mortality was 80% for patients with initial CKD, compared with 45.2% for the 
patients with no initial CKD (p < 0.05). Finally, in the group of patients with 
renal cell carcinoma (n = 41), the 2-year overall mortality was 60% for patients 
with initial CKD, compared with 50% for the patient group with no initial CKD (p 
< 0.05). Various correlations between specific oncologic and nephrological 
parameters were also analyzed. (4) Conclusions: The presence of CKD at the 
moment of the urological cancer diagnosis is associated with significantly 
higher 2-year mortality rates.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm13111572
PMCID: PMC10672193
PMID: 38003887

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


672. Medicina (Kaunas). 2023 Nov 1;59(11):1934. doi: 10.3390/medicina59111934.

Oligometastasis: Expansion of Curative Treatments in the Field of Oncology.

Lim AR(1), Rim CH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Oncology, Korea University Ansan 
Hospital, Korea University, Ansan-si 15355, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Korea University Ansan Hospital, Korea 
University, Ansan-si 15355, Republic of Korea.

Oligometastasis is defined as the presence of several limited metastatic lesions 
and is generally limited to three or fewer than five metastatic lesions. 
Previously, the treatment of metastatic cancer aimed to alleviate symptoms 
rather than cure them; however, the use of immunotherapy or targeted therapy has 
greatly improved patient life expectancy. Additionally, the effectiveness and 
safety of local treatment have recently been proven for oligometastatic cancers 
and have significantly improved patient survival and decreased recurrence rates. 
A few metastatic studies on lung cancer have demonstrated the usefulness of 
combining radiation therapy and immunotherapy. Recently, local and targeted 
therapy combinations have shown promising results in treating non-small cell 
lung cancer, predominantly caused by the epidermal growth factor receptor and 
anaplastic lymphoma kinase gene mutations, suggesting the potential of these new 
treatment strategies. It is well known that oligometastasis has better clinical 
results than polymetastasis; however, research on the biological profile of 
oligometastasis is still lacking. Studies using circulating tumor DNA and 
circulating tumor cells are at the initial stages of providing a better 
understanding of oligometastatic cancers, and the biological characteristics of 
these cancers may be revealed based on more diverse studies. With the 
development of these treatments, the prognosis for patients with oligometastatic 
cancers is steadily improving, and if the biological profile is revealed, 
customized treatment may be provided.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina59111934
PMCID: PMC10672750
PMID: 38003982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


673. Medicina (Kaunas). 2023 Nov 6;59(11):1959. doi: 10.3390/medicina59111959.

Comorbidities and Laryngeal Cancer in Patients with Obstructive Sleep Apnea: A 
Review.

Kiss B(1), Neagos CM(1), Jimborean G(2), Sárközi HK(2), Szathmary M(2), Neagos 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorinolaryngology, Emergency County Hospital Targu Mures, 
George Emil Palade University of Medicine, Pharmacy, Science and Technology, 
540136 Târgu Mures, Romania.
(2)Pneumologic Department, George Emil Palade University of Medicine Science and 
Technology, 540136 Târgu Mures, Romania.

Introductions: The global prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea shows that this 
disease appears in 1 billion people, with the prevalence exceeding 50% in some 
countries. Treatment is necessary to minimize negative health impacts. 
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is defined as a cause of daytime sleepiness, as 
well as a clinical manifestation of sleep-disordered breathing. In the 
literature, there are numerous controversial studies regarding the etiology of 
this condition, but it is universally accepted that reduced activity in the 
upper airway muscles plays a significant role in its onset. Additionally, OSA 
has been associated with a series of comorbidities, such as type II diabetes, 
metabolic syndrome, and cardiovascular and pulmonary conditions, as well as head 
and neck tumors, especially oropharyngeal and laryngeal tumors. This is a review 
of the subject of OSA that considers several aspects: an analysis of the 
comorbidities associated with OSA, the involvement of tumor pathology in the 
onset of OSA, and the association of OSA with various types of laryngeal 
cancers. Additionally, it includes an evaluation of postoperative and medical 
outcomes for patients with OSA and laryngeal tumors treated surgically and 
medically, including chemotherapy. Relevant Sections: By taking into 
consideration the stated objective, a systematic analysis of the available 
literature was conducted, encompassing the PubMed, Medline, and Scopus 
databases. The evaluation was based on several keywords, including head and neck 
cancer, diabetes, diabetic, overlap syndrome, cardiovascular conditions, 
laryngeal neoplasm, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy, as well as the concept of 
quality of life in laryngectomized patients and patients with OSA. Discussions: 
The review evaluates the involvement of OSA in the presence of comorbidities, as 
well as the increased incidence of OSA in patients with laryngeal cancer. It is 
important to note that surgical and post-surgical treatment can play a 
significant role in triggering OSA in these patients. Conclusions: The studies 
regarding the correlations between OSA, comorbidities, and head and neck tumors 
indicate a significantly increased risk of OSA in association with conditions 
such as diabetes, metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular diseases, and head and neck 
tumors, particularly laryngeal tumors. This association has a 
physio-pathological basis. The various surgical methods followed by radiation 
and chemotherapy for tumor treatment do not exclude an increased risk of 
developing OSA after treatment. This significantly influences the quality of 
life of patients who survive these types of tumors. Future directions: Due to 
the multiple comorbidities associated with OSA, the extension of polysomnography 
associated with investigations during sleep, such as drug-induced sleep 
endoscopy, represents a tendency for the early diagnosis of this pathology, 
which affects the quality of life of these patients. Patients with head and neck 
cancer are at high risk of developing obstructive sleep apnea; this is why it is 
necessary to expand the polysomnographic investigation of these patients after 
surgical procedures or after radiotherapy and chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina59111959
PMCID: PMC10672902
PMID: 38004008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares that the review was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationship that could 
be construed as potential conflict of interest.


674. Life (Basel). 2023 Nov 6;13(11):2173. doi: 10.3390/life13112173.

Effectiveness of Deep Cervical Fascial Manipulation(®) and Sequential Yoga Poses 
on Pain and Function in Individuals with Mechanical Neck Pain: A Randomised 
Controlled Trial.

Raja G P(1), Bhat S(2), Gangavelli R(3), Prabhu A(4), Stecco A(5), Pirri C(6), 
Jaganathan V(7), Fernández-de-Las-Peñas C(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Exercise and Sports Science, Manipal College of Health 
Professions, Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal 576104, India.
(2)Department of Orthopedics, Kasturba Medical College, Manipal Academy of 
Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal 576104, India.
(3)Department of Physiotherapy, GITAM School of Physiotherapy, GITAM University, 
Visakhapatnam 530045, India.
(4)Department of Physiotherapy, Manipal College of Health Professions, Manipal 
Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal 576104, India.
(5)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, New York University, New York, NY 
10012, USA.
(6)Department of Neurosciences, Institute of Human Anatomy, University of Padua, 
35121 Padova, Italy.
(7)Department of Statistics, Manipal College of Health Professions, Manipal 
Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal 576104, India.
(8)Department of Physical Therapy, Occupational Therapy, Rehabilitation and 
Physical Medicine, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, 28008 Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to investigate the effect of fascial manipulation 
(FM) of the deep cervical fascia (DCF) and sequential yoga poses (SYP) on pain 
and function in individuals with mechanical neck pain (MNP).
METHOD: Following the predefined criteria, ninety-nine individuals with MNP were 
recruited, randomised, and assigned to either the intervention group (IG) (n = 
51) or the control group (CG) (n = 48). Individuals in the IG received FM (4 
sessions in 4 weeks) and the home-based SYP (4 weeks). The CG participants 
received their usual care (cervical mobilisation and thoracic manipulation (4 
sessions in 4 weeks) along with unsupervised therapeutic exercises (4 weeks). 
The participants underwent baseline and weekly follow-up measurements of pain 
using a numerical pain rating scale (NPRS) and elbow extension range of motion 
(EEROM) during the upper limb neurodynamic test 1 (ULNT1). The baseline and the 
fourth session follow-up measurements of the patient-specific functional scale 
(PSFS) and fear-avoidance behavior Questionnaire (FABQ) were also taken.
RESULTS: A repeated-measures ANOVA was performed. There were statistically 
significant differences between the IG and CG on the NPRS third and fourth 
sessions, with mean differences (MD) of -1.009 (p < 0.05) and -1.701 (p < 
0.001), respectively. Regarding EEROM, there was a 20.120° difference (p < 
0.001) in the fourth session between the groups. The MD in FABQ was -5.036 (p < 
0.001), but there were no significant differences in PSFS between the groups 
during the follow-up.
CONCLUSION: FM and SYP can aid in reducing pain and fear-avoidance behaviour and 
improve the function and extensibility of the upper quarter region.

DOI: 10.3390/life13112173
PMCID: PMC10672322
PMID: 38004313

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


675. Life (Basel). 2023 Nov 18;13(11):2221. doi: 10.3390/life13112221.

Atherosclerosis in Patients with Congenital Hemophilia: A Focus on Peripheral 
Artery Disease.

Badescu MC(1)(2), Badulescu OV(3)(4), Costache AD(1)(5), Mitu O(1)(6), Lupu 
VV(7), Dmour BA(1), Lupu A(7), Foia LG(8), Costache II(1)(6), Rezus C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, "Grigore T. Popa" University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, 16 University Street, 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(2)III Internal Medicine Clinic, "St. Spiridon" County Emergency Clinical 
Hospital, 1 Independence Boulevard, 700111 Iasi, Romania.
(3)Department of Pathophysiology, "Grigore T. Popa" University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, 16 University Street, 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(4)Hematology Clinic, "St. Spiridon" County Emergency Clinical Hospital, 1 
Independence Boulevard, 700111 Iasi, Romania.
(5)Cardiovascular Rehabilitation Clinic, Clinical Rehabilitation Hospital, 
700661 Iasi, Romania.
(6)Cardiology Clinic, "St. Spiridon" County Emergency Clinical Hospital, 1 
Independence Boulevard, 700111 Iasi, Romania.
(7)Pediatrics Department, Faculty of Medicine, "Grigore T. Popa" University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, 16 University Street, 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(8)Department of Biochemistry, "Grigore T. Popa" University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, 16 University Street, 700115 Iasi, Romania.

Advances in the treatment of hemophilia have increased the life expectancy of 
this population and we are currently facing diseases associated with aging, 
including cardiovascular ones. Coronary atherosclerosis, with acute myocardial 
infarction as the most severe form of manifestation, has been recognized as part 
of the comorbidities of hemophiliacs. However, little is known about peripheral 
artery disease. Available data show that hemophiliacs have cardiovascular risk 
factors and atherosclerosis similar to the general population. Impaired thrombus 
formation and phenotype of atheroma plaque rather than the burden of 
atherosclerosis explains their lower cardiovascular mortality. Since the effect 
of traditional cardiovascular risk factors overpowers that of decreased 
coagulability and promotes the onset and progression of atherosclerotic lesions, 
screening for traditional cardiovascular risk factors and peripheral artery 
disease should be integrated into standard hemophilia care. There is evidence 
that invasive treatments and long-term antithrombotic therapy are generally 
safe, provided that coagulation factor levels are taken into account and 
replacement therapy is given when necessary.

DOI: 10.3390/life13112221
PMCID: PMC10672485
PMID: 38004361

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


676. Pharmaceutics. 2023 Oct 26;15(11):2535. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics15112535.

Transporter-Mediated Cellular Distribution of Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors as a 
Potential Resistance Mechanism in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia.

Verhagen NE(1), Koenderink JB(1), Blijlevens NMA(2), Janssen JJWM(2), Russel 
FGM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Department of Pharmacy, Radboud 
University Medical Center, 6525 GA Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Haematology, Radboud University Medical Center, 6525 GA 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a hematologic neoplasm characterized by the 
expression of the BCR::ABL1 oncoprotein, a constitutively active tyrosine 
kinase, resulting in uncontrolled growth and proliferation of cells in the 
myeloid lineage. Targeted therapy using tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) such 
as imatinib, nilotinib, dasatinib, bosutinib, ponatinib and asciminib has 
drastically improved the life expectancy of CML patients. However, treatment 
resistance occurs in 10-20% of CML patients, which is a multifactorial problem 
that is only partially clarified by the presence of TKI inactivating BCR::ABL1 
mutations. It may also be a consequence of a reduction in cytosolic TKI 
concentrations in the target cells due to transporter-mediated cellular 
distribution. This review focuses on drug-transporting proteins in stem cells 
and progenitor cells involved in the distribution of TKIs approved for the 
treatment of CML. Special attention will be given to ATP-binding cassette 
transporters expressed in lysosomes, which may facilitate the extracytosolic 
sequestration of these compounds.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics15112535
PMCID: PMC10675650
PMID: 38004514

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


677. Plants (Basel). 2023 Nov 13;12(22):3837. doi: 10.3390/plants12223837.

Identification of High-Yielding Genotypes of Barley in the Warm Regions of Iran.

Pour-Aboughadareh A(1), Koohkan S(2), Zali H(3), Marzooghian A(4), Gholipour 
A(5), Kheirgo M(5), Barati A(1), Bocianowski J(6), Askari-Kelestani A(3).

Author information:
(1)Seed and Plant Improvement Institute, Agricultural Research, Education and 
Extension Organization (AREEO), Karaj P.O. Box 31587-77871, Iran.
(2)Crop and Horticultural Science Research Department, Sistan Agricultural and 
Natural Resources Research and Education Center, Agricultural Research, 
Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Zabol P.O. Box 98616-44534, Iran.
(3)Crop and Horticultural Science Research Department, Fars Agricultural and 
Natural Resources Research and Education Center, Agricultural Research, 
Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Darab P.O. Box 71558-63511, Iran.
(4)Crop and Horticultural Science Research Department, Khuzestan Agricultural 
and Natural Resources Research and Education Center, Agricultural Research, 
Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Ahvaz P.O. Box 61335-3341, Iran.
(5)Crop and Horticultural Science Research Department, Golestan Agricultural and 
Natural Resources Research and Education Center, Agricultural Research, 
Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Gonbad P.O. Box 49156-77555, Iran.
(6)Department of Mathematical and Statistical Methods, Poznan University of Life 
Sciences, Wojska Polskiego 28, 60-637 Poznan, Poland.

One of the most important effects of climatic changes is increasing temperatures 
and expanding water deficit stress in tropical and subtropical regions. As the 
fourth most important cereal crop, barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is crucial for 
food and feed security, as well as for a sustainable agricultural system. The 
present study investigates 56 promising barley genotypes, along with four local 
varieties (Norooz, Oxin, Golchin, and Negin) in four locations to identify 
high-yielding and adapted genotypes in the warm climate of Iran. Genotypes were 
tested in an alpha lattice design with six blocks, which were repeated three 
times. Traits measured were the number of days to heading and maturity, plant 
height, thousand kernels weight, and grain yield. A combined analysis of 
variance showed the significant effects of genotypes (G), environments (E), and 
their interaction (GEI) on all measured traits. Application of the additive 
main-effect and multiplicative interaction (AMMI) model to the grain yield data 
showed that GEI was divided into three significant components (IPCAs), and each 
accounted for 50.93%, 30.60%, and 18.47%, respectively. Two selection indices 
[Smith-Hazel (SH) and multiple trait selection index (MTSI)] identified G18, 
G24, G29, and G57 as desirable genotypes at the four test locations. Using 
several BLUP-based indices, such as the harmonic mean of genotypic values 
(HMGV), the relative performance of genotypic values (RPGV), and the harmonic 
mean of the relative performance of genotypic values (HMRPGV), genotypes G6, 
G11, G22, G24, G29, G38, G52, and G57 were identified as superior genotypes. The 
application of GGE analysis identified G6, G24, G29, G52, and G57 as the 
high-yielding and most stable genotypes. Considering all statistical models, 
genotypes G24, G29, and G57 can be used, as they are well-adapted to the test 
locations in warm regions of Iran.

DOI: 10.3390/plants12223837
PMCID: PMC10675262
PMID: 38005734

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


678. Polymers (Basel). 2023 Nov 7;15(22):4345. doi: 10.3390/polym15224345.

Life Expectancy of Transformer Paper Insulation Retrofilled with Natural Ester 
in the Laboratory.

Montero A(1), García B(1), López C(1).

Author information:
(1)Electrical Engineering Department, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, 28911 
Leganés, Spain.

The use of alternative insulating liquids instead of mineral oil in transformers 
is spreading around the world due to their superior fire resistance. 
Furthermore, researchers have demonstrated that these oils increase the lifespan 
of the solid insulation of the transformers and, thus, the life expectancy of 
the equipment. Retrofilling of transformers with natural and synthetic esters 
allows companies to benefit from the properties of using these liquids without 
making an investment into new machinery. This paper investigated the ageing 
process of Kraft paper that was retrofilled with a natural ester in the 
laboratory. The Kraft paper samples were subjected to accelerated thermal ageing 
in an oven at 130 °C, and markers such as the degree of polymerisation and 
tensile strength were measured. The ageing tests comprised a first period, where 
the samples were immersed in mineral oil, followed by a replacement of the oil 
with a natural ester. As moisture is a determinant factor for paper ageing, two 
sets of samples with different moisture contents were tested. The results showed 
that the retrofilling of the transformers may slow down the degradation rate of 
the solid insulation despite the presence of remaining mineral oil adsorbed in 
the paper.

DOI: 10.3390/polym15224345
PMCID: PMC10675643
PMID: 38006070

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


679. Soc Sci Med. 2023 Nov 14;339:116404. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2023.116404. 
Online ahead of print.

Empirical evidence supporting the inclusion of multi-axes segregation in 
assessing US county health.

Wong DWS(1), Das Gupta D(2).

Author information:
(1)Geography & Geoinformation Science, George Mason University, 2400, 
Exploratory Hall, 4400 University Drive, Fairfax, VA, 22030, USA. Electronic 
address: dwong2@gmu.edu.
(2)Department of Kinesiology and Health Science, Utah State University, 7000 Old 
Main Hill, Logan, UT, 84322, USA. Electronic address: debasree.dasgupta@usu.edu.

To facilitate community action toward health equity, the County Health Rankings 
& Roadmaps program (CHR&R) assigns health rankings to US counties. The CHR&R 
conceptual model considers White-Black and White-non-White dissimilarity values 
to represent residential segregation as part of the family and social support 
subcomponent. As the US is greying and becoming more multi-racial-ethnic, the 
two-group White-centered segregation measures are inadequate to capture 
segregation among population subgroups in the US. Thus, we evaluate the 
relevancy of segregation measures that consider multiple racial, ethnic, and age 
groups in assessing US county health. Besides using the two-group dissimilarity 
index to measure White-centered racial segregation as conceptualized by CHR&R, 
the study also uses the multi-group generalized dissimilarity index to measure 
racial-ethnic-age segregation by counties, employing both aspatial and spatial 
versions of these measures. These indices are computed for counties using the 
2015-2019 American Community Survey data at the census tract level. Descriptive 
statistics and regressions controlling for sociodemographic factors and 
healthcare access are used to assess the contributions of individual segregation 
measures to mortality (life expectancy, years of potential life lost and 
premature mortality) and morbidity (frequent mental distress, frequent physical 
distress, and low birth weight) indicators representing county health. Overall, 
correlations between these indicators and most segregation measures are 
significant but weak. Regression results show that many segregation measures are 
not significantly related to mortality indicators, but most are significantly 
associated with morbidity indicators, with the magnitudes of these associations 
higher for the multi-group racial-ethnic-age segregation index and its spatial 
version. Results provide evidence that racial-ethnic-age segregation is 
associated with county-level morbidity and that spatial measures capturing 
segregation of multiple population axes should be considered for ranking county 
health.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2023.116404
PMID: 38006796

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement This study was 
partly supported by a grant (award number: 0000001678) awarded to the authors 
from the County Health Rankings and Roadmaps program, a program of the 
University of Wisconsin Population Health Institute, with support from the 
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. The sponsor played no role in study design, 
collection of data, data analysis, and interpretation of result, writing the 
report; and the decision to submit this manuscript for publication.


680. BMC Res Notes. 2023 Nov 25;16(1):349. doi: 10.1186/s13104-023-06623-5.

Dataset of the impact of food insecurity on health outcomes in sub-Saharan 
Africa.
