1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2023 Nov;396(11):3163-3175. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-023-02524-3. Epub 2023 May 16.

USP22 knockdown protects against cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury via 
destabilizing PTEN protein and activating the mTOR/TFEB pathway.

Li Y(1), Gao J(2), Liu C(3), Bu N(4), Zhan S(4), Wu H(4), Zhang R(4), Sun H(4), 
Fan H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, No. 157 Xiwulu, Xi'an, 710004, Shaanxi Province, China. 
li_yanlingyl@163.com.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, The First Hospital of YuLin, YuLin, 719000, 
Shaanxi Province, China.
(3)Department of Geriatrics, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an , Shaanxi Province, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, No. 157 Xiwulu, Xi'an, 710004, Shaanxi Province, China.

Ubiquitin-specific protease 22 (USP22) expression was reported to be increased 
in response to ischemic brain damage, but the biological role and underlying 
mechanism remain little understood. USP22 shRNA was intravenously injected into 
the mouse brain, and then a middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion 
(MCAO/R) mouse model was constructed, and the infarct volume, neurobehavioral 
deficit score, cell apoptosis, oxidative stress, and autophagy in vivo were 
evaluated. Oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) treated 
pheochromocytoma-12 (PC12) cells were used as an in vitro model of 
ischemia/reperfusion. The effects of USP22 on proliferation, apoptosis, 
oxidative stress, and autophagy were explored by CCK-8, flow cytometry, ELISA, 
and Western blot assays. The relationship between USP22 and the phosphatase and 
tensin homolog (PTEN) was measured by Co-IP and Western blot assays. Both USP22 
and PTEN were highly expressed in MCAO/R mouse brain tissues and OGD/R-induced 
PC12 cells. In vitro, USP22 knockdown strongly improved OGD/R-mediated changes 
in cell viability, apoptosis, oxidative stress, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) 
production in PC12 cells. USP22 bound to PTEN and stabilized PTEN expression by 
decreasing its ubiquitination. PTEN overexpression reversed the promoting effect 
of USP22 knockdown on cell viability and the inhibitory effects of USP22 
knockdown on apoptosis, oxidative stress, and LDH release rate in PC12 cells 
subjected to OGD/R. PTEN silencing elevated the protein levels of p62, p-mTOR, 
TFEB, and LAMP1 and reduced the protein levels of LC3-II/LC3-I. USP22 expression 
levels were negatively correlated with mTOR expression levels, and 
USP22-shRNA-mediated expression of p62, p-mTOR, TFEB, and LAMP1 was reversed by 
rapamycin, an inhibitor of mTOR. In vivo, USP22 silencing significantly 
alleviated infarct volume, neurobehavioral impairments, cell apoptosis, 
oxidative stress, and autophagy in MCAO/R mice. USP22 knockdown exerts 
neuroprotective effects in cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury by 
downregulating PTEN and activating the mTOR/TFEB pathway.

Â© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-023-02524-3
PMID: 37191727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
