1. Int J Mol Med. 2023 Jul;52(1):56. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2023.5259. Epub 2023 May
26.

Ginsenoside Rg1 regulates autophagy and endoplasmic reticulum stress via the 
AMPK/mTOR and PERK/ATF4/CHOP pathways to alleviate alcohol‑induced myocardial 
injury.

Tian G(1), Li J(2), Zhou L(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jinzhou Medical 
University, Jinzhou, Liaoning 121000, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang, Liaoning 110001, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Geriatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jinzhou Medical 
University, Jinzhou, Liaoning 121000, P.R. China.

It has been reported that ginsenoside Rg1 (G‑Rg1) can alleviate alcoholic liver 
injury, cardiac hypertrophy and myocardial ischemia, as well as reperfusion 
injury. Therefore, the present study aimed to investigate the role of G‑Rg1 in 
alcohol‑induced myocardial injury, as well as to elucidate its underlying 
mechanisms of action. For this purpose, H9c2 cells were stimulated with ethanol. 
Subsequently, H9c2 cell viability and apoptosis were determined using a Cell 
Counting Kit‑8 assay and flow cytometric analysis, respectively. The levels of 
lactate dehydrogenase and caspase‑3 in the H9c2 cell culture supernatant were 
detected using corresponding assay kits. In addition, the expression of green 
fluorescent protein (GFP)‑light chain 3 (LC3) and that of C/EBP homologous 
protein (CHOP) were evaluated using GFP‑LC3 assay and immunofluorescence 
staining, respectively. The expression levels of apoptosis‑, autophagy‑, 
endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS)‑ and adenosine 5'‑monophosphate‑activated 
protein kinase (AMPK)/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway‑related 
proteins were detected using western blot analysis. The results revealed that 
treatment with G‑Rg1 enhanced the viability and suppressed the apoptosis of 
ethanol‑stimulated H9c2 cells. G‑Rg1 also attenuated autophagy and ERS in 
ethanol‑stimulated H9c2 cells. In addition, the levels of phosphorylated 
(p)‑protein kinase R (PKR)‑like ER kinase (PERK), p‑eukaryotic translation 
initiation factor 2a, activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4), CHOP, caspase‑12 
and p‑AMPK were downregulated, while the p‑mTOR level was upregulated in 
ethanol‑stimulated H9c2 cells treated with G‑Rg1. Furthermore, the co‑treatment 
of G‑Rg1‑treated ethanol‑stimulated H9c2 cells with AICAR, an AMPK agonist, or 
CCT020312, a PERK agonist, inhibited cell viability and promoted cell apoptosis, 
autophagy and ERS. Overall, the results of the present study suggest that G‑Rg1 
suppresses autophagy and ERS via inhibiting the AMPK/mTOR and PERK/ATF4/CHOP 
pathways to alleviate ethanol‑induced H9c2 cell injury.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2023.5259
PMCID: PMC10241156
PMID: 37232350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.
