1. Geroscience. 2023 Oct;45(5):2769-2783. doi: 10.1007/s11357-023-00935-x. Epub 
2023 Oct 6.

Blazing a trail for the clinical use of rapamycin as a geroprotecTOR.

Konopka AR(1)(2)(3), Lamming DW(4)(5); RAP PAC Investigators; EVERLAST 
Investigators.

Collaborators: Grasso BA, Marrah RC, Decker S, Garg N, Park Y, Lim SY, Simcox 
JA, Green CL, Grunow I, Yadev AK, Marrah RC, Grasso BA, Decker S, Pabich S, 
Mandelbrot D, Wallhaus TR, Wieben O, Osman F, Chappell RJ, Ong IM, Alisch RS, 
Simcox JA, Elliehausen CJ, Minton DM, Trautman ME, Spahic A, Bendlin BB, Asthana 
S, Terskikh A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 53705, USA. akonopka@medicine.wisc.edu.
(2)William S. Middleton Memorial Veterans Hospital, Madison, WI, 53705, USA. 
akonopka@medicine.wisc.edu.
(3)Division of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Department of Medicine, Geriatric 
Research Education and Clinical Center (GRECC), William S. Middleton Memorial 
Veterans Hospital, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 2500 Overlook Terrace, 
Madison, WI, 53705, USA. akonopka@medicine.wisc.edu.
(4)William S. Middleton Memorial Veterans Hospital, Madison, WI, 53705, USA.
(5)Division of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 53705, USA.

Treatment with rapamycin, an inhibitor of the mechanistic Target Of Rapamycin 
Complex One (mTORC1) protein kinase, has been repeatedly demonstrated to extend 
lifespan and prevent or delay age-related diseases in diverse model systems. 
Concerns over the risk of potentially serious side effects in humans, including 
immunosuppression and metabolic disruptions, have cautiously limited the 
translation of rapamycin and its analogs as a treatment for aging associated 
conditions. During the last decade, we and others have developed a working model 
that suggests that while inhibition of mTORC1 promotes healthy aging, many of 
the negative side effects of rapamycin are associated with "off-target" 
inhibition of a second mTOR complex, mTORC2. Differences in the kinetics and 
molecular mechanisms by which rapamycin inhibits mTORC1 and mTORC2 suggest that 
a therapeutic window for rapamycin could be exploited using intermittent dosing 
schedules or alternative rapalogs that may enable more selective inhibition of 
mTORC1. However, the optimal dosing schedules and the long-term efficacy of such 
interventions in humans are unknown. Here, we highlight ongoing or upcoming 
clinical trials that will address outstanding questions regarding the safety, 
pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and efficacy of rapamycin and rapalogs on 
several clinically oriented outcomes. Results from these early phase studies 
will help guide the design of phase 3 clinical trials to determine whether 
rapamycin can be used safely to inhibit mTORC1 for the treatment and prevention 
of age-related diseases in humans.

Â© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to American Aging Association.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-023-00935-x
PMCID: PMC10643772
PMID: 37801202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DWL has received funding from, and is a 
scientific advisory board member of, Aeovian Pharmaceuticals, which seeks to 
develop novel, selective mTOR inhibitors for the treatment of various diseases. 
Aeovian Pharmaceutical mTOR inhibitors will not be used in the clinical trials 
discussed within this manuscript.
