1. Distal Radius Fractures.

Corsino CB(1), Reeves RA(2), Sieg RN(1).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Aug 8.

Author information:
(1)Carl R. Darnall Army Medical Center
(2)Thomas Jefferson University

Emergency Department and primary care clinics are frequently called on to 
evaluate orthopedic complaints. It is essential for most providers to feel 
confident in the management of fundamental orthopedic problems. Fractures 
involving the distal radius (DR) of the forearm are common. The incidence of 
radial fractures is increasing as life expectancy grows, leading to a larger 
population of patients who are at risk for these injuries. Distal radial 
fractures are seen predominantly in children/adolescents and the elderly. 
Fracture patterns, management, and complications differ between these age 
groups. It is crucial for providers to understand these distinctions, to know 
which fracture patterns are emergent, and to refer for further management in an 
appropriate time frame. Providers must have an understanding of forearm and 
wrist anatomy, and the recommendation here is that that readers review this 
topic in conjunction with this article. This chapter will review the 
epidemiology/etiology, as well as the eponymous fractures, management, and 
complications of distal radial fractures.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 30725601

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Carlin Corsino declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Russell Reeves 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. 
Disclosure: Ryan Sieg declares no relevant financial relationships with 
ineligible companies.
