1. Iliotibial Band Friction Syndrome.

Hadeed A, Tapscott DC(1).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 May 23.

Author information:
(1)Springfield Clinic/Southern Illinois University

Knee pain has been reported to limit mobility and impair quality of life in 25% 
of adults. Iliotibial band syndrome (ITBS) is one of the many different causes 
of lateral knee pain. It was first seen in US Marine Corps recruits during their 
training in 1975 and has been diagnosed frequently in long-distance runners, 
cyclists, skiers, and participants of hockey, basketball, and soccer since then. 
These activities all depend on rapid and prolonged cycling of the knee through 
flexion and extension. This article will discuss how this cycling can cause the 
syndrome, as well as, discuss evaluation and treatment modalities.  The 
iliotibial band (ITB) is the distal fascial continuation of the tensor fascia 
lata, gluteus medius, and gluteal maximus. It traverses superficial to the 
vastus lateralis and inserts on the Gerdy tubercle of the lateral tibial plateau 
and partially to the supracondylar ridge of the lateral femur. There is also an 
anterior extension called the iliopatella band that connects the lateral patella 
and prevents medial translation of the patella. The ITB functions as a knee 
extensor when the knee is less than 30 degrees of flexion but becomes a knee 
flexor after exceeding 30 degrees of flexion. The ITB has been postulated to 
acquire a more posterior position relative to the lateral femoral epicondyle 
with increasing degrees of flexion.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 31194342

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Andrew Hadeed declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: David Tapscott 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.
