1. Neuroanatomy, Retina.

Mahabadi N(1), Al Khalili Y(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Aug 8.

Author information:
(1)A.T. Still University
(2)Virginia Commonwealth University

The retina is the innermost layer in the eye that is responsible for the visual 
processing that turns light energy from photons into three-dimensional images. 
Located in the posterior portion of the eyeball, the retina is the only 
extension of the brain that can be viewed from the outside world and gives 
ophthalmologists a rare window into real-time pathology affecting the retina. 
Development of the retina is a long and complex process that begins during the 
fourth week of embryogenesis and continues into the first year of life. This 
long and complex embryonic development makes the retina vulnerable to genetic 
and environmental insults that can negatively affect retinal development. 
Retinal tissue develops to become the most metabolically expensive tissue in the 
human body, consuming oxygen more rapidly than any other tissue. The retina is 
fed oxygen from a unique dual blood supply that divides the retina into outer 
and inner layers for more efficient oxygenation. The retina itself consists of 
six different cell lines divided into ten different layers, each playing a 
specific role in creating and transmitting vision. The different cell types 
perform a particular role and form functional circuits that specialize in 
detecting specific variations and movements of light.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 31424894

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Navid Mahabadi declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Yasir Al Khalili 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.
