1. Semin Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2023 Spring;35(1):44-52. doi: 
10.1053/j.semtcvs.2021.08.019. Epub 2021 Aug 29.

Mitral Valve Repair Versus Replacement in The Elderly.

Ko K(1), de Kroon TL(2), Schut KF(3), Kelder JC(4), Saouti N(5), van Putte 
BP(6).

Author information:
(1)Cardiothoracic Surgery, St Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, The Netherlands; 
Cardiothoracic Surgery, Radboud UMC, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Electronic 
address: kinsingko@gmail.com.
(2)Cardiothoracic Surgery, St Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, The Netherlands.
(3)Cardiothoracic Surgery, University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Epidemiology, St Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, The Netherlands.
(5)Cardiothoracic Surgery, St Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, The Netherlands; 
Cardiothoracic Surgery, Amphia Hospita, Breda, The Netherlands.
(6)Cardiothoracic Surgery, St Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, The Netherlands; 
Cardiothoracic Surgery, University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The disadvantages of mitral valve replacement with a bioprosthesis in the 
long-term may not play an important role if the shorter life expectancy of older 
patients is taken into account. This study aims to evaluate whether mitral valve 
replacement in the elderly is associated with similar outcome compared to repair 
in the short- and long-term. All patients aged 70 years and older undergoing 
minimally invasive mitral valve surgery were studied retrospectively. Primary 
outcome was 30-day complication rate, secondary outcome was long-term survival 
and freedom from re-operation. 223 Patients underwent surgery (124 replacement 
and 99 repair) with a mean age of 76.4 ± 4.2 years. 30-Day complication rate 
(replacement 73.4% versus repair 67.7%; p=.433), 30-day mortality (replacement 
4.0% versus repair 1.0%; p=.332) and 30-day stroke rate (replacement 0.0% versus 
repair 1.0%; p=.910) were similar in both groups. Multivariable cox regression 
revealed higher age, diabetes and left ventricular dysfunction as predictors for 
reduced long-term survival, while a valve replacement was no predictor for 
reduced survival. Sub analysis of patients with degenerative disease showed no 
difference in long-term survival after propensity weighting (HR 1.4; 95%CI 0.84 
- 2.50; p=.282). The current study reveals that mitral valve repair and 
replacement in the elderly can be achieved with good short- and long-term 
results. Long-term survival was dependent on patient related risk factors and 
not on the type of operation (replacement versus repair).

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semtcvs.2021.08.019
PMID: 34469799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
