1. Clin Rev Allergy Immunol. 2023 Jun;64(3):262-283. doi: 
10.1007/s12016-021-08889-8. Epub 2021 Sep 6.

Current Concepts on the Pathogenesis of Systemic Sclerosis.

Truchetet ME(1)(2), Brembilla NC(3), Chizzolini C(4).

Author information:
(1)ImmunoConcEpt, CNRS, UMR 5164, University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(2)Rheumatology Department, CHU Bordeaux Hospital, Bordeaux, France.
(3)Pathology and Immunology, School of Medicine, University Medical Center, 
Geneva, Switzerland.
(4)Pathology and Immunology, School of Medicine, University Medical Center, 
Geneva, Switzerland. carlo.chizzolini@unige.ch.

From the clinical standpoint, systemic sclerosis (SSc) is characterized by skin 
and internal organ fibrosis, diffuse fibroproliferative vascular modifications, 
and autoimmunity. Clinical presentation and course are highly heterogenous and 
life expectancy variably affected mostly dependent on lung and heart 
involvement. SSc touches more women than men with differences in disease 
severity and environmental exposure. Pathogenetic events originate from altered 
homeostasis favored by genetic predisposition, environmental cues and a variety 
of endogenous and exogenous triggers. Epigenetic modifications modulate SSc 
pathogenesis which strikingly associate profound immune-inflammatory 
dysregulation, abnormal endothelial cell behavior, and cell 
trans-differentiation into myofibroblasts. SSc myofibroblasts show enhanced 
survival and enhanced extracellular matrix deposition presenting altered 
structure and altered physicochemical properties. Additional cell types of 
likely pathogenic importance are pericytes, platelets, and keratinocytes in 
conjunction with their relationship with vessel wall cells and fibroblasts. In 
SSc, the profibrotic milieu is favored by cell signaling initiated in the one 
hand by transforming growth factor-beta and related cytokines and in the other 
hand by innate and adaptive type 2 immune responses. Radical oxygen species and 
invariant receptors sensing danger participate to altered cell behavior. 
Conventional and SSc-specific T cell subsets modulate both fibroblasts as well 
as endothelial cell dysfunction. Beside autoantibodies directed against 
ubiquitous antigens important for enhanced clinical classification, 
antigen-specific agonistic autoantibodies may have a pathogenic role. Recent 
studies based on single-cell RNAseq and multi-omics approaches are revealing 
unforeseen heterogeneity in SSc cell differentiation and functional states. 
Advances in system biology applied to the wealth of data generated by unbiased 
screening are allowing to subgroup patients based on distinct pathogenic 
mechanisms. Deciphering heterogeneity in pathogenic mechanisms will pave the way 
to highly needed personalized therapeutic approaches.

Â© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12016-021-08889-8
PMCID: PMC10167130
PMID: 34487318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.
