1. J Ethics. 2023;27(1):7-29. doi: 10.1007/s10892-021-09379-x. Epub 2021 Sep 4.

State Authority, Parental Authority, and the Rights of Mature Minors.

Tunick M(1).

Author information:
(1)Wilkes Honors College, FAU, 5353 Parkside Drive, Jupiter, FL 33458 USA.

When mature minors face a decision with important consequences, such as whether 
to undergo a risky but potentially life-saving medical procedure, who should 
decide? Relying on liberal political theory's account of the importance of 
decisional autonomy for adults, and given the scalar nature of the capacities 
needed to exercise decisional autonomy, I argue that mature minors with the 
requisite capacities and commitments have a right to decisional autonomy though 
they are not yet 18. I argue for this right using a 'balancing of interest' 
account of rights: the interest mature minors have in decisional autonomy 
outweighs their parents' interest in shaping their children as a means of 
'creative self-extension'. But I propose two limitations on this right: requests 
for waivers of the rule that one must be at least 18 to decide cannot be so 
numerous as to make adjudication impractical; and though a competent adult's 
voluntary decision to refuse medical treatment should generally be respected, 
the state may reject a mature minor's decision upon review by an indifferent 
judge of the minor's capacities and reasons. The judge reviews not the 
substantive merits or prudence of the decision, but whether the decision 
promotes the interest in decisional autonomy, by asking among other things 
whether the decision is the minor's own, is tethered to core commitments rather 
than based on arbitrary preferences, and could be regarded as reasonable to the 
minor's 'future self'.

Â© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s10892-021-09379-x
PMCID: PMC8418455
PMID: 34512117
