1. J Women Aging. 2023 Mar-Apr;35(2):139-151. doi: 10.1080/08952841.2021.1999734.
 Epub 2021 Nov 2.

Aging in rural Nigeria: gendered exclusion of rural older adults and its impact 
on their perceived life satisfaction in South-East Nigeria.

Ekoh PC(1)(2), Chukwu NE(1), Okoye UO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Work, University of Nigeria, Nsukka.
(2)Faculty of Social Work, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada.

Globally, there is an immense increase in the number of older adults. This can 
be attributed to an increase in life expectancy brought about by advances in 
general living standards as well as medicine and healthcare. However, exclusion 
which is linked to discrimination and access restrictions in areas such as 
education, employment, housing, and medical care has been identified as one of 
the challenges facing this increasing demographic. This study explored the 
exclusion of older rural women in southeast Nigeria and its impact on their life 
satisfaction. The study used a qualitative method of research to obtain data 
from a sample of 32 older adults aged 65Â years and above through focus group 
discussions in Nru community in Nsukka Local Government Area of Enugu State. The 
obtained data were thematically analyzed and the findings showed that many older 
rural women in the study area are socially excluded at home, churches, and the 
larger society, with poverty and stereotyping of older rural women as less 
intelligent identified as the leading factor predisposing them to social 
exclusion in Nigeria. Results also showed that social exclusion brings about 
sadness and depression which have severe negative implications on their life 
satisfaction. Finally, implications of the findings for gerontological social 
workers through advocacy geared toward changes in social policy and structures 
that promote ageism were discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/08952841.2021.1999734
PMID: 34724879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
