1. Indian J Dermatol Venereol Leprol. 2023 May-Jun;89(3):421-425. doi: 
10.25259/IJDVL_978_20.

The burden of skin diseases in India: Global Burden of Disease Study 2017.

Kavita A(1), Thakur JS(2), Narang T(3).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Nursing Education, Chandigarh, India.
(2)Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, Chandigarh, 
India.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Leprology, Postgraduate Institute 
of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.

Background The prevalence of skin diseases has increased over the last few 
decades, and they contribute to a significant burden on health-care systems 
across the world. Aims/Objective This report looks at the burden of skin and 
subcutaneous diseases in terms of years lived with disability and 
agestandardised years lived with disability in India using the Global Burden of 
Disease Study results from 2017. Methods Data were obtained from the Global 
Burden of Disease online interactive tool. Updated estimates of the world's 
health for 359 diseases and injuries and 84 risk factors from 1990 to 2017 are 
available in this interactive tool. Results Years lived with disability due to 
skin and subcutaneous diseases accounted for 4.02% of the total years lived with 
disability in India in 2017. There was an increase of 53.7% in all age 
standardised years lived with disability for all the skin and subcutaneous 
diseases from 1990 to 2017. Among skin and subcutaneous diseases, dermatitis 
contributed maximum years lived with disability (1.40 million; 95% uncertainty 
interval, 0.82-2.21) in 2017, followed by urticaria (1.02 million; 95% 
uncertainty interval, 0.06-1.44) with percentage increases of 48.9% and 45.7% 
respectively. Conclusion The burden due to infectious skin diseases (e.g., 
scabies, fungal skin disease and bacterial skin disease) and non-infectious 
diseases (e.g., dermatitis, urticaria and psoriasis) has increased over the past 
three decades, however the age-standardised years lived with disability for 
leprosy, scabies, fungal infections, sexually transmitted infections and 
non-melanoma skin cancer (basal cell carcinoma) has decreased. The high burden 
of skin and subcutaneous diseases demand that they be given due importance in 
the national programmes and health policy of India.

DOI: 10.25259/IJDVL_978_20
PMID: 34877854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
