1. Vascular. 2023 Feb;31(1):98-106. doi: 10.1177/17085381211056434. Epub 2021 Dec
 18.

Carotid endarterectomy in asymptomatic octogenarians: Outcomes at 30 days and 5 
years.

Ucci A(1), de Troia A(1)(2), D'Ospina RM(1), Pedrazzi G(1), Nabulsi B(2), 
Azzarone M(1)(2), Perini P(2), Massoni CB(2), Rossi G(2), Freyrie A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Surgery, 9370University of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(2)Department Cardio Thoracic and Vascular Surgery, Unit of Vascular Surgery, 
18630University Hospital of Parma.

BACKGROUND: The following study investigated the 30-day and 5-year relative 
survival rate and freedom from neurological events in asymptomatic carotid 
stenosis (ACS) octogenarians who had undergone elective carotid endarterectomy 
(CEA).
METHODS: Between January 2008 and June 2014, a retrospective review was 
conducted on ACS patients who had undergone elective CEA. The patients' sample 
was divided into two groups: Group A (GA) included octogenarians and Group B 
(GB) included younger patients. The GA patients were subjected to a risk-scoring 
system and follow-up. The two groups were compared analysing the following 
primary endpoints: 30-day mortality, stroke, stroke/death and acute myocardial 
infarction (AMI); GA patients' survival rate and freedom from neurological 
events at 5 years. The 30-day secondary endpoints included carotid shunting, 
redo surgical, need for general anaesthesia with preserved consciousness (GAPC) 
conversion and length of hospital stay.
RESULTS: We identified 620 patients with ACS, of them 144 (23.2%) belonged to 
the GA and 476 (76.8%) belonged to the GB. No statistical difference between the 
two groups was found regarding the primary and secondary endpoints. One hundred 
nineteen of 144 GA patients (82.6%) underwent the follow-up; the median 
follow-up was 78.3 months. The GA patients' 5-year survival rate was 62%, while 
freedom from cerebral events was 94.9%. Analysis regarding GA patients' 5-year 
survival rate revealed a significantly lower percentage among the patients with 
a severe risk score compared with those with a moderate risk score 
(respectively, 29.5% vs 67.7%; p = .005). The multivariate analysis showed that 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and chronic kidney disease (CKD) 
were independently associated with lower survival.
CONCLUSIONS: The 30-day outcomes of CEA in octogenarians are comparable to those 
in younger patients. Comprehensive life expectancy and preoperative score, 
rather than age alone, should be taken into account before performing CEA on 
octogenarian patients, considering the short- and long-term efficacy in stroke 
prevention.

DOI: 10.1177/17085381211056434
PMID: 34923864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
