1. Mass Spectrom Rev. 2023 Sep-Oct;42(5):1647-1687. doi: 10.1002/mas.21768. Epub 
2021 Dec 29.

Analysis of vitamin D metabolic markers by mass spectrometry: Recent progress 
regarding the "gold standard" method and integration into clinical practice.

Alexandridou A(1), Schorr P(1), Stokes CS(2)(3), Volmer DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioanalytical Chemistry, Humboldt University Berlin, Berlin, 
Germany.
(2)Food and Health Research Group, Faculty of Life Sciences, 
Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(3)Department of Molecular Toxicology, German Institute of Human Nutrition, 
Potsdam-Rehbrücke, Germany.

Liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry is firmly established today as 
the gold standard technique for analysis of vitamin D, both for vitamin D status 
assessments as well as for measuring complex and intricate vitamin D metabolic 
fingerprints. While the actual mass spectrometry technology has seen only 
incremental performance increases in recent years, there have been major, very 
impactful changes in the front- and back-end of MS-based vitamin D assays; for 
example, the extension to new types of biological sample matrices analyzed for 
an increasing number of different vitamin D metabolites, novel sample 
preparation techniques, new powerful chemical derivatization reagents, as well 
the continued integration of high resolution mass spectrometers into clinical 
laboratories, replacing established triple-quadrupole instruments. At the same 
time, the sustainability of mass spectrometry operation in the vitamin D field 
is now firmly established through proven analytical harmonization and 
standardization programs. The present review summarizes the most important of 
these recent developments.

© 2021 The Authors. Mass Spectrometry Reviews published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mas.21768
PMID: 34967037
