1. AIDS Care. 2023 Jul;35(7):1045-1054. doi: 10.1080/09540121.2021.2023729. Epub 
2022 Jan 5.

Fertility care expectations: what do PLHIV and health care providers in Jamaica 
know about assisted reproduction services for safe conception?

Carroll K(1), Pottinger AM(2), Pinkney J(3), Christie LR(1), Hamilton PI(1), 
Thompson MS(4).

Author information:
(1)The Hugh Wynter Fertility Management Unit, The University of the West Indies, 
Kingston, Jamaica.
(2)Department of Child and Adolescent Health, The University of the West Indies, 
Kingston, Jamaica.
(3)Division of Infectious Diseases, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, The University of the West Indies, 
Kingston, Jamaica.

Increased life expectancy among persons living with HIV (PLHIV) has increased 
the desire for parenthood. It is therefore important that PLHIV and health care 
providers (HCPs) are aware of the available assisted reproduction services (ARS) 
for PLHIV facing infertility or unsuppressed viremia. Through secondary data 
analysis we identified PLHIV who were actively trying to conceive and their 
knowledge of ARS. As specialized fertility care for PLHIV is managed by 
Obstetrician/Gynecologists (Ob/Gyns), they were surveyed regarding their 
attitudes towards working with PLHIV and their awareness and knowledge of ARS 
with a self-administered questionnaire. In this cross-sectional study, 251 PLHIV 
and 102 Ob/Gyns were recruited and interviewed using a semi-structured 
questionnaire. Although most Ob/Gyns (81%) reported being supportive of PLHIV 
having children, 85% counseled against pregnancy, particularly persons in HIV 
serodifferent relationships. Significantly more PLHIV under 40 years compared to 
those over 40 years had heard about ARS (59% vs. 43%, p = .007). Ob/Gyns were 
more knowledgeable of expensive ARS, while PLHIV's knowledge was more restricted 
to cheaper more accessible ones. In conclusion Ob/Gyns knowledge gaps and 
underlying stereotypes may present barriers to PLHIV's uptake of ARS. 
Additionally, virologically unsuppresed persons in HIV serodifferent 
relationships may be vulnerable as Ob/Gyns were less supportive of them.

DOI: 10.1080/09540121.2021.2023729
PMID: 34986729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
