1. J Gastrointest Cancer. 2023 Mar;54(1):11-19. doi: 10.1007/s12029-021-00789-6. 
Epub 2022 Feb 4.

Advanced Hepatocellular Cancer Treated with Sorafenib and Novel Inflammatory 
Markers.

Gulmez A(1), Harputluoglu H(2).

Author information:
(1)Adana Research and Training State Hospital, Adana, Turkey. 
doktor.ahmetgulmez@gmail.com.
(2)Medical Oncology Department, Inonu University, Malatya, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: Hepatocellular cancer (HCC) is an aggressive tumor with an increasing 
incidence in recent years. Life expectancy is limited, especially due to limited 
effective treatments and tumor biology. In this study, we aimed to examine the 
effect of neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), 
prognostic nutritional index (PNI) parameters of treatment efficacy of patients 
using sorafenib in primary systemic therapy, progression-free survival (PFS), 
and overall survival (OS).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, we retrospectively analyzed 78 patients 
who used sorafenib as a first-line systemic treatment. NLR, PLR, and PNI values 
were calculated with the existing formulas. Cut-off values for these markers 
were determined by performing ROC curve analysis. These values were determined 
respectively as 2.88, 111.05, and 38.25. Patients were divided into two groups 
according to this threshold value. OS and PFS values were calculated using a Cox 
proportional risk model. The effects of markers on OS and PFS were examined 
based on the cut-off value.
RESULTS: The mean PFS was 7.1 (range 1-46) months, and the mean OS was 14.1 
(range 1.5-94) months. The pre-treatment decreased NLR (< 2.88) value was 
prognostic for higher PFS and OS rates. These values were determined 
respectively as 9.23 ± 1.79 and 3.45 ± 0.32 months for PFS and 21.17 ± 4.53 and 
5.32 ± 0.53 months for OS. Pre-treatment decreased PLR (< 111.05) was found to 
be a positively significant prognostic value for both survival. These values 
were determined respectively as 7.37 ± 1.43 months and 3.16 ± 0.47 months for 
PFS and 21.12 ± 5.52 months and 6.16 ± 0.87 months for OS. And also, low PNI 
(< 38.25) value was prognostic for lower PFS and rates. These values were 
determined respectively as 7.47 ± 0.59 months and 3.25 ± 0.21 months for PFS and 
16.36 ± 4.37 months and 5.15 ± 0.42 for OS. All three parameters were found to 
be statistically significant (p < 0.05) for both OS and PFS as independent 
prognostic markers.
CONCLUSION: Today, as the standard first-line treatment of HCC has shifted to 
combinations with immunotherapy (IO), IO transportation is not possible in most 
countries of the world. However, there are also patients who achieve great 
survival with only sorafenib. The important point is to identify the biomarkers 
that predict which patient will benefit better from which treatment. With the 
markers in our study and a scoring system that can be obtained with these 
markers, it can be evaluated which patient will be given IO combination and 
which patient will be given only TKI treatment. We think that such a scoring 
system can be used to identify suitable patients, especially in countries where, 
for financial reasons, not every patient can access Immunotherapy. The advantage 
of these tests is that they are inexpensive, easily calculable and standardized.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Number and date of registration: 2021/2088, 01-06-2021, 
retrospectively registered.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12029-021-00789-6
PMID: 35119620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
