1. J Prosthet Dent. 2023 Dec;130(6):849-857. doi: 10.1016/j.prosdent.2021.12.020.
 Epub 2022 Feb 12.

Implant survival rate and marginal bone loss with the all-on-4 immediate-loading 
strategy: A clinical retrospective study with 1 to 4 years of follow-up.

Yang Q(1), Guan X(2), Wang B(3), Zhang D(1), Bai J(1), Zhang X(1), Zhou Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Graduate student, Graduate Implantology, Stomatology Hospital, School of 
Stomatology, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Zhejiang, PR China.
(2)Deputy chief dentist, Department of Endodontics, Stomatology Hospital, School 
of Stomatology, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Zhejiang, PR China.
(3)Attending dentist, Department of Implantology, Stomatology Hospital, School 
of Stomatology, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Zhejiang, PR China.
(4)Deputy chief dentist, Department of Implantology, Stomatology Hospital, 
School of Stomatology, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Zhejiang, PR 
China. Electronic address: zyuthscsa@zju.edu.cn.

STATEMENT OF PROBLEM: Assessing peri-implant marginal bone loss (MBL) and its 
risk factors with cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) may clarify the risk 
factors for the all-on-4 (5 or 6) strategy and further improve its survival 
rate.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this retrospective clinical study was to evaluate the 
implant survival rate, MBL, and associated risk factors of all-on-4 (5 or 6) 
prostheses after 1 to 4 years of follow-up with CBCT.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 56 participants rehabilitated with 325 implants 
by using the all-on-4 (5 or 6) concept between October 2015 and December 2019 
were included. Outcome measures were cumulative implant survival (life-table 
analysis) and MBL. Four CBCT scans, a scan immediately after surgery (T0), a 
scan 1 year after surgery (T1), a scan 2 years after surgery (T2), and a scan 3 
to 4 years after treatment (T3), were obtained to evaluate the MBL. The Pearson 
correlation coefficient analysis and linear mixed models were performed to 
assess the potential risk factors for MBL (α=.05).
RESULTS: The implant survival rate was 99.38%, and the prosthesis survival rate 
was 100%. The reductions in the vertical buccal bone height (△VBBH) were 0.74 
±0.10 mm (T0-T1), 0.37 ±0.12 mm (T1-T2), and 0.15 ±0.14 mm (T2-T3). Except for 
T2-T3, the △VBBH showed a significant difference at T0-T1 and T1-T2 (P≤.05). The 
alterations in vertical mesial bone height (VMBH), vertical distal bone height 
(VDBH), and vertical lingual bone height (VLBH) were similar to the trend 
observed in VBBH. The △VBBH (T0-T3) was negatively correlated with the 
horizontal buccal bone thickness (HBBT) (T0) (r=-.394, P<.001). Linear mixed 
models revealed that factors such as smoking (P=.001), mandible implant site 
(P<.001), immediate implant (P=.026), tilted implant (P<.001), female sex 
(P=.003), systemic disease (P=.025), and bruxism (P=.022) negatively affected 
MBL. The cantilever length (CL) also had a negative effect on MBL around the 
implants at the distal extension (P<.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The high implant and prosthesis survival rates and low MBL 
confirmed the predictability of the all-on-4 (5 or 6) concept. Smoking, mandible 
implant site, systemic disease, bruxism, female sex, immediate implant, tilted 
implant, and CL were identified as potential risk factors for MBL.

Copyright © 2022 Editorial Council for the Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prosdent.2021.12.020
PMID: 35168818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
