1. Brain. 2023 Jan 5;146(1):124-134. doi: 10.1093/brain/awac042.

Cause-specific mortality and life years lost in people with epilepsy: a Danish 
cohort study.

Dreier JW(1)(2), Laursen TM(1)(2), Tomson T(3), Plana-Ripoll O(1)(2), 
Christensen J(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Register-based Research, Business and Social Sciences, 
Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(2)Centre for Integrated Register-Based Research (CIRRAU), Aarhus University, 
Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Department of Neurology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.

Mortality rates are two to three times higher in people with epilepsy than in 
the general population. This study aimed to quantify how this increased 
mortality translates into reduced life expectancy and to identify the underlying 
causes of deaths, thereby offering suggestions for how to reduce mortality 
associated with epilepsy. In this population-based cohort study, we included all 
individuals aged 0-94 years who were living in Denmark between 2000 and 2015. 
Using the nationwide registers, we identified people diagnosed with epilepsy and 
estimated the excess of life years lost due to 13 overall and nine specific 
causes of death. Among 6 022 160 people, we identified 129 598 with epilepsy 
(52.6% males), with a mean age of epilepsy onset of 36.5 years (standard 
deviation = 26.3 years). During the 16 years of follow-up, 851 087 individuals 
died, and of these 36 923 had been diagnosed with epilepsy. The average 
reduction in life expectancy in people with epilepsy was 11.84 years in males 
(95% confidence interval: 11.66-12.00) and 10.91 years in females (95% 
confidence interval: 10.70-11.11) compared to the general population. Life 
expectancy was reduced irrespective of epilepsy aetiology (symptomatic ∼14 
years; idiopathic ∼8-10 years), and in particular in people with epilepsy and 
psychiatric comorbidity (∼13-16 years). Excess mortality was evident across all 
causes of death including cardiovascular disorders, accidents, and suicide. 
People with epilepsy experience a substantial reduction in lifespan that can 
only partly be explained by underlying conditions. Prevention of 
epilepsy-related deaths should focus on the consequences of psychiatric 
comorbidity and on modifiable risk factors associated with preventable causes of 
death such as accidents and neurological and cardiovascular disorders.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awac042
PMID: 35234848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
