1. Environ Dev Sustain. 2023;25(4):3649-3670. doi: 10.1007/s10668-022-02195-9.
Epub  2022 Feb 25.

Honing action competence in sustainable development: what happens in classrooms 
matters.

Sass W(1), De Maeyer S(1), Boeve-de Pauw J(1), Van Petegem P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Training and Education Sciences, Faculty of Social Sciences, 
Research Unit Edubron, University of Antwerp, Sint-Jacobstraat 2, 2000 Antwerp, 
Belgium.

In effectiveness literature, voices are rising to embrace learning contents 
beyond mathematics, science, and language. Meanwhile, international policy 
documents such as the United Nations 2019 Climate Action Summit Report point at 
the importance of action for sustainable development for establishing acceptable 
life conditions for current and future generations. Therefore, a candidate 
learning outcome for broadening effectiveness research's scope is action 
competence in sustainable development (ACiSD), which consists of the relevant 
knowledge, willingness, capacity expectations, and outcome expectancy regarding 
actions for sustainable development. In order to initiate adding ACiSD as a 
learning outcome to effectiveness research, the current study contributed to 
establishing that formal education plays a part in changes in students' ACiSD. 
Firstly, we studied how much variance in ACiSD can be attributed to what happens 
in classrooms. Secondly, we looked into how class groups' and early adolescent 
students' ACiSD changed after one school year. Following recommendations for 
rigour in effectiveness research, we performed multilevel analyses on survey 
data (question one: n = 1398; question two: n = 633). Our evidence showed that 
11% of variance in ACiSD was attributable to what happens in classrooms with 
explained variance in the subconstructs ranging between 7.2 and 14.2%. 
Furthermore, individual students as well as class groups showed higher ACiSD 
scores when comparing measurements at beginning and end of one school year. We 
conclude that the classroom level matters to changes in ACiSD within early 
adolescents. Further research can now look into how and to which extent 
teachers' educational approaches affect these changes.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2022.

DOI: 10.1007/s10668-022-02195-9
PMCID: PMC8872799
PMID: 35233184
