1. Arq Bras Oftalmol. 2023 Mar-Apr;86(2):131-136. doi:
10.5935/0004-2749.20230036.

Analysis of ocular surface and quality of life in patients with corneal and 
conjunctival tumors.

Magalhães AM(1), Vieira RP(1), Fernandes TJM(1), Rocha CDS(2), Higino T(2), 
Ventura CV(1)(2)(3), Cavalcanti CM(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Fundação Altino Ventura, Recife, PE, Brazil.
(2)Department of Research, Fundação Altino Ventura, Recife, PE, Brazil.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Hospital de Olhos de Pernambuco, Recife, PE, 
Brazil.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the impact of corneal and conjunctival tumors on the ocular 
surface and quality of life of patients before and after surgical treatment.
METHODS: This prospective study conducted a preoperative and 30- and 90-day 
postoperative assessment of patients diagnosed with conjunctival and corneal 
tumors. Demographic data were collected preoperatively. The 12-Item Short-Form 
Health Survey (SF-12) and Ocular Surface Disease Index (OSDI) questionnaires 
were applied to assess patients' quality of life and perception of their 
vision-related functions. The tear breakup time and Schirmer tests were 
performed for ocular surface evaluation. The tumor extensions were measured 
using ImageJ image analysis software.
RESULTS: Twenty-three patients were enrolled. The mean age at examination was 
52.8 ± 17.3 years (range: 27-9 years). The most common tumor type was squamous 
cell carcinoma (61.5%). The patients' visual acuity improved significantly at 1 
month and 3 months (p=0.018 and p=0.036, respectively). No significant 
differences were found between tear breakup time and Schirmer tests 
preoperatively and at 3 months postoperatively (p=0.150 and p=0.490, 
respectively). The SF-12 scores demonstrated significant differences between the 
preoperative and 30- and 90-day postoperative mental components (p=0.008 and 
p=0.026, respectively). Tumor extension was 868.7 ± 344.9 pixels (range, 
224.6-1481.6 pixels) and were significantly correlated with the preoperative 
(p=0.011), 30-day postoperative (p=0.017), and 90-day postoperative (p=0.012) 
SF-12 mental components, as well as the emotional component at the 30th 
postoperative day (p=0.016).
CONCLUSION: Patients with corneal and conjunctival tumors improved their ocular 
symptoms, visual acuity, and the emotional component of their quality of life 
after surgical excision of the tumor.

DOI: 10.5935/0004-2749.20230036
PMID: 35319647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
