1. Int J Health Econ Manag. 2023 Jun;23(2):173-187. doi: 
10.1007/s10754-022-09328-7. Epub 2022 Apr 6.

Combining remaining life expectancy and time to death as a measure of old-age 
dependency related to health care needs.

Spijker JJA(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre d'Estudis Demogràfics, Edifici E-2, Carrer de Ca n'Altayò, Campus UAB, 
08193, Bellaterra, Spain. jspijker@ced.uab.es.

Public concern about the rising number of older dependent citizens is still 
based mainly on standard population aging indicators. This includes the old-age 
dependency ratio (OADR), which divides the state pension age population by the 
working age population. However, the OADR counts neither the dependent elderly 
nor those who provide for them. This paper builds on previous research to 
propose several alternative indicators, including the health care (HC) 
need-adjusted real elderly dependency ratio and the HC need-adjusted dependent 
population-to-tax rate. These indicators consider improvements in old-age 
survival and time to death in order to better define the health care needs of 
the dependent old-age population and to better approximate their financial 
burden. We define the old-age population dependent on health care as those above 
the age at which remaining life expectancy is 15 years or less and are expected 
to die within 5 years. We use data from the US to illustrate differences between 
the proposed new and standard measures. Results show that, as a share of the 
total population, the old-age population dependent on health care has virtually 
not changed since 1950. Moreover, increases in GDP and state tax revenue have 
outstripped population aging almost continuously since 1970, irrespective of the 
indicator used, and they are expected to continue to do so during the coming 
decade. The demand for health care services is therefore not being fueled by 
population aging but instead by other factors such as progress in medical 
knowledge and technology, costs of hospitalization, and the increasing use of 
long-term care facilities.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10754-022-09328-7
PMCID: PMC8985398
PMID: 35384565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
