1. Curr Drug Deliv. 2023;20(3):237-249. doi: 10.2174/1567201819666220408094520.

Current Novel Drug Deliveries for Oral Cancer: A Chronotherapeutic Approach.

Sutar KP(1), Shirkoli NS(2), Sutar PS(3), Kurangi BK(1), Dandagi PM(1), 
Masareddy R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, KLE College of Pharmacy, KLE Academy of Higher 
Education and Research, Nehru Nagar, Belagavi 590010, Karnataka, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Quality Assurance, KLE College of Pharmacy, KLE 
Academy of Higher Education and Research, Nehru Nagar, Belagavi 590010, 
Karnataka, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy, Maratha Mandal's College of Pharmacy, M M 
Extension, Belagavi 590010, Karnataka, India.

Oral squamous cell carcinoma is a malignant disease that is causing considerable 
mortality worldwide. Conventional treatment approaches, like surgery, cause 
destructive alterations in facial appearance and oral function impairments 
associated with psychological and social functioning. Chemotherapy exhibits low 
bioaccessibility of the anticancer drugs, multiple drug resistance, higher dose 
necessities, which elevate toxicities to the normal cells, low therapeutic 
index, and non-specific targeting. Radiation therapies significantly affect the 
well-being of the patient and impair the quality of life. Therefore, 
chemotherapeutics are developed that can either actively or passively target the 
carcinomas, reduce the adverse side effect, and improve therapeutic efficacy. 
Innovations in novel drug delivery systems deliver the drugs to the desired site 
of action with better treatment approaches with reduced toxicities to the normal 
cells and improve the health and survival rate of the patient. Cancer 
chronotherapy enhances the treatment proficiency by administration of the drugs 
at the best time, considering biological timings to improve the treatment 
profiles. Chronotherapy provides benefits to the current anticancer therapies, 
with minimum adverse effects to the healthy cells. This review discusses the 
risk factors for oral carcinomas, targeted therapy by nanocarriers, 
nanotechnology approaches, the role of circadian rhythm in the management of 
oral cancer, and advances in controlled drug delivery.

CopyrightÂ© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1567201819666220408094520
PMID: 35400343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
