1. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2023 Apr;195(4):2587-2596. doi: 
10.1007/s12010-021-03514-y. Epub 2022 Apr 21.

Progeria-a Rare Genetic Condition with Accelerated Ageing Process.

Talukder P(1), Saha A(2), Roy S(2), Ghosh G(2), Dutta Roy D(2), Barua S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, University of Engineering and Management, 
University Area, Plot, Street Number 03, Action Area III, B/5, Newtown, Kolkata, 
West Bengal, 700156, India. pratik.talukder@uem.edu.in.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, University of Engineering and Management, 
University Area, Plot, Street Number 03, Action Area III, B/5, Newtown, Kolkata, 
West Bengal, 700156, India.

Progeria is a rare genetic disease which is characterised by accelerated ageing 
and reduced life span. There are differing types of progeria, but the classic 
type is Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS). Within a year of birth, 
people suffering from it start showing several features such as very low weight, 
scleroderma, osteoporosis and loss of hair. Their life expectancy is highly 
reduced and the average life span is around 14.6 years. Research is going on to 
understand the genetic and molecular level causes of this disease. Apart from 
that, several studies are also going on to discover therapeutic techniques and 
drugs to treat this disease but the success rate is very low. To gain a better 
understanding about research developments of progeria more experimental models, 
drugs and molecular technologies are under trial. Different important aspects 
and recent developments in epidemiology, genetic causes, symptoms, diagnosis and 
treatment options of progeria are discussed in this review.

Â© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-021-03514-y
PMID: 35445924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
