1. Scand J Public Health. 2023 Dec;51(8):1161-1172. doi:
10.1177/14034948221092285.  Epub 2022 May 10.

Socioeconomic inequalities in self-rated health in Japan, 32 European countries 
and the United States: an international comparative study.

Tanaka H(1)(2)(3), Nusselder WJ(1), Kobayashi Y(3), Mackenbach JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Public Health and Occupational Medicine, Mie University, Mie, 
Japan.
(3)Department of Public Health, Graduate School of Medicine, the University of 
Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

AIMS: Japan is known as a country with low self-rated health despite high life 
expectancy. We compared socioeconomic inequalities in self-rated health in Japan 
with those in 32 European countries and the US using nationally representative 
samples.
METHODS: We analysed individual data from the Comprehensive Survey of Living 
Conditions (Japan), the European Union Statistics on Income and Living 
Conditions, and the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (US) in 2016. We 
used ordered logistic regression models with four ordinal categories of 
self-rated health as an outcome, and educational level or occupational class as 
independent variables, controlling for age.
RESULTS: In Japan, about half the population perceived their health as 'fair', 
which was much higher than in Europe (â‰ˆ20-40%). The odds ratios of lower 
self-rated health among less educated men compared with more educated were 1.72 
(95% confidence interval (CI) 1.61-1.85) in Japan, and ranged from 1.67 to 4.74 
in Europe (pooled; 2.10 (95% CI 2.01-2.20)), and 6.65 (95% CI 6.22-7.12) in the 
US. The odds ratios of lower self-rated health among less educated women were 
1.79 (95% CI 1.65-1.95) in Japan, and ranged from 1.89 to 5.30 in Europe 
(pooled; 2.43 (95% CI 2.33-2.54)), and 8.82 (95% CI 8.29-9.38) in the US. 
Socioeconomic inequalities were large when self-rated health was low for 
European countries, but Japan and the US did not follow the pattern.
CONCLUSIONS: Japan has similar socioeconomic gradient patterns to European 
countries for self-rated health, and our findings revealed smaller socioeconomic 
inequalities in self-rated health in Japan compared with those in western 
countries.

DOI: 10.1177/14034948221092285
PMCID: PMC10642222
PMID: 35538617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.
