1. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2023 Apr;143(4):2209-2216. doi: 
10.1007/s00402-022-04475-5. Epub 2022 May 28.

How does systemic lupus erythematosus impact the peri-operative complication 
rates in primary hip arthroplasty? A national inpatient sample-based study.

Viswanathan VK(1), Sakthivelnathan V(2), Menedal A(3), Purudappa PP(4), 
Mounasamy V(5), Sambandam S(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of MSK Oncology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada. 
drvibu007@gmail.com.
(2)School of Medicine, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.
(3)Salem VA Medical Center, Salem, VA, USA.
(4)Boston University, Boston VAMC, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Department of Orthopedics, University of Texas Southwestern, Dallas VAMC, 
Dallas, TX, USA.
(6)University of Texas Southwestern, Dallas VAMC, Dallas, TX, USA.

INTRODUCTION: With prolonged life expectancy, the number of patients with 
systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) undergoing total hip arthroplasty (THA) has 
substantially increased over the past years. The post-operative outcome and 
complications in SLE are less clearly understood than other inflammatory 
diseases, due to limited availability of evidence within the literature.
METHODS: Using the National Inpatient Sample (NIS) database, patients who 
underwent THA between 2016 and 2019 were identified (ICD-10 CMP code). Patients 
were then classified into one of the two groups, namely those with SLE 
(ICD-10-CM; code710.0) or those without SLE (NSLE). Data regarding demographic 
details, co-morbidities, details regarding hospital stay, expenditure incurred, 
and complications encountered were analyzed, and compared between the groups.
RESULTS: Overall, among 367,894 patients undergoing THA, 1684 (0.5%) had SLE. 
Mean age of SLE (57.3 ± 14.5 years) patients undergoing THA was significantly 
lower than NSLE (65.9 ± 11.4 years) population (p = 0.001). There was a greater 
proportion of female patients in SLE group [89.6% (SLE) vs 55.8% (NSLE); 
p = 0.001]. SLE patients had a greater incidence of emergent hospital admissions 
(p = 0.04), longer hospital stay (p = 0.001), and higher hospital-related 
expenditure (p = 0.001). Among the peri-operative complications, SLE patients 
had significantly greater risk of developing post-operative anemia (p = 0.001), 
need for blood transfusion (p = 0.001), peri-prosthetic mechanical complications 
(p = 0.04), and prosthetic dislocations (p = 0.001). There was also a greater 
incidence of peri-prosthetic infections in the SLE group (p = 0.001).
CONCLUSION: The presence of SLE significantly lengthens hospital stay and 
augments healthcare-related costs in patients undergoing THA. The three main 
complications which may significantly affect the post-operative course of these 
patients include higher rates of post-operative anemia, peri-prosthetic 
infections, and early prosthetic dislocations.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-022-04475-5
PMID: 35643817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
