1. Surv Ophthalmol. 2023 Mar-Apr;68(2):211-224. doi: 
10.1016/j.survophthal.2022.05.002. Epub 2022 May 27.

Laser treatment for choroidal melanoma: Current concepts.

Maheshwari A(1), Finger PT(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ocular Tumor, Orbital Disease and Ophthalmic Radiation Therapy, 
The New York Eye Cancer Center, 115 East 61st Street, New York City, NY, 10065, 
USA. Electronic address: pfinger@eyecancer.com.
(2)Department of Ocular Tumor, Orbital Disease and Ophthalmic Radiation Therapy, 
The New York Eye Cancer Center, 115 East 61st Street, New York City, NY, 10065, 
USA.

Laser treatment has offered a relatively nonsurgical alternative for eye, life, 
and vision-sparing treatment of malignant melanoma of the choroid. Historically, 
the most commonly used forms of lasers were xenon-arc, argon laser, krypton 
laser, and the more recent transpupillary thermotherapy (TTT) and photodynamic 
therapy (PDT). Melanomas selected for laser treatment tend to be smaller and 
visibly accessible, which means these tumors are usually located in the 
posterior choroid. Laser treatments have been associated with both local tumor 
destruction and side effects. Unlike radiation therapy, laser treatment has been 
commonly associated with retinal traction, hemorrhage, chorioretinal 
neovascularization, and extra scleral tumor extension, as well as higher rates 
of local treatment failure. In addition, however, laser-treatment has been 
successfully used to treat tumor-related retinal detachments, radiation 
retinopathy, and neovascular glaucoma. We review the world's experience of 
ophthalmic laser treatment for choroidal melanoma, offer safety and efficacy 
guidelines, as well as a comparison of laser treatment to radiation therapy 
outcomes.

Copyright Â© 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2022.05.002
PMID: 35644256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
