1. Mini Rev Med Chem. 2023;23(1):33-52. doi: 10.2174/1389557522666220602103104.

Structural Perspective of Benzophenones Targeting Tubulin as Anticancer Agents.

Chourasia P(1), Asati V(2), Agarwal S(1), Kashaw V(3), Das R(4), Kashaw SK(1).

Author information:
(1)Integrated Drug Discovery Research Laboratory, Department of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Dr. Harisingh Gour University (A Central University), Sagar (MP), 
India.
(2)Department of Chemistry, ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga-Punjab, India.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sagar Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Sagar (M.P.) India.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Dr. Harisingh Gour University (A Central 
University), Sagar (MP), India.

Cancer is the leading cause of death and the most significant determinant of 
life expectancy in almost every country in this twenty-first century. According 
to the World Health Organization (WHO), cancer is responsible for the leading 
cause of death globally. Benzophenone derivatives are found in a variety of 
naturally occurring compounds which are known to be pharmacologically 
efficacious against a variety of diseases, including cancer. Microtubules are 
thought to be a good target for cancer chemotherapies. Microtubule 
polymerization and depolymerization are induced by a variety of natural, 
synthetic, and semisynthetic chemicals having a benzophenone nucleus, affecting 
tubulin dynamics. Several medications that affect microtubule dynamics are in 
various stages of clinical trials, including Combretastatins (phase II), 
Vincristine (clinically approved), Paclitaxel (in clinical usage), and 
epothilone (phase III), and only a few have been patented. Benzophenone 
derivatives target the colchicine binding site of microtubules, damage them and 
cause cell cycle arrest in the G2-M phase. Belonging to this class of molecules, 
phenstatin, a potent inhibitor of tubulin polymerization, has shown strongly 
inhibit cancer cell growth and arrest the G2/M phase of the cell cycle by 
targeting the colchicine binding site of microtubules. In the present 
manuscript, we described the benzophenone as tubulin polymerization inhibitors, 
their Structure-Activity Relationships (SARs) and molecular docking studies that 
reveal its binding affinity with the colchicine binding site.

CopyrightÂ© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1389557522666220602103104
PMID: 35657044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
