1. Semin Cell Dev Biol. 2023 May 15;140:82-89. doi: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2022.05.017.
 Epub 2022 Jun 1.

Mechanical regulation of synapse formation and plasticity.

Minegishi T(1), Kastian RF(2), Inagaki N(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Systems Neurobiology and Medicine, Division of Biological 
Science, Nara Institute of Science and Technology, Ikoma, Nara 630-0192, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Systems Neurobiology and Medicine, Division of Biological 
Science, Nara Institute of Science and Technology, Ikoma, Nara 630-0192, Japan; 
Research Center for Genetic Engineering, National Research and Innovation Agency 
Republic of Indonesia, Cibinong, Bogor, Indonesia.
(3)Laboratory of Systems Neurobiology and Medicine, Division of Biological 
Science, Nara Institute of Science and Technology, Ikoma, Nara 630-0192, Japan. 
Electronic address: ninagaki@bs.naist.jp.

Dendritic spines are small protrusions arising from dendrites and constitute the 
major compartment of excitatory post-synapses. They change in number, shape, and 
size throughout life; these changes are thought to be associated with formation 
and reorganization of neuronal networks underlying learning and memory. As 
spines in the brain are surrounded by the microenvironment including neighboring 
cells and the extracellular matrix, their protrusion requires generation of 
force to push against these structures. In turn, neighboring cells receive force 
from protruding spines. Recent studies have identified BAR-domain proteins as 
being involved in membrane deformation to initiate spine formation. In addition, 
forces for dendritic filopodium extension and activity-induced spine expansion 
are generated through cooperation between actin polymerization and clutch 
coupling. On the other hand, force from expanding spines affects 
neurotransmitter release from presynaptic terminals. Here, we review recent 
advances in our understanding of the physical aspects of synapse formation and 
plasticity, mainly focusing on spine dynamics.

Copyright Â© 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2022.05.017
PMID: 35659473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Authors declare no conflict 
of interest.
