1. Semin Cell Dev Biol. 2023 Aug;145:22-27. doi: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2022.05.026.
Epub  2022 Jun 2.

Untangling the relationship between developmental and evolutionary integration.

Evans KM(1), Buser TJ(2), Larouche O(2), Kolmann MA(2).

Author information:
(1)Rice University, Biosciences Department, 6100 Main St, Houston, TX 77005, 
USA. Electronic address: kory.evans@rice.edu.
(2)Rice University, Biosciences Department, 6100 Main St, Houston, TX 77005, 
USA.

Patterns of integration and modularity among organismal traits are prevalent 
across the tree of life, and at multiple scales of biological organization. Over 
the past several decades, researchers have studied these patterns at the 
developmental, and evolutionary levels. While their work has identified the 
potential drivers of these patterns at different scales, there appears to be a 
lack of consensus on the relationship between developmental and evolutionary 
integration. Here, we review and summarize key studies and build a framework to 
describe the conceptual relationship between these patterns across organismal 
scales and illustrate how, and why some of these studies may have yielded 
seemingly conflicting outcomes. We find that among studies that analyze patterns 
of integration and modularity using morphological data, the lack of consensus 
may stem in part from the difficulty of fully disentangling the developmental 
and functional causes of integration. Nonetheless, in some empirical systems, 
patterns of evolutionary modularity have been found to coincide with 
expectations based on developmental processes, suggesting that in some 
circumstances, developmental modularity may translate to evolutionary 
modularity. We also advance an extension to Hallgrímsson et al.'s palimpsest 
model to describe how patterns of trait modularity may shift across different 
evolutionary scales. Finally, we also propose some directions for future 
research which will hopefully be useful for investigators interested in these 
issues.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2022.05.026
PMID: 35659472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest.
