1. Psychol Med. 2023 May;53(7):3000-3008. doi: 10.1017/S003329172100502X. Epub
2021  Dec 9.

Depressive symptoms and neuroticism-related traits are the main factors 
associated with wellbeing independent of the history of lifetime depression in 
the UK Biobank.

Fabbri C(1)(2), Mutz J(2), Lewis CM(2), Serretti A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.
(2)Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, 
Psychology & Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Wellbeing has a fundamental role in determining life expectancy and 
major depressive disorder (MDD) is one of the main modulating factors of 
wellbeing. This study evaluated the modulators of wellbeing in individuals with 
lifetime recurrent MDD (RMDD), single-episode MDD (SMDD) and no MDD in the UK 
Biobank.
METHODS: Scores of happiness, meaningful life and satisfaction about functioning 
were condensed in a functioning-wellbeing score (FWS). We evaluated depression 
and anxiety characteristics, neuroticism-related traits, physical diseases, 
lifestyle and polygenic risk scores (PRSs) of psychiatric disorders. Other than 
individual predictors, we estimated the cumulative contribution to FWS of each 
group of predictors. We tested the indirect role of neuroticism on FWS through 
the modulation of depression manifestations using a mediation analysis.
RESULTS: We identified 47 966, 21 117 and 207 423 individuals with lifetime 
RMDD, SMDD and no MDD, respectively. Depression symptoms and personality showed 
the largest impact on FWS (variance explained ~20%), particularly self-harm, 
worthlessness feelings during the worst depression, chronic depression, 
loneliness and neuroticism. Personality played a stronger role in SMDD. Anxiety 
characteristics showed a higher effect in SMDD and no MDD groups. Neuroticism 
played indirect effects through specific depressive symptoms that modulated FWS. 
Physical diseases and lifestyle explained only 4-5% of FWS variance. The PRS of 
MDD showed the largest effect on FWS compared to other PRSs.
CONCLUSIONS: This was the first study to comprehensively evaluate the predictors 
of wellbeing in relation to the history of MDD. The identified variables are 
important to identify individuals at risk and promote wellbeing.

DOI: 10.1017/S003329172100502X
PMCID: PMC10235644
PMID: 35695039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CML is a member of the Scientific Advisory Board 
of Myriad Neurosciences. AS is or has been consultant/speaker for: Abbott, 
Abbvie, Angelini, Astra Zeneca, Clinical Data, Boheringer, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Innovapharma, Italfarmaco, Janssen, Lundbeck, 
Naurex, Pfizer, Polifarma, Sanofi, Servier. CF was a speaker for Janssen. JM 
declares no potential conflict of interest.
