1. Chronic Illn. 2023 Mar;19(1):157-171. doi: 10.1177/17423953221108223. Epub
2022  Jun 12.

'The likes of me running and walking? No chance': Exploring the perceptions of 
adult patients with bronchiectasis towards exercise.

Royle H(1), Kelly C(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Care Professions, 8629University of Winchester, 
Winchester, UK.
(2)Respiratory Research Centre, Health Research Institute, 6249Edge Hill 
University, Ormskirk, UK.

Objective: To explore the views and experiences of adult patients with 
bronchiectasis towards exercise. Methods: Semi-structured interviews with ten 
patients with bronchiectasis were conducted to explore perceptions of exercise, 
potential barriers and facilitators of exercise. Inductive thematic analysis was 
used to identify key themes. Findings: Five main themes: 1. The language of 
exercise 2. Facilitators to exercise 3. Barriers to exercise 4. Exercise has a 
positive impact on health and life expectancy 5. Grief regarding loss of ability 
Discussion: Participants perceived exercise as positive, but there was variance 
regarding what this entailed. Findings suggest healthcare professionals should 
consider the language used when prescribing exercise and provide clarity for 
patients and reflect on their own role in advising on exercise. There were both 
common and differing barriers and facilitators to exercise between participants. 
Holistic needs and the identification of these potential barriers and 
facilitators to exercise could aid compliance. Further research is needed to 
explore generalisability and the effectiveness of behaviour change models to 
improve engagement with exercise.

DOI: 10.1177/17423953221108223
PMCID: PMC9843538
PMID: 35695195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.
