1. Ir J Med Sci. 2023 Apr;192(2):713-720. doi: 10.1007/s11845-022-03054-2. Epub 
2022 Jun 18.

Irish Roma: a literature review.

O'Sullivan A(1), Rooney D(2), O'Gorman CS(2)(3), Murphy AM(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University Hospital Limerick (UHL), Limerick, 
Ireland. osullia3@tcd.ie.
(2)Department of Paediatrics, University Hospital Limerick (UHL), Limerick, 
Ireland.
(3)Department of Paediatrics, School of Medicine, University of Limerick (UL), 
Limerick, Ireland.

It is estimated that the Roma are the largest ethnic minority population in 
Europe (HSE in Roma Intercultural Guide, 2020). There is a dearth of information 
in the Irish medical literature on the Roma in Ireland. The aim of this paper is 
to provide an overview of the Roma in Ireland, to identify Roma-specific 
culture, family structure, paediatric illness, and health equality within the 
context of the Irish population. To do this, a review was completed of the 
English language literature on Roma available from 2010 to 2021 using web of 
science databases. Relevant clinicians and organisations were contacted to 
compile data on the Irish Roma to inform appropriate action in Roma child 
health. Up until 2021, the national census in Ireland did not include Roma as a 
category in ethnicity (HSE in Roma Intercultural Guide, 2020). As such, it is 
difficult to get an accurate number of the population in Ireland. Pavee Point 
Traveller and Roma Centre in 2009 estimated a population of approximately 5000 
(National Traveller and Roma Inclusion Strategy in Justice.ie, 2017). The 
majority of the Roma in Ireland are Romanian (National Traveller and Roma 
Inclusion Strategy in Justice.ie, 2017). There is limited understanding of their 
culture in Ireland (National Traveller and Roma Inclusion Strategy in 
Justice.ie, 2017). Often overlooked, small indigenous groups or nomadic races 
have unmet medical needs (National Traveller and Roma Inclusion Strategy in 
Justice.ie, 2017). Across Europe, they have a lower life expectancy and higher 
burden of illness due to lower socioeconomic status, discrimination, and poor 
access to health services (National Traveller and Roma Inclusion Strategy in 
Justice.ie, 2017). Cultural competence is necessary to provide effective 
healthcare.

Â© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11845-022-03054-2
PMCID: PMC9206508
PMID: 35717428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.
