1. Curr Med Chem. 2023;30(6):669-688. doi: 10.2174/0929867329666220620162018.

DYRK1A Inhibitors and Perspectives for the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease.

de Souza MM(1), Cenci AR(2), Teixeira KF(2), Machado V(2), Mendes Schuler 
MCG(2), Gonçalves AE(1), Paula Dalmagro A(1), André Cazarin C(1), Gomes Ferreira 
LL(3), de Oliveira AS(3), Andricopulo AD(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, Graduate Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
UNIVALI, Rua Uruguai, 458 F6 lab 206 Campus I, Centro, Itajai, SC, 88302-202, 
Brazil.
(2)Department of Exact Sciences and Education, Federal University of Santa 
Catarina, R. João Pessoa, 2750 - Velha, 89036-002, Blumenau, SC, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Medicinal and Computational Chemistry, Center for Research and 
Innovation in Biodiversity and Drug Discovery, Institute of Physics of São 
Carlos, University of São Paulo, São Carlos-SP, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disease and 
the most common form of dementia, especially in the elderly. Due to the increase 
in life expectancy, in recent years, there has been an excessive growth in the 
number of people affected by this disease, causing serious problems for health 
systems. In recent years, research has been intensified to find new therapeutic 
approaches that prevent the progression of the disease. In this sense, recent 
studies indicate that the dual-specificity tyrosine phosphorylation regulated 
kinase 1A (DYRK1A) gene, which is located on chromosome 21q22.2 and 
overexpressed in Down syndrome (DS), may play a significant role in 
developmental brain disorders and early onset neurodegeneration, neuronal loss 
and dementia in DS and AD. Inhibiting DYRK1A may serve to stop the phenotypic 
effects of its overexpression and, therefore, is a potential treatment strategy 
for the prevention of ageassociated neurodegeneration, including Alzheimer-type 
pathology.
OBJECTIVE: In this review, we investigate the contribution of DYRK1A inhibitors 
as potential anti-AD agents.
METHODS: A search in the literature to compile an in vitro dataset including 
IC50 values involving DYRK1A was performed from 2014 to the present day. In 
addition, we carried out structure-activity relationship studies based on in 
vitro and in silico data.
RESULTS: molecular modeling and enzyme kinetics studies indicate that DYRK1A may 
contribute to AD pathology through its proteolytic process, reducing its kinase 
specificity.
CONCLUSION: further evaluation of DYRK1A inhibitors may contribute to new 
therapeutic approaches for AD.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0929867329666220620162018
PMID: 35726411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
