1. AIDS Care. 2023 May;35(5):772-778. doi: 10.1080/09540121.2022.2091103. Epub
2022  Jun 23.

Factors associated with early biological aging in older people with HIV.

Peixoto IR(1), de Melo LSW(1), Lacerda HR(2).

Author information:
(1)Hospital das Clínicas at the Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife, 
Pernambuco, Brazil.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife, 
Pernambuco, Brazil.

Advances and availability of antiretroviral treatment has enabled a longer life 
expectancy for HIV population. However, with its chronicity, premature aging 
challenges the management of people living with HIV. This study, conducted 
between 2018-2020, aimed to identify an association between risk factors and 
premature aging, using the biological age estimated by artificial intelligence 
(AI) based on deep learning (Aging 3.0). This was a cross-sectional, analytical 
study, involving older people living with HIV (OPLHIV), 66.1% of whom were men. 
Premature aging was identified in 67.8%. The presence of cannabis and diabetes 
were significant (p = 0.045 and p = 0.042, respectively). For current and nadir 
CD4 + cell counts, participants were divided into groups comparing biological 
age (BA) and chronological age (CA). Just one group presented no premature 
aging, whereas the group with premature aging was subdivided into BA > CA up to 
4 years and BA > CA in 5 or more years. In conclusion, premature aging was 
present in most of the OPLHIV. The use of cannabis was self-reported in those 
with higher BAs and those with a lower BA presented a higher prevalence of 
diabetes. Factors directly linked to HIV infection, lower current and nadir 
CD4 + counts were associated with premature aging.

DOI: 10.1080/09540121.2022.2091103
PMID: 35735918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
