1. Gesundheitswesen. 2023 Mar;85(S 02):S101-S110. doi: 10.1055/a-1806-2115. Epub 
2022 Jun 23.

[Utilizing Routine Health Insurance Data for Calculation of Disease Frequencies 
in the Project BURDEN 2020].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Schüssel K(1), Breitkreuz J(1), Brückner G(1), Schröder H(1).

Author information:
(1)Wissenschaftliches Institut der AOK (WIdO), Berlin, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: The concept of disease burden enables a comprehensive analysis of the 
health status of a population. Key indicators are years of life lost due to 
mortality (YLL) and morbidity (years lived with disability, YLD), summarised in 
the DALY indicator (disability adjusted life years). These indicators are 
suitable for planning prevention, health care or provision of health services. 
With the project BURDEN 2020, funded by the German Federal Joint Committee's 
Innovation Fund, a national and regionalised calculation of burden of disease 
for Germany is being carried out for the first time, based on the methodology of 
the international "Global Burden of Disease" study.
METHODS: Calculation of YLD requires data on the frequency and severity of 
diseases, with routine health insurance data constituting an important data 
source. Case definitions for 18 selected diseases and severity levels for 11 of 
these diseases were developed in expert meetings. Based on these case 
definitions, the AOK Research Institute (WIdO) calculated disease frequencies 
from health utilisation data of patients insured with the AOK. A specific 
concept for prevalence calculation takes into account the dynamics of an open 
cohort of insurees. For severity levels, the results of the AOK insurees were 
extrapolated to the total population in Germany according to age and gender 
groups. For disease frequencies, the results were additionally adjusted for 
morbidity and estimated on regional levels.
RESULTS: Disease frequencies measured by prevalences or rates are available for 
18 diseases from seven categories (cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, cancer, 
mental disorders, dementia, COPD and lower respiratory tract infections) at the 
regional levels of the 16 federal states and 96 regional planning areas. 
Severity distributions are provided on the national level stratified by age 
groups and gender. The results and documentation of methods are available at 
www.krankheitslage-deutschland.de (in German language).
CONCLUSION: Routine health insurance data are an important data source in the 
BURDEN 2020 project because regional figures and, in some cases, severity levels 
can be determined on the basis of a large number of cases. A comprehensive 
publication of results creates transparency and allows reutilisation of methods 
in further projects. Future research should extend burden of disease 
calculations to other diseases. In addition, there is an increasing demand for 
health data linkage.

Publisher: ZIEL DER STUDIE: Das Konzept der Krankheitslast erlaubt eine 
umfassende Analyse des Gesundheitszustands einer Bevölkerung. Als Kennzahlen 
werden verlorene Lebensjahre aufgrund von Mortalität (years of life lost, YLL) 
und Morbidität (years lived with disability, YLD) berechnet und im 
Summenindikator DALY (disability adjusted life years) zusammengefasst. Diese 
Indikatoren liefern eine Planungsgrundlage für Bereiche wie Prävention, 
Versorgung oder Bedarfsplanung. In dem vom Innovationsfonds geförderten Projekt 
BURDEN 2020 wird erstmals für Deutschland eine regionalisierte 
Krankheitslastberechnung in Anlehnung an die internationale „Global Burden of 
Disease“-Studie durchgeführt.
METHODIK: Zur Berechnung der YLD werden Informationen zur Häufigkeit von 
Krankheiten und deren Schweregradverteilungen benötigt. Dabei sind 
Krankenkassenroutinedaten eine wichtige Datengrundlage. In Expertentreffen 
wurden Falldefinitionen für 18 ausgewählte Krankheiten sowie Schweregrade bei 11 
der Krankheiten entwickelt. Auf dieser Basis wurden Krankheitshäufigkeiten vom 
WIdO unter Nutzung der Routinedaten der AOK-Versicherten ermittelt. Ein 
spezifisches Prävalenzkonzept berücksichtigt die Dynamik der offenen Kohorte der 
Versicherten. Die Hochrechnung der Ergebnisse ausgehend von der AOK auf die 
Gesamtbevölkerung erfolgte bei den Schweregraden bundesweit nach Alter und 
Geschlecht und bei den Krankheitshäufigkeiten zusätzlich morbiditätsadjustiert 
und regionalisiert.
ERGEBNISSE: Systematisch wurden für 18 Erkrankungen aus sieben Krankheitsgruppen 
(kardiovaskuläre Krankheiten, Diabetes, Krebs, psychische Störungen, Demenz, 
COPD und untere Atemwegsinfekte) die Krankheitshäufigkeiten (Prävalenzen oder 
Raten) bis auf Ebene der Bundesländer und Raumordnungsregionen ermittelt. 
Schweregradverteilungen liegen bundesweit nach Alter und Geschlecht vor. Die 
Ergebnisse und Methodendokumentation sind verfügbar unter 
www.krankheitslage-deutschland.de.
SCHLUSSFOLGERUNG: Krankenkassenroutinedaten stellen eine wichtige Datengrundlage 
im Projekt BURDEN 2020 dar, weil auf Basis der großen Fallzahlen regionale 
Kennzahlen und teilweise Schweregrade ermittelt werden können. Eine umfassende 
Publikation der Ergebnisse schafft Transparenz und soll die Nachnutzung in 
Folgeprojekten ermöglichen. Perspektivisch scheint es sinnvoll, die 
Krankheitslastberechnung auf weitere Krankheiten auszuweiten. Zudem wird der 
Bedarf nach datenschutzkonformer Verknüpfung von Krankenkassenroutinedaten mit 
weiteren Gesundheitsdatenbeständen steigen.

Thieme. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1055/a-1806-2115
PMID: 35738301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Die Autorinnen/Autoren geben an, dass kein 
Interessenkonflikt besteht.
