1. Aging Ment Health. 2023 May;27(5):1011-1019. doi:
10.1080/13607863.2022.2084504.  Epub 2022 Jun 29.

Age group differences in substance use, social support, and physical and mental 
health concerns among people living with HIV two years after receiving primary 
care-based alcohol treatment.

Satre DD(1)(2), Sarovar V(2), Leyden WA(2), Leibowitz AS(2), Lam JO(2), Hojilla 
JC(1)(2), Davy-Mendez T(1)(2), Hare CB(3), Silverberg MJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Weill Institute for 
Neurosciences, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(2)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Oakland, CA, 
USA.
(3)Department of Adult and Family Medicine, Kaiser Permanente San Francisco 
Medical Center, San Francisco, CA, USA.

Objectives: People living with HIV (PWH) have seen reduction in HIV-associated 
morbidity and increase in near-normal life expectancy, yet unhealthy alcohol use 
poses substantial risks to older as well as younger adults. Further research 
regarding age-associated physical and mental health concerns among PWH who drink 
alcohol is needed to inform services, given the expanding age range of patients 
in care.Methods: We compared age group differences (18-34, 35-44, 45-54, 
≥55 years old) in two-year patient-reported outcomes and HIV viral control among 
PWH enrolled in a primary care-based behavioral alcohol intervention trial; with 
90% follow up from baseline.Results: Of 553 PWH, 50 (9%) were 18-34, 85 (15%) 
were 35-44, 197 (36%) were 45-54, and 221 (40%) were ≥55 years old. Most were 
men (97%) and White (64%). At two years, PWH ≥55 reported less substance use in 
the prior 30 days, fewer social contacts, and more pain; younger PWH had lower 
antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence. In adjusted analyses, PWH ages 18-34 had 
higher odds of unhealthy alcohol use, tobacco, cannabis, or other substances 
compared to those ≥55; with higher odds of anxiety among PWH 35-44 compared with 
those ≥55; and physical quality of life was worse among those ≥55 compared with 
younger groups.Conclusions: While older PWH report less substance use than 
younger PWH and have better ART adherence post-treatment, they are more likely 
to experience limited social support and worse physical quality of life. 
Findings can inform interventions to address varying needs of PWH across the 
lifespan.

DOI: 10.1080/13607863.2022.2084504
PMCID: PMC9797622
PMID: 35765902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
