1. Cancer Med. 2023 Jan;12(2):1729-1743. doi: 10.1002/cam4.4951. Epub 2022 Jun
30.

Expansion of the quality of care index on breast cancer and its risk factors 
using the global burden of disease study 2019.

Azadnajafabad S(1)(2)(3), Saeedi Moghaddam S(1), Keykhaei M(4), Shobeiri P(1), 
Rezaei N(1)(5), Ghasemi E(1), Mohammadi E(1), Ahmadi N(1), Ghamari A(1), Shahin 
S(1), Rezaei N(1), Aghili M(6), Kaviani A(2)(3)(7), Larijani B(5), Farzadfar 
F(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Population Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(2)Breast Disease Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Surgery, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Feinberg Cardiovascular and Renal Research Institute, Northwestern University 
School of Medicine, Chicago, USA.
(5)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Clinical Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(6)Radiation Oncology Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(7)Department of Surgical Oncology, University of Montreal, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer (BC), as the top neoplasm in prevalence and mortality 
in females, imposes a heavy burden on health systems. Evaluation of quality of 
care and management of patients with BC and its responsible risk factors was the 
aim of this study.
METHODS: We retrieved epidemiologic data of BC from the Global Burden of Disease 
(GBD) 1990-2019 database. Epidemiology and burden of BC and its risk factors 
were explored besides the Quality of Care Index (QCI) introduced before, to 
assess the provided care for patients with BC in various scales. Provided care 
for BC risk factors was investigated by their impact on years of life lost and 
years lived with disability by a novel risk factor quality index (rQCI). We used 
the socio-demographic index (SDI) to compare results in different socio-economic 
levels.
RESULTS: In 2019, 1,977,212 (95% UI: 1,807,615-2,145,215) new cases of BC in 
females and 25,143 (22,231-27,786) in males was diagnosed and this major cancer 
caused 688,562 (635,323-739,571) deaths in females and 12,098 (10,693-13,322) 
deaths in males, globally. The all-age number of deaths and disability-adjusted 
life years attributed to BC risk factors in females had an increasing pattern, 
with a more prominent pattern in metabolic risks. The global estimated 
age-standardized QCI for BC in females in 2019 was 78.7. The estimated QCI was 
highest in high SDI regions (95.7). The top countries with the highest 
calculated QCI in 2019 were Iceland (100), Japan (99.8), and Finland (98.8), and 
the bottom countries were Mozambique (16.0), Somalia (8.2), and Central African 
Republic (5.3). The global estimated age-standardized rQCI for females was 82.2 
in 2019.
CONCLUSION: In spite of the partially restrained burden of BC in recent years, 
the attributable burden to risk factors has increased remarkably. Countries with 
higher SDI provided better care regarding both the condition and its responsible 
risk factors.

Â© 2022 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.4951
PMCID: PMC9883412
PMID: 35770711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this study declare no conflicts 
of interest.
