1. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2023 Nov;30(55):116584-116600. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-022-21501-6. Epub 2022 Jul 2.

The spatial impact of atmospheric environmental policy on public health based on 
the mediation effect of air pollution in China.

Zhang Z(1), Zhang G(2)(3), Li L(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Green Finance, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, 730000, China.
(2)Institute of Green Finance, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, 730000, China. 
guoxingzh@lzu.edu.cn.
(3)School of Management, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, 730000, China. 
guoxingzh@lzu.edu.cn.
(4)Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore, 259772, Singapore.

The topic of air pollution and its effect on public health has become a hot 
policy issue that has attracted worldwide attention, but this attention has 
seldom been extended to the causal relationship between atmospheric 
environmental policy (AEP), air pollution, and public health. This paper uses 
panel data from 30 provinces in China to construct spatial econometric models 
that analyze the impact of AEP on air pollution, the impact of air pollution on 
public health, and the mediation effect that air pollution may have between AEP 
and public health. The results demonstrate that there is a significant positive 
spatial spillover effect of soot and dust (SD) emission intensity and the 
overall air pollution level as measured by the Air Pollution Index (API). The 
AEP has significant inhibitory effects on the intensity of sulfur dioxide and SD 
emissions, as well as on overall air pollution. An increase in the overall air 
pollution level has a significant detrimental effect on public health as 
measured by average life expectancy. Air pollution as measured by API is a 
mediating factor in the relationship between AEP and public health. The study 
results could help to effectively control air pollution and promote public 
health by leading to improvements in regional pollution prevention and control 
mechanisms and strengthening of the central government's policy formulation and 
local governments' policy implementation process.

Â© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-022-21501-6
PMID: 35779217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
