1. Behav Res Methods. 2023 Jun;55(4):1890-1906. doi: 10.3758/s13428-022-01894-5. 
Epub 2022 Jul 5.

The cognitive structure underlying the organization of observed actions.

Kabulska Z(1), Lingnau A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Human Sciences, University of 
Regensburg, Universitätsstraße 31, 93053, Regensburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Human Sciences, University of 
Regensburg, Universitätsstraße 31, 93053, Regensburg, Germany. 
angelika.lingnau@ur.de.

In daily life, we frequently encounter actions performed by other people. Here 
we aimed to examine the key categories and features underlying the organization 
of a wide range of actions in three behavioral experiments (N = 378 
participants). In Experiment 1, we used a multi-arrangement task of 100 
different actions. Inverse multidimensional scaling and hierarchical clustering 
revealed 11 action categories, including Locomotion, Communication, and 
Aggressive actions. In Experiment 2, we used a feature-listing paradigm to 
obtain a wide range of action features that were subsequently reduced to 59 key 
features and used in a rating study (Experiment 3). A direct comparison of the 
feature ratings obtained in Experiment 3 between actions belonging to the 
categories identified in Experiment 1 revealed a number of features that appear 
to be critical for the distinction between these categories, e.g., the features 
Harm and Noise for the category Aggressive actions, and the features Targeting a 
person and Contact with others for the category Interaction. Finally, we found 
that a part of the category-based organization is explained by a combination of 
weighted features, whereas a significant proportion of variability remained 
unexplained, suggesting that there are additional sources of information that 
contribute to the categorization of observed actions. The characterization of 
action categories and their associated features serves as an important extension 
of previous studies examining the cognitive structure of actions. Moreover, our 
results may serve as the basis for future behavioral, neuroimaging and 
computational modeling studies.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.3758/s13428-022-01894-5
PMCID: PMC10250259
PMID: 35788973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest or 
competing interests.
