1. Curr Neuropharmacol. 2023;21(3):517-535. doi:
10.2174/1570159X20666220706121412.

Nanocarrier-Based Drug Delivery to Brain: Interventions of Surface Modification.

Sharma S(1), Dang S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Jaypee Institute of Information Technology, 
Noida, UP, India.

Brain disorders are a prevalent and rapidly growing problem in the medical field 
as they adversely affect the quality of life of a human. With an increase in 
life expectancy, it has been reported that diseases like Alzheimer's, 
Parkinson's, stroke and brain tumors, along with neuropsychological disorders, 
are also being reported at an alarmingly high rate. Despite various therapeutic 
methods for treating brain disorders, drug delivery to the brain has been 
challenging because of a very complex Blood Brain Barrier, which precludes most 
drugs from entering the brain in effective concentrations. Nano-carrier-based 
drug delivery systems have been reported widely by researchers to overcome this 
barrier layer. These systems due to their small size, offer numerous advantages; 
however, their short residence time in the body owing to opsonization hinders 
their success in vivo. This review article focuses on the various aspects of 
modifying the surfaces of these nano-carriers with polymers, surfactants, 
protein, antibodies, cell-penetrating peptides, integrin binding peptides and 
glycoproteins such as transferrin & lactoferrin leading to enhanced residence 
time, desirable characteristics such as the ability to cross the blood-brain 
barrier (BBB), increased bioavailability in regions of the brain and targeted 
drug delivery.

CopyrightÂ© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1570159X20666220706121412
PMCID: PMC10207924
PMID: 35794771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest, 
financial or otherwise.
