1. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2023;63(19):3255-3278. doi: 
10.1080/10408398.2022.2096563. Epub 2022 Jul 6.

Nanotechnology-based preservation approaches for aquatic food products: A review 
with the current knowledge.

Çiçek S(1), Özoğul F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agriculture Biotechnology, Ataturk University, Erzurum, Turkey.
(2)Department of Seafood Processing Technology, Faculty of Fisheries, Cukurova 
University, Adana, Turkey.

Aquatic food products (AFPs) are primarily preferred by consumers due to their 
high-quality protein content, omega 3 fatty acids, vitamins, minerals, and low 
calories. However, AFPs are easily degraded by microbial, enzymatic, and 
chemical reactions. The cold storage, freezing, chemical preservation, salting 
as well as vacuum packaging systems are the major preservation techniques. 
However, they are insufficient to extend the shelf life of AFPs. Therefore, 
researchers have focused on the availability of nanotechnology to be used in 
AFPs in line with the changing consumer demands. Studies on the effectiveness of 
nanoemulsion, nanoparticle, and nanofiber forms to increment the shelf life of 
AFPs are rapidly increasing. In this review, the degradation mechanisms of AFPs, 
the nano-preservation approaches, and possible mechanisms of action are reviewed 
with the current knowledge. The article highlights that nano-preservation 
approaches in AFPs have better microbial and physicochemical parameters such as 
total volatile basic nitrogen (TVBN), thiobarbituric acid (TBA), peroxide value 
(PV), free fatty acid (FFA), pH as well as the shelf life extension compared to 
the conventional methods. The antimicrobial activity of nanostructures reduces 
the microbial load of AFPs and delays the onset of oxidative degradation. 
Consequently, researchers suggest that nano-approaches may have great potential 
in extending the shelf life of AFPs.

DOI: 10.1080/10408398.2022.2096563
PMID: 35791799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
