1. Skeletal Radiol. 2023 Oct;52(10):1825-1840. doi: 10.1007/s00256-022-04124-3. 
Epub 2022 Jul 20.

Interlaminar versus transforaminal epidural steroid injections: a review of 
efficacy and safety.

Lee E(1)(2), Lee JW(3)(4), Kang HS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Gumi-dong, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, 13620, Gyeonggi-do, Korea.
(2)Department of Radiology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Gumi-dong, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, 13620, Gyeonggi-do, Korea. 
joonwoo2@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Radiology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea. joonwoo2@gmail.com.

Spine intervention is an important treatment option for the management of spinal 
pain, and the numbers of the most representative epidural steroid injection 
(ESI) procedures performed are expected to increase significantly in the future 
along with increased life expectancy and the increasing prevalence of spinal 
disorders. Therefore, it is important to understand the efficacy of ESIs 
according to each spinal disorder they are administered to treat, and one must 
be familiar with the possible complications. In fact, although numerous 
ESI-related articles have been published, there is still considerable 
controversy regarding the efficacy of ESI procedures. Furthermore, due to the 
rarity of serious complications, most instances have been recorded in the form 
of case reports. In this article, we aimed to review the indications of cervical 
and lumbar ESIs and to compare interlaminar ESI (ILESI) and transforaminal ESI 
(TFESI) techniques in terms of analgesic efficacy, possible complications, and 
safety profiles. This article includes opinions based on the authors' experience 
with ESI indications and efficacy, and presents practical tips for coping with 
specific situations related to each complication. By combining the dedicated 
anatomical understanding of radiologists with image-guided interventions, ESI is 
expected to stand out in the rapidly expanding field of spine intervention.

Â© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International Skeletal Society 
(ISS).

DOI: 10.1007/s00256-022-04124-3
PMID: 35859019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
