1. J Sci Food Agric. 2023 Jan 30;103(2):463-478. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.12144. Epub
2022  Aug 15.

Methods for quality evaluation of sweet cherry.

Ricardo-Rodrigues S(1), Laranjo M(1), Agulheiro-Santos AC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)MED-Mediterranean Institute for Agriculture, Environment and Development, 
IIFA - Instituto de Investigação e Formação Avançada, Universidade de Évora, 
Évora, Portugal.
(2)Departamento de Fitotecnia, Escola de Ciências e Tecnologia, Universidade de 
Évora, Évora, Portugal.

Sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.) is a highly valued fruit, whose quality can be 
evaluated using several objective methodologies, such as calibre, colour, 
texture, soluble solids content (SSC), titratable acidity (TA), as well as 
maturity indexes. Functional and nutritional compounds are also frequently 
determined, in response to consumer demand. The aim of the present review is to 
clarify and establish quality evaluation parameters and methodologies for the 
whole cherry supply chain, in order to promote easy and faithful communication 
among all stakeholders. The use of near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) as a 
non-destructive and expeditious method for assessing some quality parameters is 
discussed. In this review, the results of a wide survey to assess the most 
common methodologies for cherry quality evaluation, carried out among cherry 
researchers and producers within the framework of the COST Action FA1104 
'Sustainable production of high-quality cherries for the European market', are 
also reported. The standardisation of quality evaluation parameters is expected 
to contribute to the preservation and shelf-life extension of sweet cherries, 
and the valorisation of the whole supply chain. For future studies on sweet 
cherry, we put forward a proposal regarding both sample size and the tests 
chosen to evaluate each parameter. © 2022 Society of Chemical Industry.

© 2022 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.12144
PMID: 35870155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
