1. Environ Geochem Health. 2023 May;45(5):2229-2240. doi: 
10.1007/s10653-022-01331-8. Epub 2022 Jul 23.

Effect of particulate matter (PM(2.5) and PM(10)) on health indicators: climate 
change scenarios in a Brazilian metropolis.

Leão MLP(1), Zhang L(2), da Silva Júnior FMR(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Ciências Médicas (FCM) e Hospital, Universitário Oswaldo Cruz 
(HUOC) da Universidade de Pernambuco (UPE), Campus Santo Amaro, Recife. Rua 
Arnóbio Marques, 310 - Santo Amaro, Recife, PE, CEP: 50100-130, Brazil.
(2)Universidade Federal do Rio Grande, Rua Visconde de Paranaguá 102 Centro, Rio 
Grande, RS, CEP: 96203-900, Brazil.
(3)Universidade Federal do Rio Grande, Rua Visconde de Paranaguá 102 Centro, Rio 
Grande, RS, CEP: 96203-900, Brazil. f.m.r.silvajunior@gmail.com.

Recife is recognized as the 16th most vulnerable city to climate change in the 
world. In addition, the city has levels of air pollutants above the new limits 
proposed by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2021. In this sense, the 
present study had two main objectives: (1) To evaluate the health (and economic) 
benefits related to the reduction in mean annual concentrations of PM10 and 
PM2.5 considering the new limits recommended by the WHO: 15 µg/m3 (PM10) and 5 
µg/m3 (PM2.5) and (2) To simulate the behavior of these pollutants in scenarios 
with increased temperature (2 and 4 °C) using machine learning. The averages of 
PM2.5 and PM10 were above the limits recommended by the WHO. The scenario 
simulating the reduction in these pollutants below the new WHO limits would 
avoid more than 130 deaths and 84 hospital admissions for respiratory or 
cardiovascular problems. This represents a gain of 15.2 months in life 
expectancy and a cost of almost 160 million dollars. Regarding the simulated 
temperature increase, the most conservative (+ 2 °C) and most drastic (+ 4 °C) 
scenarios predict an increase of approximately 6.5 and 15%, respectively, in the 
concentrations of PM2.5 and PM10, with a progressive increase in deaths 
attributed to air pollution. The study shows that the increase in temperature 
will have impacts on air particulate matter and health outcomes. Climate change 
mitigation and pollution control policies must be implemented for meeting new 
WHO air quality standards which may have health benefits.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s10653-022-01331-8
PMCID: PMC9308372
PMID: 35870077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest
