1. J Strength Cond Res. 2023 Jan 1;37(1):68-73. doi:
10.1519/JSC.0000000000004243.  Epub 2022 Jun 20.

May a Nonlocalized Postactivation Performance Enhancement Exist Between the 
Upper and Lower Body in Trained Men?

Bartolomei S(1), De Luca R(2), Marcora SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy ; and.
(2)Department of Life Quality Studies, University of Bologna, Rimini, Italy.

Bartolomei, S, De Luca, R, and Marcora, SM. May a nonlocalized postactivation 
performance enhancement exist between the upper and lower body in trained men? J 
Strength Cond Res 37(1): 68-73, 2023-The aim of this study was to establish 
whether a resistance exercise for the upper body may generate a postactivation 
performance enhancement (PAPE) in the lower body. Thirteen resistance-trained 
men (age = 26.4 ± 3.3 years, body mass = 76.9 ± 6.3 kg, and height = 177.6 ± 5.2 
cm) participated in the present investigation and were tested for upper-body and 
lower-body power (bench press throw and countermovement jump power [CMJP] 
tests). Subjects were also tested for maximum force and electromyographic (EMG) 
activation of quadriceps muscles while performing an isometric leg extension. 
All assessments were performed before and 8 minutes after a high-intensity (HI: 
5 sets of 1 rep at 90% of 1 repetition maximum [1RM]) bench press protocol, a 
high-power protocol (POW: 5 sets of 1 rep at 30% of 1RM with maximum explosive 
intent), and a control trial (CON). Subjects performed all trials in a 
randomized order and on different days. A significant trial × time interaction 
was detected for CMJP ( p = 0.049). This parameter was significantly increased 
following the HI protocol only ( p = 0.024). A significant interaction was also 
noted for EMG with a significant improvement following the HI protocol ( p = 
0.032) and a significant decrease following the POW protocol ( p = 0.020). No 
other significant effects were detected ( p > 0.05). The results of this 
investigation indicate that a HI bench press protocol may produce a PAPE in the 
lower-body power and increase the neuromuscular activation of leg extensor 
muscles. The POW bench press protocol did not show any positive effects on 
lower-body performance. Athletes and practitioners may take advantage from the 
inclusion of upper-body HI resistance exercises throughout complex resistance 
workouts to improve lower-body power output.

Copyright © 2022 National Strength and Conditioning Association.

DOI: 10.1519/JSC.0000000000004243
PMID: 35900802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
