1. Eur J Health Econ. 2023 Jun;24(4):647-659. doi: 10.1007/s10198-022-01500-7.
Epub  2022 Aug 2.

Reducing the basic reproduction number of COVID-19: a model simulation focused 
on QALYs, hospitalisation, productivity costs and optimal (soft) lockdown.

Robles-Zurita J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Health Technology Assessment, School of Health & 
Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom. 
JoseAntonio.Robles-Zurita@glasgow.ac.uk.
(2)HCD Economics, Daresbury, United Kingdom. 
JoseAntonio.Robles-Zurita@glasgow.ac.uk.

Even if public health interventions are successful at reducing the spread of 
COVID-19, there is no guarantee that they will bring net benefits to the society 
because of the dynamic nature of the pandemic, e.g., the risk of a second 
outbreak if those interventions are stopped too early, and the costs of a 
continued lockdown. In this analysis, a discrete-time dynamic model is used to 
simulate the effect of reducing the effective reproduction number, driven by 
lockdowns ordered in March 2020 in four European countries (UK, France, Italy 
and Spain), on QALYs and hospitalisation costs. These benefits are valued in 
monetary terms (€30,000 per QALY assumed) and compared to productivity costs due 
to reduced economic activity during the lockdown. An analysis of the optimal 
duration of lockdown is performed where a net benefit is maximised. The switch 
to a soft lockdown is analysed and compared to a continued lockdown or no 
intervention. Results vary for two assumptions about hospital capacity of the 
health system: (a) under unlimited capacity, average benefit ranges from 8.21 to 
14.21% of annual GDP, for UK and Spain, respectively; (b) under limited 
capacity, average benefits are higher than 30.32% of annual GDP in all 
countries. The simulation results imply that the benefits of lockdown are not 
substantial unless continued until vaccination of high-risk groups is complete. 
It is illustrated that lockdown may not bring net benefits under some scenarios 
and a soft lockdown will be a more efficient alternative from mid-June 2020 only 
if the basic reproduction number is maintained low (not necessarily below 1) and 
productivity costs are sufficiently reduced.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-022-01500-7
PMCID: PMC9344232
PMID: 35916992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
