1. Semin Cell Dev Biol. 2023 Apr;139:3-12. doi: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2022.07.011.
Epub  2022 Jul 30.

The role of genetic risk factors of Alzheimer's disease in synaptic dysfunction.

Fu WY(1), Ip NY(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science, State Key Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, 
Molecular Neuroscience Center, The Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology, Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong, China; Hong Kong Center for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong Science Park, Hong Kong, China.
(2)Division of Life Science, State Key Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, 
Molecular Neuroscience Center, The Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology, Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong, China; Hong Kong Center for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hong Kong Science Park, Hong Kong, China; Guangdong 
Provincial Key Laboratory of Brain Science, Disease and Drug Development, HKUST 
Shenzhen Research Institute, Shenzhen-Hong Kong Institute of Brain Science, 
Shenzhen, Guangdong 518057, China. Electronic address: boip@ust.hk.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by the 
progressive deterioration of cognitive functions. Due to the extended global 
life expectancy, the prevalence of AD is increasing among aging populations 
worldwide. While AD is a multifactorial disease, synaptic dysfunction is one of 
the major neuropathological changes that occur early in AD, before clinical 
symptoms appear, and is associated with the progression of cognitive 
deterioration. However, the underlying pathological mechanisms leading to this 
synaptic dysfunction remains unclear. Recent large-scale genomic analyses have 
identified more than 40 genetic risk factors that are associated with AD. In 
this review, we discuss the functional roles of these genes in synaptogenesis 
and synaptic functions under physiological conditions, and how their functions 
are dysregulated in AD. This will provide insights into the contributions of 
these encoded proteins to synaptic dysfunction during AD pathogenesis.

Copyright Â© 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2022.07.011
PMID: 35918217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no competing financial interests.
