1. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2023 Jan;30(1):1761-1773. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-022-22318-z. Epub 2022 Aug 3.

Changing trends in the air pollution-related disease burden from 1990 to 2019 
and its predicted level in 25 years.

Hu W(1), Fang L(1), Zhang H(1), Ni R(1), Pan G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Anhui 
Medical University, 81 Meishan Road, Hefei, 230032, Anhui, China.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Anhui 
Medical University, 81 Meishan Road, Hefei, 230032, Anhui, China. pgxkd@163.com.

In the twenty-first century, exposure to air pollution has become a threat to 
human health worldwide due to industrial development. Timely, comprehensive, and 
reliable assessment and prediction of disease burden can help mitigate the 
health hazards of air pollution. This study conducted a two-stage analysis. 
First, we reported the air pollution-related disease burden globally and for 
different subgroups like socio-demographic index (SDI), sex, and age. We 
analyzed the trend of the disease burden from 1990 to 2019. In addition, we 
explored whether and how some national indicators modified the disease burden. 
Second, we predicted the number and the age-standardized rates of death and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) attributable to air pollution from 2020 
to 2044 by the autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) model and 
exponential smoothing model. The age-period-cohort (APC) model in the maximum 
likelihood framework and the Bayesian APC model integrated nested Laplace 
approximations (INLAs) were further applied to perform sensitivity analysis. In 
2019, air pollution accounted for 11.62% of death and 0.84% of DALY worldwide. 
The corresponding age-standardized rate was 85.62 (95% uncertainty interval 
(UI): 75.71, 96.07) and 2791.08 (95% UI: 2468.81, 3141.39) per 100,000 
population. From 1990 to 2019, the number of death attributable to air pollution 
remained stable, and the number of DALY exhibited a downward trend. The 
corresponding age-standardized rates both declined. In some countries with 
larger population densities, higher proportions of elders, and lower proportions 
of females, the disease burden attributable to air pollution was lower. The 
predicted results showed that the number of air pollution-related death and DALY 
would increase. This study comprehensively assessed and predicted the air 
pollution-related disease burden worldwide. The results indicated that the 
disease burden would remain very serious in the future. Hence, some relevant 
policies should be developed to prevent and manage air pollution.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-022-22318-z
PMCID: PMC9362347
PMID: 35922595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.
