1. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2023 Feb;21(2):507-519. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2022.07.028. Epub 2022 Aug 5.

Cost-Effectiveness of Earlier or More Intensive Colorectal Cancer Screening in 
Overweight and Obese Patients.

Yeoh A(1), Mannalithara A(1), Ladabaum U(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California. Electronic address: 
uri.ladabaum@stanford.edu.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Overweight and obese persons have not only elevated rates of 
colorectal cancer (CRC), but also higher competing mortality and healthcare 
spending. We examined the cost-effectiveness of intensified CRC screening in 
overweight and obese persons.
METHODS: We adapted our validated decision analytic model of CRC screening to 
compare screening starting at 45 or 40 years of age instead of at 50 years of 
age, or shortening screening intervals, in women and men with body mass index 
(BMI) ranging from normal to grade III obesity. Strategies included colonoscopy 
every 10 years (Colo10) or every 5 years (Colo5), or annual fecal immunochemical 
test.
RESULTS: Without screening, sex-specific total CRC deaths were similar for 
persons with overweight or obesity I-III, reflecting the counterbalancing of 
higher CRC risk by lower life expectancy as BMI rises. For all BMI and sex 
groups, Colo10 starting at 45 years of age or FIT starting at 40 years of age 
were cost-effective at a threshold of $100,000 per quality-adjusted life year 
gained. Colo10 starting at 40 years of age was cost-effective only for men with 
obesity II-III, at $93,300 and $80,400 per quality-adjusted life year gained, 
respectively. Shifting Colo10 to earlier starting ages was always preferred over 
Colo5 starting at later ages. Results were robust in sensitivity analysis, 
including varying all-cause mortality, complication, and BMI-specific CRC risks.
CONCLUSIONS: CRC screening starting at 45 years of age with colonoscopy, or at 
40 years of age with FIT, appears cost-effective for women and men across the 
range of BMI. In men with obesity II-III, who have the highest CRC but also 
all-cause mortality risks, colonoscopy starting at 40 years of age appears 
cost-effective. It remains to be decided whether BMI should be used as a single 
predictor or incorporated into a multivariable tool to tailor CRC screening.

Copyright Â© 2023 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2022.07.028
PMID: 35940514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
