1. J Periodontol. 2023 Feb;94(2):193-203. doi: 10.1002/JPER.22-0241. Epub 2023
Jan  10.

Epidemiological and sociodemographic transitions of severe periodontitis 
incidence, prevalence, and disability-adjusted life years for 21 world regions 
and globally from 1990 to 2019: An age-period-cohort analysis.

Cui Y(1), Tian G(1), Li R(1), Shi Y(1), Zhou T(1), Yan Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Medical Statistics, Xiangya School of Public 
Health, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan Province, China.

BACKGROUND: Severe periodontitis is one of the most prevalent diseases and a 
global public health problem due to its high incidence and prevalence. However, 
there are few studies on the burden of periodontitis in different regions of the 
world.
METHODS: We extracted data on the incidence, prevalence, and disability-adjusted 
life years (DALYs) from the Global Burden of Disease study as severe 
periodontitis burden measures. We also explored the global burden of severe 
periodontitis according to 21 world regions and Socio-Demographic Index (SDI) 
quintiles. The joinpoint model was used to analyze temporal trends of major 
regions from 1990 to 2019, and the age-period-cohort model was used to estimate 
age, period, and cohort trends in severe periodontitis.
RESULTS: Globally, the age-standardized incidence rate (ASIR), age-standardized 
prevalence rate (ASPR), and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) rate 
increased from 1990 to 2019 (percentage change: 5.77%, 7.78%, and 8.01%, 
respectively), with average annual percent changes of 0.2%, 0.3%, and 0.3%, 
respectively. The region with the highest DALY rate was western sub-Saharan 
Africa with a value of 142.5 (95% uncertainty interval: 56.3, 303.7) per 100,000 
in 2019. For the ASIR, ASPR, and DALY, the age effect of severe periodontitis 
showed an increase followed by a decrease, the period effect showed an upward 
trend, the cohort effect showed an overall decreasing trend, and the cohort 
relative risk for incidence for some SDI quintiles showed a slight increase in 
recent years.
CONCLUSIONS: Oral health varies significantly across regions, and it is 
essential to address inequalities in oral health between countries. Effective 
measures to prevent severe periodontitis risk factors should also be taken in 
regions with low SDI.

Â© 2023 American Academy of Periodontology.

DOI: 10.1002/JPER.22-0241
PMID: 35942553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
