1. J Surg Res. 2023 Jan;281:338-344. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2022.06.071. Epub 2022
Aug  6.

U.S. Leading Causes of Death and Years of Potential Life Lost, 1981-2019: 
Implications for Surgical Research.

Wang A(1), Xiang H(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Pediatric Trauma Research, The Abigail Institute at Nationwide 
Children's Hospital, Columbus, Ohio; Center for Injury Research and Policy, The 
Abigail Institute at Nationwide Children's Hospital, Columbus, Ohio.
(2)Center for Pediatric Trauma Research, The Abigail Institute at Nationwide 
Children's Hospital, Columbus, Ohio; Center for Injury Research and Policy, The 
Abigail Institute at Nationwide Children's Hospital, Columbus, Ohio; Department 
of Pediatrics, The Ohio State University College of Medicine, Columbus, Ohio. 
Electronic address: Henry.Xiang@nationwidechildrens.org.

INTRODUCTION: Examining burden of diseases could shed light on priorities of 
public health interventions and research funding. This study examined trends of 
the U.S. top leading causes of death from 1981 to 2019 using the total number of 
deaths, age-adjusted death rate, and years of potential life lost (YPLLs).
METHODS: Data were from the Web-based Injury Statistics Query and Reporting 
System. This study gathered total number of deaths, age-adjusted death rates per 
100,000 people, and YPLLs under 70 y of age (YPLL-70) from 1981 to 2019 for the 
top 10 leading causes of death and human immunodeficiency virus/acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) for each year. The 39 y from 1981 to 2019 were 
evenly divided into three study periods: 1981-1993, 1994-2006, and 2007-2019. 
The percent change of YPLL-70 over three time periods for the top ten leading 
causes of death and AIDS was calculated. Trends of age-adjusted death rates and 
YPLL-70 of the top five leading causes of death based on the 2018-2019 death 
data were also reported by graphing them against time from 1981 to 2019 to 
highlight major mortality causes. Age-adjusted death rates for the top five 
leading causes of deaths and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) annual 
funding level in 2019 were graphed together to illustrate funding discrepancy in 
injury research and prevention.
RESULTS: The total number of deaths caused by malignant neoplasms in 2019 was 
244,994, followed by 183,442 deaths of heart diseases, 121,476 deaths of 
unintentional injuries, and 41,051 suicide deaths. Despite an initial -22.20% 
drop of YPPL-70 during 1981-1993, unintentional injuries experienced significant 
increases of 19.38% and 18.59% of YPLL-70 in 1994-2006 and 2007-2019, 
respectively. The age-adjusted death rate for unintentional injuries was 1182 
per 100,000 people in 2019, and the NIH funding in the same year was $897 
million. In comparison, the age-adjusted death rate for cancer, heart disease, 
and human immunodeficiency virus/AIDS was 786, 649, and 30 per 100,000 people 
while the NIH funding was $2,560, $2,394, and $3037 million, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Unintentional injuries, suicide, and homicide were consistently 
among the top leading causes of death and YPLL-70, so they should be prioritized 
in public health planning, research, and federal funding allocation. Injury and 
trauma research is severely underfunded by the U.S. premier funding agency.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jss.2022.06.071
PMID: 35945037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
