1. Exp Anim. 2023 Feb 21;72(1):19-29. doi: 10.1538/expanim.22-0026. Epub 2022 Aug
 15.

Canine bone marrow peri-adipocyte cells could therapeutically benefit acute 
spinal cord injury through migration and secretion of hepatocyte growth factor 
to inflammatory milieu.

Chen J(1), Fujita N(1), Takeda T(1), Hanyu W(1), Takatani H(1), Nakagawa T(1), 
Nishimura R(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Veterinary Surgery, Graduate School of Agriculture and Life 
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 1-1-1 Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0032, 
Japan.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a common neurological disorder in dogs. A secondary 
injury that occurs in the acute phase causes expansion of inflammation, 
resulting in lesion extension and further loss of function. Mesenchymal stem 
cells (MSCs) have trophic effects and the ability to migrate toward injured 
tissues; therefore, MSC-based therapy is considered promising for the treatment 
of canine SCI. We recently reported that bone marrow peri-adipocyte cells 
(BM-PACs) can be obtained from canine bone marrow and have stem cell potential 
superior to that of conventional bone marrow MSCs (BMMSCs). However, their 
therapeutic potential for SCI have been still unknow. Here, we first evaluated 
the ability of BM-PACs to secrete hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and their 
migration ability toward inflammatory milieu in vitro. BM-PACs can secrete HGF 
in response to pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α 
and IL-1β, and exhibit migration ability toward these cytokines. Next, BM-PACs 
were intravenously administered into nude mice with acute SCI to analyze the 
homing ability and therapeutic effects of HGF secreted by BM-PACs. BM-PACs homed 
to the injured spinal cord, where the HGF expression level increased 7 days 
after administration. Intravenous administration of BM-PACs induced functional 
recovery and pathological improvement, indicated by less demyelinating area, 
more preserved axons, and less glial scar formation compared with the mice only 
received vehicle. These findings suggest that the intravenous administration of 
BM-PACs can be a novel therapeutic intervention for acute canine SCI.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.22-0026
PMCID: PMC9978132
PMID: 35965078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
