1. Value Health. 2023 Jan;26(1):71-80. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2022.07.006. Epub 2022
 Aug 13.

Cost-Effectiveness and Budget Impact of Future Developments With Whole-Genome 
Sequencing for Patients With Lung Cancer.

Simons MJHG(1), Uyl-de Groot CA(2), Retèl VP(3), Mankor JM(4), Ramaekers BLT(1), 
Joore MA(5), van Harten WH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands; Care And 
Public Health Research Institute, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Erasmus School of Health Policy and Management/Institute for Medical 
Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Psychosocial Research and Epidemiology, Netherlands Cancer 
Institute-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek hospital, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; 
Department of Health Technology and Services Research, University of Twente, 
Enschede, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Erasmus Medical Centre, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(5)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands; Care And 
Public Health Research Institute, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: m.joore@mumc.nl.

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to investigate the cost-effectiveness, budget 
impact (BI), and impact of uncertainty of future developments concerning 
whole-genome sequencing (WGS) as a clinical diagnostic test compared with 
standard of care (SoC) in patients with locally advanced and metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer.
METHODS: A total of 3 likely scenarios to take place within 5 years (according 
to experts) were simulated using a previously developed, peer reviewed, and 
published decision model. The scenarios concerned "WGS results used for 
treatment selection" (scenario 1), "WGS-based biomarker for immunotherapy" 
(scenario 2), and "off-label drug approval for WGS results" (scenario 3). Two 
diagnostic strategies of the original model, "SoC" and "WGS as a diagnostic 
test" (base model), were used to compare our scenarios with. Outcomes were 
reported for the base model, all scenarios separately, combined (combined 
unweighted), and weighted by likelihood (combined weighted). Cost-effectiveness, 
BI, and value of information analyses were performed for WGS compared with SoC.
RESULTS: Total costs and quality-adjusted life-years for SoC in metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer were €149 698 and 1.235. Incremental outcomes of WGS 
were €1529/0.002(base model), -€222/0.020(scenario 1), -€2576/0.023(scenario 2), 
€388/0.024(scenario 3), -€5041/0.060(combined unweighted), 
and -€1715/0.029(combined weighted). The annual BI for adopting WGS for this 
population in The Netherlands ranged between €682 million (combined unweighted) 
and €714 million (base model). The consequences of uncertainty amounted to €3.4 
million for all scenarios (combined weighted) and to €699 000 for the diagnostic 
yield of WGS alone (combined weighted).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that it is likely for WGS to become 
cost-effective within the near future if it identifies more patients with 
actionable targets and show the impact of uncertainty regarding its diagnostic 
yield. Modeling future scenarios can be useful to consider early adoption of WGS 
while timely anticipating on unforeseen developments before final conclusions 
are reached.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2022.07.006
PMID: 35973926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
