1. Anticancer Agents Med Chem. 2023;23(5):571-584. doi: 
10.2174/1871520622666220819092503.

A Molecular Approach of Caloric Restriction and Vitamins for Cancer Prevention.

Rubio C(1), Gatica F(1), Rodríguez-Quintero P(1), Morales Z(1), Romo-Parra H(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Neurofisiología, Instituto Nacional de Neurología y 
Neurocirugía, México City, México.
(2)Centro Anáhuac de Investigación en Psicología. Facultad de Psicología, 
Universidad Anáhuac México, México City, México.

Each year, cancer claims the lives of around 10.0 million people worldwide. Food 
components have been shown to alter numerous intracellular signaling events that 
frequently go awry during carcinogenesis. Many studies suggest that dietary 
behaviors involving the consumption of antioxidant-rich foods, as well as 
caloric restriction, may play an important role in cancer prevention. Gene 
expression patterns, such as genetic polymorphisms, can influence the response 
to food components by altering their specific action on targets, as well as 
absorption, metabolism, and distribution, among other things. This review 
discusses two significant cancer prevention techniques: a vitamin-rich diet and 
caloric restriction. It also discusses the possible molecular interactions 
between the two dietary strategies and the first clues of a probable synergy 
that would come from combining caloric restriction with antioxidant use. Caloric 
restriction diets have positive effects on life expectancy and enable avoidance 
of age-related illnesses. As a result, this manuscript is based on the 
degenerative nature of cancer and intends to shed light on the biochemical 
features of not just calorie restriction but also vitamins. Both are thought to 
have an effect on oxidative stress, autophagy, and signaling pathways involved 
in energy metabolism and mitochondrial functions.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1871520622666220819092503
PMID: 35986549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
