1. Scand J Work Environ Health. 2023 Jan 1;49(1):23-32. doi: 10.5271/sjweh.4054. 
Epub 2022 Aug 26.

Working life expectancy and working years lost among users of part- and 
full-time sickness absence in Finland.

Hartikainen E(1), Solovieva S, Viikari-Juntura E, Leinonen T.

Author information:
(1)The Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, P.O. Box 40, 00032 
TYÃ–TERVEYSLAITOS, Finland. elli.hartikainen@ttl.fi.

OBJECTIVES: The use of part-time sickness absence (pSA) instead of full-time 
sickness absence (fSA) is known to increase work participation. Yet, its effect 
on the total length of working lives remains unclear. We carried out a 
quasi-experiment to assess the impact of using pSA versus fSA on the length of 
working lives.
METHODS: We used a register-based 70% random sample of the working-age 
population living in Finland on 31 December 2007 to (i) form 
propensity-score-matched groups of users of pSA and fSA and (ii) calculate their 
working life expectancy (WLE) and working years lost (WYL). We applied the 
Sullivan method based on daily measured time spent at work and other labor 
market statuses, followed up over a four-year period until the end of year 2017. 
The study population consisted of private and public sector employees with SA 
due to mental and musculoskeletal disorders, ie, the diagnostic groups where pSA 
has been primarily used.
RESULTS: Among both genders, the pSA group had a significantly higher WLE at age 
30 than the fSA group, with larger differences seen in mental disorders compared 
to musculoskeletal diseases and in the private versus public sector. Overall, 
the pSA group had fewer WYL due to unemployment and disability retirement but 
more expected years working with partial disability benefits than the fSA group.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on beneficial working career effects, the use of pSA instead 
of fSA should always be recommended for persons with mental or musculoskeletal 
disorders where feasible.

DOI: 10.5271/sjweh.4054
PMCID: PMC10549914
PMID: 36018313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
