1. Am J Pathol. 2003 Aug;163(2):591-607. doi: 10.1016/S0002-9440(10)63687-5.

Up-regulation of phosphorylated/activated p70 S6 kinase and its relationship to 
neurofibrillary pathology in Alzheimer's disease.

An WL(1), Cowburn RF, Li L, Braak H, Alafuzoff I, Iqbal K, Iqbal IG, Winblad B, 
Pei JJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Experimental Geriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, Neurotec, Novum, 
Huddinge, Sweden.

Erratum in
    Am J Pathol. 2003 Dec;163(6):2645.

The ribosomal S6 protein kinase p70 S6 kinase is known for its role in 
modulating cell-cycle progression, cell size, and cell survival. In response to 
mitogen stimulation, p70 S6 kinase activation up-regulates ribosomal 
biosynthesis and enhances the translational capacity of the cell. In Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), there is a marked increase in total tau protein in the form of 
abnormally hyperphosphorylated tau (PHF-tau) in neurons with neurofibrillary 
tangles (NFTs). In the present study, we investigated whether p70 S6 kinase 
activation is associated with PHF-tau accumulation in AD. By 
immunohistochemistry, we found that the levels of phosphorylated p70 S6 kinase 
(at Thr389 or at Thr421/Ser424) were increased in accordance with the 
progressive sequence of neurofibrillary changes according to Braak's criteria. 
Confocal microscopy showed that in AD brain, phosphorylated p70 S6 kinase 
appeared especially in neurons that are known to later develop NFTs. This 
pattern of neurons showed dot-like structures of phosphorylated p70 S6 kinase 
and hyperphosphorylated tau, which partially correlated with rab5 (endosome 
marker), lamp-1 (lysosome marker), and ubiquitin (ubiquitin-proteasomal system 
marker). By indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, phosphorylated p70 S6 
kinase (Thr389 or Thr421/Ser424), total tau, and PHF-tau were found to be 
significantly increased in AD brain as compared to control cases. The levels of 
total p70 S6 kinase and p70 S6 kinase phosphorylated at Thr421/Ser424 showed 
significant correlations with the levels of both total tau and PHF-tau. 
Regression analyses revealed a significant dependence of total tau or PHF-tau on 
p70 S6 kinase phosphorylated at Thr421/Ser424 rather than at Thr389. The levels 
of ribosomal protein S6 as well as the levels of markers for the proteolytic 
system were also significantly increased in AD as compared to control brain. 
Using a SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell model, we found that 100 micro mol/L zinc 
sulfate could induce p70 S6 kinase phosphorylation and activation, in particular 
at Thr421/Ser424. This up-regulation of the activated kinase resulted in an 
increased expression and phosphorylation of tau. Pretreatment of cells with 
rapamycin (an inhibitor of FRAP/mTOR which is the immediate upstream kinase of 
the p70 S6 kinase) attenuated the effects induced by zinc. In primary cultured 
neurons of rat cortical cortex, zinc sulfate treatment could repeat p70 S6 
kinase phosphorylation and activation at Thr421/Ser424, followed by increased 
expression and phosphorylation of tau. Taken together, these data suggest that 
activated p70 S6 kinase could mediate an up-regulation of tau translation. The 
partial co-localization of phosphorylated p70 S6 kinase with rab5, lamp-1 and 
ubiquitin, or PHF-tau with ubiquitin suggests that the activated proteolytic 
system might not be sufficient to degrade the over-produced and 
over-phosphorylated tau protein. A p70 S6 kinase modulated up-regulation of tau 
translation might contribute to PHF-tau accumulation in neurons with 
neurofibrillary changes.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9440(10)63687-5
PMCID: PMC1868198
PMID: 12875979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
