1. J Neurochem. 2005 Mar;92(5):1104-15. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2004.02948.x.

Mechanism of zinc-induced phosphorylation of p70 S6 kinase and glycogen synthase 
kinase 3beta in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells.

An WL(1), Bjorkdahl C, Liu R, Cowburn RF, Winblad B, Pei JJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Experimental Geriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, Sweden.

We have previously reported an aberrant accumulation of activated protein kinase 
B (PKB), glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3beta, extracellular signal-regulated 
kinase (ERK1/2), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), p38 and p70 S6 kinase (p70S6K) 
in neurons bearing neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
However, the mechanism by which these tau candidate kinases are involved in the 
regulation of p70S6K and GSK-3beta phosphorylation is unknown. In the current 
study, 100 microM zinc sulfate was used, and influences of various components of 
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) 
pathways on p70S6K and GSK-3beta phosphorylation have been investigated in 
serum-deprived SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. We found that zinc could induce an 
increase of phosphorylated (p) p70S6K, p-PKB, p-GSK-3beta, p-ERK1/2, p-JNK and 
p-p38, especially in long-term treatment (4-8 h). Treatment with different 
inhibitors including rapamycin, wortmannin, LY294002, and U0126, and their 
combinations, indicated that phosphorylation of p70S6K and GSK-3beta is 
regulated by rapamycin-dependent, PI3K and MAPK pathways. Furthermore, 
phosphorylation of p70S6K and GSK-3beta affected levels of tau unphosphorylated 
at the Tau-1 site and phosphorylated at the PHF-1 site, and p70S6K 
phosphorylation affected the total tau level. Thus, 100 microM zinc might 
activate PKB, GSK-3beta, ERK1/2, JNK, p38 and p70S6K, that are consequently 
involved in tau changes in SH-SY5Y cells.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2004.02948.x
PMID: 15715661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
