1. Clin Sci (Lond). 2011 Sep;121(6):267-78. doi: 10.1042/CS20100597.

Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids augment the muscle protein anabolic response 
to hyperinsulinaemia-hyperaminoacidaemia in healthy young and middle-aged men 
and women.

Smith GI(1), Atherton P, Reeds DN, Mohammed BS, Rankin D, Rennie MJ, 
Mittendorfer B.

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Nutrition, Division of Geriatrics and Nutritional Sciences, 
Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, MO 63110, USA.

Increased dietary LCn-3PUFA (long-chain n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid) intake 
stimulates muscle protein anabolism in individuals who experience muscle loss 
due to aging or cancer cachexia. However, it is not known whether LCn-3PUFAs 
elicit similar anabolic effects in healthy individuals. To answer this question, 
we evaluated the effect of 8 weeks of LCn-3PUFA supplementation (4 g of 
Lovaza®/day) in nine 25-45-year-old healthy subjects on the rate of muscle 
protein synthesis (by using stable isotope-labelled tracer techniques) and the 
activation (phosphorylation) of elements of the mTOR (mammalian target of 
rapamycin)/p70S6K (p70 S6 kinase) signalling pathway during basal 
post-absorptive conditions and during a hyperinsulinaemic-hyperaminoacidaemic 
clamp. We also measured the concentrations of protein, RNA and DNA in muscle to 
obtain indices of the protein synthetic capacity, translational efficiency and 
cell size. Neither the basal muscle protein fractional synthesis rate nor basal 
signalling element phosphorylation changed in response to LCn-3PUFA 
supplementation, but the anabolic response to insulin and amino acid infusion 
was greater after LCn-3PUFA [i.e. the muscle protein fractional synthesis rate 
during insulin and amino acid infusion increased from 0.062±0.004 to 
0.083±0.007%/h and the phospho-mTOR (Ser2448) and phospho-p70S6K (Thr389) levels 
increased by ∼50%; all P<0.05]. In addition, the muscle protein concentration 
and the protein/DNA ratio (i.e. muscle cell size) were both greater (P<0.05) 
after LCn-3PUFA supplementation. We conclude that LCn-3PUFAs have anabolic 
properties in healthy young and middle-aged adults.

DOI: 10.1042/CS20100597
PMCID: PMC3499967
PMID: 21501117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
