1. J Cell Mol Med. 2012 Mar;16(3):616-26. doi: 10.1111/j.1582-4934.2011.01347.x.

mTOR-STAT3-notch signalling contributes to ALDH2-induced protection against 
cardiac contractile dysfunction and autophagy under alcoholism.

Ge W(1), Ren J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an, China.

Mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 (ALDH2) has been shown to benefit 
myopathic changes following alcohol intake, although the precise mechanism is 
still unclear. This study was designed to evaluate the role of ALDH2 on chronic 
alcohol intake-induced myocardial geometric and functional damage with a focus 
on autophagic signalling. Wild-type friendly virus B (FVB) and transgenic mice 
overexpressing ALDH2 driven by chicken β-actin promoter were fed a 4% alcohol 
liquid diet for 12 weeks. Cardiac geometry and function were assessed using 
echocardiographic and IonOptix systems. Western blot analysis was used to 
evaluate the essential autophagy markers, Akt and AMP-dependent protein kinase 
(AMPK) as well as their downstream signalling mammalian target of rapamycin 
(mTOR) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Alcohol 
intake altered cardiac geometry and function as demonstrated by lessened LV wall 
and septal thickness, enlarged end systolic and diastolic diameters, decreased 
fractional shortening and cell shortening, the effects of which were mitigated 
by ALDH2 transgene. Chronic alcohol intake triggered myocardial autophagy as 
shown by LC3B II isoform switch, as well as decreased phosphorylation of mTOR, 
the effects of which were ablated by ALDH2. Chronic alcohol intake suppressed 
phosphorylation of Akt and AMPK, which was reconciled by ALDH2. Levels of Notch1 
and STAT3 phosphorylation were dampened by chronic alcohol intake in FVB but not 
ALDH2 myocardium. Moreover, the γ-secretase Notch inhibitor 
N\xE2\x80\x90[N-(3,5-difluorophenacetyl)-1-alany1]-S-phenyglycine t-butyl ester 
exacerbated ethanol-induced cardiomyocyte contractile dysfunction, apoptosis and 
autophagy. In summary, these findings suggested that ALDH2 elicits 
cardioprotection against chronic alcohol intake-induced cardiac geometric and 
functional anomalies by inhibition of autophagy possibly via restoring the 
Akt-mTOR-STAT3-Notch signalling cascade.

© 2012 Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine/Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1582-4934.2011.01347.x
PMCID: PMC3202644
PMID: 21609394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
