1. Free Radic Biol Med. 2011 Nov 1;51(9):1736-48. doi: 
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2011.08.002. Epub 2011 Aug 10.

AMP-dependent kinase and autophagic flux are involved in aldehyde 
dehydrogenase-2-induced protection against cardiac toxicity of ethanol.

Ge W(1), Guo R, Ren J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, Shaan-xi 
710032, China.

Mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 (ALDH2) alleviates ethanol toxicity 
although the precise mechanism is unclear. This study was designed to evaluate 
the effect of ALDH2 on ethanol-induced myocardial damage with a focus on 
autophagy. Wild-type FVB and transgenic mice overexpressing ALDH2 were 
challenged with ethanol (3g/kg/day, ip) for 3days and cardiac mechanical 
function was assessed using the echocardiographic and IonOptix systems. Western 
blot analysis was used to evaluate essential autophagy markers, Akt and AMPK, 
and the downstream signal mTOR. Ethanol challenge altered cardiac geometry and 
function as evidenced by enlarged ventricular end systolic and diastolic 
diameters, decreased cell shortening and intracellular Ca(2+) rise, prolonged 
relengthening and intracellular Ca(2+) decay, as well as reduced SERCA Ca(2+) 
uptake, which effects were mitigated by ALDH2. Ethanol challenge facilitated 
myocardial autophagy as evidenced by enhanced expression of Beclin, ATG7, and 
LC3B II, as well as mTOR dephosphorylation, which was alleviated by ALDH2. 
Ethanol challenge-induced cardiac defect and apoptosis were reversed by the 
ALDH2 agonist Alda-1, the autophagy inhibitor 3-MA, and the AMPK inhibitor 
compound C, whereas the autophagy inducer rapamycin and the AMPK activator AICAR 
mimicked or exacerbated ethanol-induced cell injury. Ethanol promoted or 
suppressed phosphorylation of AMPK and Akt, respectively, in FVB but not ALDH2 
murine hearts. Moreover, AICAR nullified Alda-1-induced protection against 
ethanol-triggered autophagic and functional changes. Ethanol increased GFP-LC3 
puncta in H9c2 cells, the effect of which was ablated by Alda-1 and 3-MA. 
Lysosomal inhibition using bafilomycin A1, E64D, and pepstatin A obliterated 
Alda-1- but not ethanol-induced responses in GFP-LC3 puncta. Our results suggest 
that ALDH2 protects against ethanol toxicity through altered Akt and AMPK 
signaling and regulation of autophagic flux.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2011.08.002
PMCID: PMC3188331
PMID: 21871561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
