1. Aging (Albany NY). 2011 Nov;3(11):1051-62. doi: 10.18632/aging.100411.

Hormesis does not make sense except in the light of TOR-driven aging.

Blagosklonny MV(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Stress Biology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY 
14263, USA. blagosklonny@oncotarget.com

Weak stresses (including weak oxidative stress, cytostatic agents, heat shock, 
hypoxia, calorie restriction) may extend lifespan. Known as hormesis, this is 
the most controversial notion in gerontology. For one, it is believed that aging 
is caused by accumulation of molecular damage. If so, hormetic stresses (by 
causing damage) must shorten lifespan. To solve the paradox, it was suggested 
that, by activating repair, hormetic stresses eventually decrease damage. 
Similarly, Baron Munchausen escaped from a swamp by pulling himself up by his 
own hair. Instead, I discuss that aging is not caused by accumulation of 
molecular damage. Although molecular damage accumulates, organisms do not live 
long enough to age from this accumulation. Instead, aging is driven by 
overactivated signal-transduction pathways including the TOR (Target of 
Rapamycin) pathway. A diverse group of hormetic conditions can be divided into 
two groups. "Hormesis A" inhibits the TOR pathway. "Hormesis B" increases 
aging-tolerance, defined as the ability to survive catastrophic complications of 
aging. Hormesis A includes calorie restriction, resveratrol, rapamycin, 
p53-inducing agents and, in part, physical exercise, heat shock and hypoxia. 
Hormesis B includes ischemic preconditioning and, in part, physical exercise, 
heat shock, hypoxia and medical interventions.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100411
PMCID: PMC3249451
PMID: 22166724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author of this manuscript has no conflict of 
interest to declare.
