1. Aging Cell. 2012 Oct;11(5):783-93. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2012.00842.x. Epub
 2012 Jul 3.

Nutrient-dependent requirement for SOD1 in lifespan extension by protein 
restriction in Drosophila melanogaster.

Sun X(1), Komatsu T, Lim J, Laslo M, Yolitz J, Wang C, Poirier L, Alberico T, 
Zou S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Gerontology, National Institute on Aging, 
Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.

Reactive oxygen species (ROS) modulate aging and aging-related diseases. Dietary 
composition is critical in modulating lifespan. However, how ROS modulate 
dietary effects on lifespan remains poorly understood. Superoxide dismutase 1 
(SOD1) is a major cytosolic enzyme responsible for scavenging superoxides. Here 
we investigated the role of SOD1 in lifespan modulation by diet in Drosophila. 
We found that a high sugar-low protein (HS-LP) diet or low-calorie diet with 
low-sugar content, representing protein restriction, increased lifespan but not 
resistance to acute oxidative stress in wild-type flies, relative to a standard 
base diet. A low sugar-high protein diet had an opposite effect. Our genetic 
analysis indicated that SOD1 overexpression or dfoxo deletion did not alter 
lifespan patterns of flies responding to diets. However, sod1 reduction blunted 
lifespan extension by the HS-LP diet but not the low-calorie diet. HS-LP and 
low-calorie diets both reduced target of rapamycin (TOR) signaling and only the 
HS-LP diet increased oxidative damage. sod1 knockdown did not affect 
phosphorylation of S6 kinase, suggesting that SOD1 acts in parallel with or 
downstream of TOR signaling. Surprisingly, rapamycin decreased lifespan in sod1 
mutant but not wild-type males fed the standard, HS-LP, and low-calorie diets, 
whereas antioxidant N-acetylcysteine only increased lifespan in sod1 mutant 
males fed the HS-LP diet, when compared to diet-matched controls. Our findings 
suggest that SOD1 is required for lifespan extension by protein restriction only 
when dietary sugar is high and support the context-dependent role of ROS in 
aging and caution the use of rapamycin and antioxidants in aging interventions.

Published 2012. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public 
domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2012.00842.x
PMCID: PMC3444681
PMID: 22672579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interests All authors declare no 
conflict of interest.
