1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Jan 8;110(2):642-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1213493110.  Epub 2012 Dec 24.

Mice with an adipocyte-specific lipin 1 separation-of-function allele reveal 
unexpected roles for phosphatidic acid in metabolic regulation.

Mitra MS(1), Chen Z, Ren H, Harris TE, Chambers KT, Hall AM, Nadra K, Klein S, 
Chrast R, Su X, Morris AJ, Finck BN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Geriatrics and Nutritional Science, 
Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, MO 63110, USA.

Lipin 1 is a coregulator of DNA-bound transcription factors and a phosphatidic 
acid (PA) phosphatase (PAP) enzyme that catalyzes a critical step in the 
synthesis of glycerophospholipids. Lipin 1 is highly expressed in adipocytes, 
and constitutive loss of lipin 1 blocks adipocyte differentiation; however, the 
effects of Lpin1 deficiency in differentiated adipocytes are unknown. Here we 
report that adipocyte-specific Lpin1 gene recombination unexpectedly resulted in 
expression of a truncated lipin 1 protein lacking PAP activity but retaining 
transcriptional regulatory function. Loss of lipin 1-mediated PAP activity in 
adipocytes led to reduced glyceride synthesis and increased PA content. 
Characterization of the deficient mice also revealed that lipin 1 normally 
modulates cAMP-dependent signaling through protein kinase A to control lipolysis 
by metabolizing PA, which is an allosteric activator of phosphodiesterase 4 and 
the molecular target of rapamycin. Consistent with these findings, lipin 1 
expression was significantly related to adipose tissue lipolytic rates and 
protein kinase A signaling in adipose tissue of obese human subjects. Taken 
together, our findings identify lipin 1 as a reciprocal regulator of 
triglyceride synthesis and hydrolysis in adipocytes, and suggest that regulation 
of lipolysis by lipin 1 is mediated by PA-dependent modulation of 
phosphodiesterase 4.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1213493110
PMCID: PMC3545773
PMID: 23267081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
