1. RETRACTED ARTICLE

J Nutr Biochem. 2013 Jul;24(7):1258-65. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2012.10.001. Epub 
2013 Jan 17.

Maternal nutrient restriction predisposes ventricular remodeling in adult sheep 
offspring.

Ge W(1), Hu N, George LA, Ford SP, Nathanielsz PW, Wang XM, Ren J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an, China.

Retraction in
    J Nutr Biochem. 2023 Feb;112:109243.

Maternal nutrient restriction during pregnancy is associated with the 
development of a "thrifty phenotype" in offspring, conferring increased 
prevalence of metabolic diseases in adulthood. To explore the possible 
mechanisms behind heart diseases in adulthood following maternal nutrient 
restriction, dams were fed a nutrient-restricted (NR: 50%) or control (100%) 
diet from 28 to 78 days of gestation. Both groups were then fed 100% of 
requirements to lambing. At 6 years of age, female offspring of NR and control 
ewes of similar weight and body condition were subjected to ad libitum feeding 
of a highly palatable diet for 12 weeks. Cardiac geometry, post-insulin receptor 
signaling, autophagy and proinflammatory cytokines were evaluated in hearts from 
adult offspring. Our results indicated that maternal nutrient restriction 
overtly increased body weight gain and triggered cardiac remodeling in offspring 
following the 12-week ad libitum feeding. Phosphorylation of insulin receptor 
substrate-1 (IRS1) was increased in left but not right ventricles from NR 
offspring. Levels of signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 were 
up-regulated in left ventricles, whereas expression of tumor necrosis factor-α 
and toll-like receptor-4 was enhanced in right ventricles, in adult offspring of 
maternal nutrition-restricted ewes. No significant differences were found in 
pan-IRS1, pan-AMP-dependent protein kinase (AMPK), pan-Akt, phosphorylated AMPK, 
phosphorylated Akt, glucose transporter 4, phosphorylated mammalian target of 
rapamycin, Beclin-1 and microtubule-associated protein 1 light-chain 3 II 
proteins in left and right ventricles between the control and NR offspring. 
These data revealed that maternal nutrient restriction during early to mid 
gestation may predispose adult offspring to cardiac remodeling possibly 
associated with phosphorylation of IRS1 as well as proinflammatory cytokines but 
not autophagy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2012.10.001
PMCID: PMC3633637
PMID: 23333094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
