1. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2013 Apr;1832(4):574-84. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbadis.2013.01.013. Epub 2013 Jan 23.

Mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase obliterates endoplasmic reticulum 
stress-induced cardiac contractile dysfunction via correction of autophagy.

Zhang B(1), Zhang Y, La Cour KH, Richmond KL, Wang XM, Ren J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, People's Republic of China.

ER stress triggers myocardial contractile dysfunction while effective 
therapeutic regimen is still lacking. Mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase 
(ALDH2), an essential mitochondrial enzyme governing mitochondrial and cardiac 
function, displays distinct beneficial effect on the heart. This study was 
designed to evaluate the effect of ALDH2 on ER stress-induced cardiac anomalies 
and the underlying mechanism involved with a special focus on autophagy. WT and 
ALDH2 transgenic mice were subjected to the ER stress inducer thapsigargin 
(1mg/kg, i.p., 48h). Echocardiographic, cardiomyocyte contractile and 
intracellular Ca(2+) properties as well as myocardial histology, autophagy and 
autophagy regulatory proteins were evaluated. ER stress led to compromised 
echocardiographic indices (elevated LVESD, reduced fractional shortening and 
cardiac output), cardiomyocyte contractile and intracellular Ca(2+) properties 
and cell survival, associated with upregulated autophagy, dampened 
phosphorylation of Akt and its downstream signal molecules TSC2 and mTOR, the 
effects of which were alleviated or mitigated by ALDH2. Thapsigargin promoted ER 
stress proteins Gadd153 and GRP78 without altering cardiomyocyte size and 
interstitial fibrosis, the effects of which were unaffected by ALDH2. Treatment 
with thapsigargin in vitro mimicked in vivo ER stress-induced cardiomyocyte 
contractile anomalies including depressed peak shortening and maximal velocity 
of shortening/relengthening as well as prolonged relengthening duration, the 
effect of which was abrogated by the autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine and the 
ALDH2 activator Alda-1. Interestingly, Alda-1-induced beneficial effect against 
ER stress was obliterated by autophagy inducer rapamycin, Akt inhibitor AktI and 
mTOR inhibitor RAD001. These data suggest a beneficial role of ALDH2 against ER 
stress-induced cardiac anomalies possibly through autophagy reduction.

Copyright Â© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2013.01.013
PMCID: PMC3578096
PMID: 23354068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
