1. Gerontology. 2013;59(4):340-8. doi: 10.1159/000348599. Epub 2013 Apr 9.

Metabolic control by target of rapamycin and autophagy during ageing - a 
mini-review.

Markaki M(1), Tavernarakis N.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Foundation for Research and 
Technology - Hellas, Heraklion, Greece.

The conserved target of rapamycin (TOR) pathway integrates signals from nutrient 
and energy availability, growth factors and stress to regulate cell growth and 
proliferation, development and metabolism. Growing evidence suggests that TOR 
signalling controls the rate at which cells and tissues age, thereby 
contributing to whole-organism ageing. Although significant progress has been 
made in the last decades towards understanding fundamental aspects of the ageing 
process, the precise mechanisms underlying the age-related effects of TOR are 
still not fully understood. TOR interfaces with several cellular processes, such 
as DNA transcription, mRNA translation, protein turnover and autophagy, among 
others. Interestingly, TOR regulates various aspects of metabolism including 
mitochondrial function and lipid metabolism. Inhibition of TOR activity 
stimulates autophagy, a conserved lysosomal catabolic pathway that controls the 
degradation and turnover of macromolecules and organelles. Autophagy also has an 
important role in maintaining metabolic homeostasis at both the cellular and 
whole-organism level. Ageing in diverse organisms ranging from yeast to mammals 
appears to be associated with insufficient autophagy. Here, we summarize recent 
developments that outline how TOR and autophagy modulate the ageing process, 
with special emphasis on their role in the regulation of metabolism. A better 
understanding of the complex interplay between TOR, autophagy and ageing will 
pave the way for the development of novel therapeutic strategies to treat 
age-related pathologies.

Copyright Â© 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000348599
PMID: 23594965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
