1. Zhonghua Shi Yan He Lin Chuang Bing Du Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Feb;27(1):35-8.

[Inhibition of hepatitis C virus replication by mycophenolic acid in 
hepatocytes].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen H(1), Ye L, Su JM, Li Y, Zeng JR, Huo WZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics Digestion Internal Medicine, The first Affiliated 
Hospital of Guangxi Medical University, Guangxi 530021 ,China. haolphd@163.com

OBJECTIVE: It is well known that cyclosporine A (CsA), a widely used 
immunosuppressant for clinical organ transplantation, has the ability to inhibit 
HCV replication. In this study, the effects of several other immunosuppressants, 
including mycophenolic acid (MPA), rapamycin and FK-506, on HCV replication were 
examined in human hepatocytes.
METHODS: HCV JFH-l-infected hepatocytes were treated with immunosuppressants or 
with control vehicles. The levels of viral RNA and the expression of HCV core 
protein were determined by quantitative real-time RT-PCR and Western Blot assay, 
respectively.
RESULTS: MPA-treated cells showed significant decreases in both viral RNA and 
HCV Core protein expression compared with the control cells. Moreover, MPA 
treatments of hepatocytes before, during or after HCV infection could 
significantly inhibit viral replication. In contrast, rapamycin and FK-506 had 
little effect on HCV replication. Mechanism research disclosed that the 
inhibition of HCV replication by MPA was mainly due to its depletion of 
guanosine, a purine nucleoside crucial for synthesis of guanosine triphosphate 
(GTP), which is required for initiation of HCV RNA replication. The supplement 
of exogenous guanosine could reverse most of anti-HCV effect of MPA.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that MPA, through the depletion of guanosine, 
inhibits HCV JFH-1 replication in hepatocytes, suggesting that MPA may be 
beneficial for HCV-infected transplant recipients.

PMID: 23855126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
