1. J Endocrinol. 2013 Oct 4;219(2):109-17. doi: 10.1530/JOE-13-0124. Print 2013 
Nov.

Pioglitazone does not improve insulin signaling in mice with GH over-expression.

Gesing A(1), Bartke A, Masternak MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Geriatrics Research, Southern Illinois 
University School of Medicine, 801 North Rutledge Street, Room 4389, 
Springfield, Illinois 62794-9628, USA Department of Oncological Endocrinology, 
Medical University of Lodz, Zeligowski Street, No 7/9, 90-752 Lodz, Poland 
Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences, College of Medicine, University of 
Central Florida, 6900 Lake Nona Boulevard, Orlando, Florida 32827, USA Institute 
of Human Genetics, Polish Academy of Sciences, Strzeszynska Street, No 32, 
60-479 Poznan, Poland.

Type 2 diabetes and obesity are very serious health problems in both developed 
and developing countries. An increased level of GH is known to promote insulin 
resistance. Transgenic (Tg) mice over-expressing bovine GH are short-living and 
characterized, among other traits, by hyperinsulinemia and increased insulin 
resistance in comparison with normal (N) mice. Pioglitazone (PIO) is a member of 
the thiazolidinediones - a group of insulin-sensitizing drugs that are selective 
agonists of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARÎ³). The aim of 
the study was to analyze the effects of PIO on the insulin-signaling pathway in 
Tg and N mice. Plasma levels of insulin and glucose as well as hepatic levels of 
proteins involved in insulin signaling were analyzed by ELISA or western blot 
methods. Treatment with PIO decreased plasma level of glucose in N mice only. 
Similarly, PIO increased insulin sensitivity (expressed as the relative insulin 
sensitivity index; RISI) only in N mice. In the liver, PIO decreased the 
phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS1) at a serine residue 
(Ser(307)-pS-IRS1), which inhibits insulin action, and had a tendency to 
increase tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS2 (Tyr-pY-IRS2) only in N mice but did 
not affect either of these parameters in Tg mice. Levels of total and 
phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin were increased in Tg mice. 
Moreover, the level of AKT2 was decreased by PIO in N mice only. In conclusion, 
the lack of improvement of insulin sensitivity in insulin-resistant Tg mice 
during PIO treatment indicates that chronically elevated GH levels can inhibit 
the beneficial effects of PIO on insulin signaling.

DOI: 10.1530/JOE-13-0124
PMCID: PMC3811004
PMID: 23946430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DECLARATION OF INTEREST There is no conflict of 
interest that could be perceived as prejudicing the impartiality of the research 
reported.
