1. Exp Gerontol. 2014 Feb;50:57-63. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.11.020. Epub 2013
Dec  4.

Lifespan extension by cranberry supplementation partially requires SOD2 and is 
life stage independent.

Sun Y(1), Yolitz J(1), Alberico T(1), Sun X(1), Zou S(2).

Author information:
(1)Functional Genomics Unit, Translational Gerontology Branch, National 
Institute on Aging, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.
(2)Functional Genomics Unit, Translational Gerontology Branch, National 
Institute on Aging, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA. Electronic address: 
zous@mail.nih.gov.

Many nutraceuticals and pharmaceuticals have been shown to promote healthspan 
and lifespan. However, the mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of 
prolongevity interventions and the time points at which interventions should be 
implemented to achieve beneficial effects are not well characterized. We have 
previously shown that a cranberry-containing nutraceutical can promote lifespan 
in worms and flies and delay age-related functional decline of pancreatic cells 
in rats. Here we investigated the mechanism underlying lifespan extension 
induced by cranberry and the effects of short-term or life stage-specific 
interventions with cranberry on lifespan in Drosophila. We found that lifespan 
extension induced by cranberry was associated with reduced phosphorylation of 
ERK, a component of oxidative stress response MAPK signaling, and slightly 
increased phosphorylation of AKT, a component of insulin-like signaling. 
Lifespan extension was also associated with a reduced level of 4-hydroxynonenal 
protein adducts, a biomarker of lipid oxidation. Moreover, lifespan extension 
induced by cranberry was partially suppressed by knockdown of SOD2, a major 
mitochondrial superoxide scavenger. Furthermore, cranberry supplementation was 
administered in three life stages of adult flies, health span (3-30 days), 
transition span (31-60 days) and senescence span (61 days to the end when all 
flies died). Cranberry supplementation during any of these life stages extended 
the remaining lifespan relative to the non-supplemented and life stage-matched 
controls. These findings suggest that cranberry supplementation is sufficient to 
promote longevity when implemented during any life stage, likely through 
reducing oxidative damage.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.11.020
PMCID: PMC3914538
PMID: 24316039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
