1. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2014 Jun;39(7):1763-76. doi: 10.1038/npp.2014.24.
Epub  2014 Jan 30.

Monoacylglycerol lipase inhibition blocks chronic stress-induced depressive-like 
behaviors via activation of mTOR signaling.

Zhong P(1), Wang W(1), Pan B(1), Liu X(1), Zhang Z(2), Long JZ(3), Zhang HT(4), 
Cravatt BF(3), Liu QS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Medical College of Wisconsin, 
Milwaukee, WI, USA.
(2)1] Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Medical College of Wisconsin, 
Milwaukee, WI, USA [2] Department of Geriatrics, Qi-Lu Hospital of Shandong 
University, Key Laboratory of Proteomics of Shandong Province, Shandong, China.
(3)The Skaggs Institute for Chemical Biology, Department of Chemical Physiology, 
The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, West Virginia University 
Health Sciences Center, Morgantown, WV, USA.

The endocannabinoid (eCB) system regulates mood, emotion, and stress coping, and 
dysregulation of the eCB system is critically involved in pathophysiology of 
depression. The eCB ligand 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) is inactivated by 
monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL). Using chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUS) as 
a mouse model of depression, we examined how 2-AG signaling in the hippocampus 
was altered in depressive-like states and how this alteration contributed to 
depressive-like behavior. We report that CUS led to impairment of 
depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI) in mouse hippocampal CA1 
pyramidal neurons, and this deficiency in 2-AG-mediated retrograde synaptic 
depression was rescued by MAGL inhibitor JZL184. CUS induced depressive-like 
behaviors and decreased mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) activation in the 
hippocampus, and these biochemical and behavioral abnormalities were ameliorated 
by chronic JZL184 treatments. The effects of JZL184 were mediated by cannabinoid 
CB1 receptors. Genetic deletion of mTOR with adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector 
carrying the Cre recombinase in the hippocampus of mTORf/f mice recapitulated 
depressive-like behaviors induced by CUS and abrogated the antidepressant-like 
effects of chronic JZL184 treatments. Our results suggest that CUS decreases 
eCB-mTOR signaling in the hippocampus, leading to depressive-like behaviors, 
whereas MAGL inhibitor JZL184 produces antidepressant-like effects through 
enhancement of eCB-mTOR signaling.

DOI: 10.1038/npp.2014.24
PMCID: PMC4023150
PMID: 24476943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
