1. BMC Cell Biol. 2014 Feb 24;15:7. doi: 10.1186/1471-2121-15-7.

Rapamycin promoted thrombosis and platelet adhesion to endothelial cells by 
inducing membrane remodeling.

Jiang P(1), Lan Y, Luo J, Ren YL, Liu DG, Pang JX, Liu J, Li J, Wang C, Cai JP.

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Geriatrics, Beijing Hospital and Beijing Institute of 
Geriatrics, Ministry of Health, No,1, DaHua Road, Dong Dan, Beijing 100730, 
P,R,China. pingjiang@bjmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Recently, evidence indicated that the rapamycin-eluting stent which 
was used worldwide may contribute to an increased risk for thrombosis. On the 
contrary, other researchers found it was safe. Thus, it is necessary to clarify 
the effect of rapamycin on thrombosis and the corresponding mechanisms.
RESULTS: The effects of rapamycin in vivo were evaluated by modified deep vein 
thrombosis animal model. The platelets were from healthy volunteers and the 
platelet-endothelium (purchased from ATCC) adhesion in cultured endothelial 
cells was assessed. Membrane rufflings in endothelial cells were examined by 
confocal and electron microscope. Thrombus formation increased in rats that were 
injected with rapamycin. Electron microscope analysis exhibited microvilli on 
the rapamycin-treated endothelium in rats. Rapamycin enhanced membrane ruffling 
in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and adhesion of platelets to 
HUVECs. The platelet-HUVECs adhesion was attenuated when cells were treated with 
cytochalacin B. Inhibition of autophagy by 3-methyladenine led to suppression of 
membrane ruffles in HUVECs and augmentation of platelet-endothelial adhesion.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, we found that endothelial membrane remodeling 
induced by rapamycin is crucial for the adhesion of platelets to endothelial 
cells and thereby for thrombosis in vivo, and that the endothelial membrane 
remodeling is autophagy dependent.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2121-15-7
PMCID: PMC3936831
PMID: 24564184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
