1. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2014 May 15;306(10):E1198-204. doi: 
10.1152/ajpendo.00600.2013. Epub 2014 Apr 1.

Activation of mTORC1 signaling and protein synthesis in human muscle following 
blood flow restriction exercise is inhibited by rapamycin.

Gundermann DM(1), Walker DK(1), Reidy PT(1), Borack MS(1), Dickinson JM(2), 
Volpi E(3), Rasmussen BB(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Metabolism, Division of Rehabilitation Sciences.
(2)Department of Nutrition and Metabolism, Division of Rehabilitation Sciences, 
Sealy Center on Aging, and.
(3)Division of Rehabilitation Sciences, Sealy Center on Aging, and Department of 
Internal Medicine-Geriatrics, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, 
Texas.
(4)Department of Nutrition and Metabolism, Division of Rehabilitation Sciences, 
Sealy Center on Aging, and blrasmus@utmb.edu.

Restriction of blood flow to a contracting muscle during low-intensity 
resistance exercise (BFR exercise) stimulates mTORC1 signaling and protein 
synthesis in human muscle within 3 h postexercise. However, there is a lack of 
mechanistic data to provide a direct link between mTORC1 activation and protein 
synthesis in human skeletal muscle following BFR exercise. Therefore, the 
primary purpose of this study was to determine whether mTORC1 signaling is 
necessary for stimulating muscle protein synthesis after BFR exercise. A 
secondary aim was to describe the 24-h time course response in muscle protein 
synthesis and breakdown following BFR exercise. Sixteen healthy young men were 
randomized to one of two groups. Both the control (CON) and rapamycin (RAP) 
groups completed BFR exercise; however, RAP was administered 16 mg of the mTOR 
inhibitor rapamycin 1 h prior to BFR exercise. BFR exercise consisted of four 
sets of leg extension exercise at 20% of 1 RM. Muscle biopsies were collected 
from the vastus lateralis before exercise and at 3, 6, and 24 h after BFR 
exercise. Mixed-muscle protein fractional synthetic rate increased by 42% at 3 h 
postexercise and 69% at 24 h postexercise in CON, whereas this increase was 
inhibited in the RAP group. Phosphorylation of mTOR (Ser(2448)) and S6K1 
(Thr(389)) was also increased in CON but inhibited in RAP. Mixed-muscle protein 
breakdown was not significantly different across time or groups. We conclude 
that activation of mTORC1 signaling and protein synthesis in human muscle 
following BFR exercise is inhibited in the presence of rapamycin.

Copyright Â© 2014 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.00600.2013
PMCID: PMC4116405
PMID: 24691032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
