1. Nutr Res. 2014 Apr;34(4):368-74. doi: 10.1016/j.nutres.2014.02.003. Epub 2014 
Feb 10.

β-Hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate facilitates PI3K/Akt-dependent mammalian target of 
rapamycin and FoxO1/3a phosphorylations and alleviates tumor necrosis factor 
α/interferon γ-induced MuRF-1 expression in C2C12 cells.

Kimura K(1), Cheng XW(2), Inoue A(1), Hu L(1), Koike T(3), Kuzuya M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Healthcare & Geriatrics, Nagoya University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan.
(2)Department of Community Healthcare & Geriatrics, Nagoya University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan. Electronic address: 
xianwu@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Sports Medicine, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Nagoya, Japan.
(4)Department of Community Healthcare & Geriatrics, Nagoya University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan. Electronic address: 
kuzuya@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp.

β-Hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate (HMB) prevents deleterious muscle responses under 
pathological conditions, including tumor- and chronic steroid therapy-related 
muscle losses. Here, we investigated the hypothesis that HMB may modulate the 
balance between protein synthesis and degradation in the PI3K/Akt-mediated 
mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and FoxO1/FoxO3a-dependent mechanisms in 
differentiated C2C12 muscle cells. We also tested the effect of HMB on the 
expression of MuRF-1 and atrogin-1 in response to the inflammatory stress. 
β-Hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate up-regulated phosphorylation of Akt and mTOR, and 
these effects were completely abolished in the presence of PI3K inhibitor 
LY294002. β-Hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate also up-regulated FoxO1 and FoxO3a 
phosphorylation, and these changes were inhibited by LY294002. Although, 
unexpectedly, HMB failed to reduce the expressions of atrophy-related atrogin-1 
messenger RNA and the protein response to the proinflammatory cytokines tumor 
necrosis factor α plus interferon γ, HMB did attenuate the MuRF-1 expression. 
Thus, HMB appears to restore the balance between intracellular protein synthesis 
and proteolysis, likely via activation of the PI3K/Akt-dependent mTOR and 
FoxO1/FoxO3a signaling pathway and the reduction of tumor necrosis factor 
α/interferon γ-induced MuRF-1 expression, thereby ameliorating aging-related 
muscle atrophy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nutres.2014.02.003
PMID: 24774073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
