1. Anesthesiology. 2014 Jul;121(1):149-59. doi: 10.1097/ALN.0000000000000285.

(R,S)-Ketamine metabolites (R,S)-norketamine and (2S,6S)-hydroxynorketamine 
increase the mammalian target of rapamycin function.

Paul RK(1), Singh NS, Khadeer M, Moaddel R, Sanghvi M, Green CE, O'Loughlin K, 
Torjman MC, Bernier M, Wainer IW.

Author information:
(1)From the Laboratory of Clinical Investigation (R.K.P., N.S.S., M.K., R.M., 
M.S., I.W.W.) and Translational Gerontology Branch (M.B.), National Institute on 
Aging, National Institutes of Health, Baltimore, Maryland; SRI Biosciences, SRI 
International, Menlo Park, California (C.E.G., K.O.); and Department of 
Anesthesiology, Cooper Medical School of Rowan University, Camden, New Jersey 
(M.C.T., I.W.W.).

Comment in
    Anesthesiology. 2014 Jul;121(1):4-5.

BACKGROUND: Subanesthetic doses of (R,S)-ketamine are used in the treatment of 
neuropathic pain and depression. In the rat, the antidepressant effects of 
(R,S)-ketamine are associated with increased activity and function of mammalian 
target of rapamycin (mTOR); however, (R,S)-ketamine is extensively metabolized 
and the contribution of its metabolites to increased mTOR signaling is unknown.
METHODS: Rats (n = 3 per time point) were given (R,S)-ketamine, 
(R,S)-norketamine, and (2S,6S)-hydroxynorketamine and their effect on the mTOR 
pathway determined after 20, 30, and 60 min. PC-12 pheochromocytoma cells (n = 3 
per experiment) were treated with escalating concentrations of each compound and 
the impact on the mTOR pathway was determined.
RESULTS: The phosphorylation of mTOR and its downstream targets was 
significantly increased in rat prefrontal cortex tissue by more than ~2.5-, 
~25-, and ~2-fold, respectively, in response to a 60-min postadministration of 
(R,S)-ketamine, (R,S)-norketamine, and (2S,6S)-hydroxynorketamine (P < 0.05, 
ANOVA analysis). In PC-12 pheochromocytoma cells, the test compounds activated 
the mTOR pathway in a concentration-dependent manner, which resulted in a 
significantly higher expression of serine racemase with ~2-fold increases at 
0.05 nM (2S,6S)-hydroxynorketamine, 10 nM (R,S)-norketamine, and 1,000 nM 
(R,S)-ketamine. The potency of the effect reflected antagonistic activity of the 
test compounds at the α7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor.
CONCLUSIONS: The data demonstrate that (R,S)-norketamine and 
(2S,6S)-hydroxynorketamine have potent pharmacological activity both in vitro 
and in vivo and contribute to the molecular effects produced by subanesthetic 
doses of (R,S)-ketamine. The results suggest that the determination of the 
mechanisms underlying the antidepressant and analgesic effects of (R,S)-ketamine 
requires a full study of the parent compound and its metabolites.

DOI: 10.1097/ALN.0000000000000285
PMCID: PMC4061505
PMID: 24936922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: Irving W. Wainer, Ruin 
Moaddel, Michel Bernier and Marc C. Torjman are listed as co-inventors on a 
patent application for the use of ketamine metabolites in the treatment of 
bipolar disorder and major depression. They have assigned their rights in the 
patent to the U.S. government but will share a percentage of any royalties that 
may be received by the government. Rajib K. Paul, Nagendra S. Singh, Mohammed 
Khadeer, Mitesh Sanghvi, Carol E Green and Kathleen O’Loughlin declare no 
competing interests.
