1. J Immunol. 1997 Jun 15;158(12):5642-8.

The regulation of p27Kip1 expression following the polyclonal activation of 
murine G0 T cells.

Kwon TK(1), Buchholz MA, Ponsalle P, Chrest FJ, Nordin AA.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Clinical Physiology, Gerontology Research Center, National 
Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.

Polyclonal activation of murine G0 T cells with immobilized anti-CD3 induces 
entry into the cell cycle as well as the subsequent cytokine-dependent 
proliferative response. G0 T cells express high levels of p27Kip1 protein and 
specific mRNA, which decline rapidly following activation. The decline in the 
expression of p27Kip1 and sequestering of the inhibitory protein by cdk4 and 
cdk6 correlated with the increase in cdk2 kinase activity during the G1 phase. 
Anti-CD3 activation of G0 T cells in the presence of cyclosporin A or rapamycin 
inhibited the down-regulation of p27Kip1, the cellular levels of the inhibitor 
remained high, and the cells remained in the G1 phase. PBu2 activation of G0 T 
cells also did not result in the down-regulation of p27Kip1 and the cells 
remained in G1. In each instance IL-2 restored the down-regulation of p27Kip1, 
resulting in a significant reduction in the level of the inhibitor, and 
stimulated the cells to progress through the cell cycle. Jurkat cells 
transfected with the p27GL-988 plasmid containing +1 to -988 nt of the p27Kip1 
promoter region and subsequently exposed to rIL-2 resulted in a significant 
reduction in the activity of the p27Kip1 promoter. These findings suggest that 
in addition to providing the signals required for activated T cells to traverse 
G1/S, IL-2 also influences the promoter function of p27Kip1, which effectively 
induces transcriptional down-regulation of the gene.

PMID: 9190912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
