1. IEEE/ACM Trans Comput Biol Bioinform. 2020 Jan-Feb;17(1):358-364. doi: 
10.1109/TCBB.2018.2879504. Epub 2018 Nov 5.

Using Unlabeled Data to Discover Bivariate Causality with Deep Restricted 
Boltzmann Machines.

Sokolovska N, Permiakova O, Forslund SK, Zucker JD.

An important question in microbiology is whether treatment causes changes in gut 
flora, and whether it also affects metabolism. The reconstruction of causal 
relations purely from non-temporal observational data is challenging. We address 
the problem of causal inference in a bivariate case, where the joint 
distribution of two variables is observed. We consider, in particular, data on 
discrete domains. The state-of-the-art causal inference methods for continuous 
data suffer from high computational complexity. Some modern approaches are not 
suitable for categorical data, and others need to estimate and fix multiple 
hyper-parameters. In this contribution, we introduce a novel method of causal 
inference which is based on the widely used assumption that if X causes Y, then 
P(X) and P(Y|X) are independent. We propose to explore a semi-supervised 
approach where P(Y|X) and P(X) are estimated from labeled and unlabeled data 
respectively, whereas the marginal probability is estimated potentially from 
much more (cheap unlabeled) data than the conditional distribution. We validate 
the proposed method on the standard cause-effect pairs. We illustrate by 
experiments on several benchmarks of biological network reconstruction that the 
proposed approach is very competitive in terms of computational time and 
accuracy compared to the state-of-the-art methods. Finally, we apply the 
proposed method to an original medical task where we study whether drugs 
confound human metagenome.

DOI: 10.1109/TCBB.2018.2879504
PMID: 30403636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
