1. Curr Diabetes Rev. 2020;16(2):143-147. doi: 10.2174/1573399814666181119145750.

The Metformin Paradox.

Weijers RNM(1), Bekedam DJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Teaching Hospital, Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis, 
Amsterdam, Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: The Diabetes Prevention Program study results indicated that 
metformin therapy was not as beneficial as a lifestyle modification for delaying 
the development of type 2 diabetes in individuals at high risk of the disease. A 
key feature in the etiology of type 2 diabetes mellitus, which appears in the 
prediabetic phase, is a significant deficiency, compared to healthy controls, in 
highly flexible poly-cis-unsaturated fatty acyl chains in membrane 
phospholipids. This deficiency lowers membrane flexibility, which in turn, 
reduces the amount of all functional Class I glucose transporters, and thereby 
reduces glucose-mediated ATP production. This leads to an increase in 
essentially saturated free fatty acid (FFA) levels for fatty-acid-mediated ATP 
production, which will set up a vicious cycle of raising the levels of 
essentially saturated FFAs and lowering the level of transmembrane glucose 
transport. Metformin suppresses hepatic gluconeogenesis, which reduces the 
plasma glucose concentration.
CONCLUSION: We hypothesize that chronic metformin treatment leads to an 
additional increase in essentially saturated FFAs, which causes an additional 
rise in membrane stiffness and hypoxia. So we propose that all these 
metformin-mediated activities accelerated the onset of type 2 diabetes in the 
participants of the metformin group in the Diabetes Prevention Program study, 
compared to the participants of the lifestyle-intervention group in this study. 
We propose that the biochemical reactions, involved in the fatty-acid-mediated 
ATP production, play an important part in the increase of the observed 
essentially saturated FFA concentrations. These statements should also extend to 
the metformin therapy of individuals with type 2 diabetes.

CopyrightÂ© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1573399814666181119145750
PMID: 30451115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
