1. Curr Med Chem. 2020;27(7):1089-1131. doi: 10.2174/0929867326666190119154152.

Endothelium as a Therapeutic Target in Diabetes Mellitus: From Basic Mechanisms 
to Clinical Practice.

Tentolouris A(1), Eleftheriadou I(1), Tzeravini E(1), Tsilingiris D(1), Paschou 
SA(1), Siasos G(2), Tentolouris N(1).

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Center, 1st Department of Propaedeutic Internal Medicine, Medical 
School, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Laiko General Hospital, 
Athens, Greece.
(2)First Department of Cardiology, Hippokration Hospital, National and 
Kapodistrian University of Athens Medical School, Athens, Greece.

Endothelium plays an essential role in human homeostasis by regulating arterial 
blood pressure, distributing nutrients and hormones as well as providing a 
smooth surface that modulates coagulation, fibrinolysis and inflammation. 
Endothelial dysfunction is present in Diabetes Mellitus (DM) and contributes to 
the development and progression of macrovascular disease, while it is also 
associated with most of the microvascular complications such as diabetic 
retinopathy, nephropathy and neuropathy. Hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, 
hyperinsulinemia and dyslipidemia are the main factors involved in the 
pathogenesis of endothelial dysfunction. Regarding antidiabetic medication, 
metformin, gliclazide, pioglitazone, exenatide and dapagliflozin exert a 
beneficial effect on Endothelial Function (EF); glimepiride and glibenclamide, 
dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors and liraglutide have a neutral effect, while 
studies examining the effect of insulin analogues, empagliflozin and 
canagliflozin on EF are limited. In terms of lipid-lowering medication, statins 
improve EF in subjects with DM, while data from short-term trials suggest that 
fenofibrate improves EF; ezetimibe also improves EF but further studies are 
required in people with DM. The effect of acetylsalicylic acid on EF is 
dose-dependent and lower doses improve EF while higher ones do not. Clopidogrel 
improves EF, but more studies in subjects with DM are required. Furthermore, 
angiotensin- converting-enzyme inhibitors /angiotensin II receptor blockers 
improve EF. Phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors improve EF locally in the corpus 
cavernosum. Finally, cilostazol exerts favorable effect on EF, nevertheless, 
more data in people with DM are required.

CopyrightÂ© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0929867326666190119154152
PMID: 30663560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
