1. Acta Cardiol. 2020 Jun;75(3):211-217. doi: 10.1080/00015385.2019.1569313. Epub
 2019 Feb 8.

Contemporary choice of glucose lowering agents in heart failure patients with 
type 2 diabetes.

Martens P(1)(2), Janssens J(1), Ramaekers J(1), Dupont M(1), Mullens W(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Ziekenhuis Oost-Limburg, Genk, Belgium.
(2)Doctoral School for Medicine and Life Sciences, Hasselt University, 
Diepenbeek, Belgium.
(3)Faculty of Medicine and Life Sciences, Biomedical Research Institute, Hasselt 
University, Diepenbeek, Belgium.

Background: The choice of glucose lowering agent in heart failure (HF)-patients 
can have a strong effect on HF-related adverse events, with some classes 
increasing and other classes reducing the risk. Little data is available about 
the choice of glucose lowering agents in HF-patients with 
type-2-diabetes.Methods: We performed a cross-sectional single centre point 
analysis of all patients with both a diagnoses of HF and type-2-diabetes 
followed in a tertiary HF-clinic. Medical records were used to determine the 
choice of current glucose lowering agent. Data at the time of cross-sectional 
analysis was used to determine potential eligibility to a 
sodium-glucose-linked-transporter-2-inhibitor (SGLT2-inhibitor) based on the 
enrolment criteria of the EMPAREG-OUTCOME-trial.Results: A total of 571 
HF-patients with diabetes were assessed on June the first 2017. The majority of 
patients were either managed with one or two glucose lowering agents (43% 
respectively 34%), with metformin (N = 391;61%), Insulin (N = 278;49%) and 
sulfonylurea (N = 259;45%) being the most frequently employed treatments. 
SGLT2-inhibitor use was low (N = 7;1%). According to trial criteria 184 patients 
(32%) qualified for an SGLT2-inhibitor. With main reasons for ineligibility 
being a HbA1C < 7% (N = 324) or a glomerular-filtration-rate <30 ml/min 
(N = 154; of whom 101 patients overlapped with HbA1C < 7%). However 54% of 
patients with a HbA1C < 7% were treated with ≥2 glucose lowering agents from a 
class other than SGLT-2-inhibiton.Conclusion: Despite potential eligibility, 
SGLT2-inhibition remains an underused glucose lowering agent in this 
contemporary HF-population. Additional research is necessary on optimising its 
implementation in clinical practice, which might include switching glucose 
lowering therapies in patients at HbA1C-target.

DOI: 10.1080/00015385.2019.1569313
PMID: 30736724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
