1. Anesth Analg. 2020 Feb;130(2):525-534. doi: 10.1213/ANE.0000000000004057.

Early Treatment With Metformin in a Mice Model of Complex Regional Pain Syndrome 
Reduces Pain and Edema.

Das V(1), Kroin JS, Moric M, McCarthy RJ, Buvanendran A.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Anesthesiology, Rush University Medical Center, 
Chicago, Illinois.

BACKGROUND: Metformin, an adenosine monophosphate (AMP)-activated protein kinase 
activator, as well as a common drug for type 2 diabetes, has previously been 
shown to decrease mechanical allodynia in mice with neuropathic pain. The 
objective of this study is to determine if treatment with metformin during the 
first 3 weeks after fracture would produce a long-term decrease in mechanical 
allodynia and improve a complex behavioral task (burrowing) in a mouse tibia 
fracture model with signs of complex regional pain syndrome.
METHODS: Mice were allocated into distal tibia fracture or nonfracture groups (n 
= 12 per group). The fracture was stabilized with intramedullary pinning and 
external casting for 21 days. Animals were then randomized into 4 groups (n = 6 
per group): (1) fracture, metformin treated, (2) fracture, saline treated, (3) 
nonfracture, metformin treated, and (4) nonfracture, saline treated. Mice 
received daily intraperitoneal injections of metformin 200 mg/kg or saline 
between days 14 and 21. After cast removal, von Frey force withdrawal (every 3 
days) and burrowing (every 7 days) were tested between 25 and 56 days. Paw width 
was measured for 14 days after cast removal. AMP-activated protein kinase 
downregulation at 4 weeks after tibia fracture in the dorsal root ganglia was 
examined by immunohistochemistry for changes in the AMP-activated protein kinase 
pathway.
RESULTS: Metformin injections elevated von Frey thresholds (reduced mechanical 
allodynia) in complex regional pain syndrome mice versus saline-treated fracture 
mice between days 25 and 56 (difference of mean area under the curve, 42.5 g·d; 
95% CI of the difference, 21.0-63.9; P < .001). Metformin also reversed 
burrowing deficits compared to saline-treated tibial fracture mice (difference 
of mean area under the curve, 546 g·d; 95% CI of the difference, 68-1024; P < 
.022). Paw width (edema) was reduced in metformin-treated fracture mice. After 
tibia fracture, AMP-activated protein kinase was downregulated in dorsal root 
ganglia neurons, and mechanistic target of rapamycin, ribosomal S6 protein, and 
eukaryotic initiation factor 2α were upregulated.
CONCLUSIONS: The important finding of this study was that early treatment with 
metformin reduces mechanical allodynia in a complex regional pain syndrome model 
in mice. Our findings suggest that AMP-activated protein kinase activators may 
be a viable therapeutic target for the treatment of pain associated with complex 
regional pain syndrome.

DOI: 10.1213/ANE.0000000000004057
PMID: 30801357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
