1. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2020 Jan 1;75(1):32-39. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glz058.

Differential Effects of Rapamycin and Metformin in Combination With Rapamycin on 
Mechanisms of Proteostasis in Cultured Skeletal Myotubes.

Wolff CA(1), Reid JJ(2), Musci RV(1), Linden MA(1), Konopka AR(3), Peelor FF(2), 
Miller BF(2), Hamilton KL(1), Bruns DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Exercise Science, Colorado State University, Fort 
Collins.
(2)Aging and Metabolism Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, 
Oklahoma City.
(3)Department of Kinesiology and Community Health, University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign.

Erratum in
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2020 Apr 17;75(5):892.

mTOR inhibition extends life span in multiple organisms. In mice, when metformin 
treatment (Met) is added to the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin (Rap), median and 
maximal life span is extended to a greater degree than with Rap or Met alone. 
Treatments that extend life span often maintain proteostasis. However, it is 
less clear how individual tissues, such as skeletal muscle, maintain 
proteostasis with life span-extending treatments. In C2C12 myotubes, we used 
deuterium oxide (D2O) to directly measure two primary determinants of 
proteostasis, protein synthesis, and degradation rates, with Rap or Met+Rap 
treatments. We accounted for the independent effects of cell growth and loss, 
and isolated the contribution of autophagy and mitochondrial fission to obtain a 
comprehensive assessment of protein turnover. Compared with control, both Rap 
and Met+Rap treatments lowered mitochondrial protein synthesis rates (p < .001) 
and slowed cellular proliferation (p < .01). These changes resulted in greater 
activation of mechanisms promoting proteostasis for Rap, but not Met+Rap. 
Compared with control, both Rap and Met+Rap slowed protein breakdown. Autophagy 
and mitochondrial fission differentially influenced the proteostatic effects of 
Rap and Met+Rap in C2C12 myotubes. In conclusion, we demonstrate that Met+Rap 
did not increase protein turnover and that these treatments do not seem to 
promote proteostasis through increased autophagy.

Â© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glz058
PMCID: PMC6909916
PMID: 30820523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
