1. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2020 Jan 1;75(1):40-49. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glz069.

Brain Protein Synthesis Rates in the UM-HET3 Mouse Following Treatment With 
Rapamycin or Rapamycin With Metformin.

Reid JJ(1), Linden MA(2), Peelor FF(1), Miller RA(3), Hamilton KL(2), Miller 
BF(1).

Author information:
(1)Aging and Metabolism Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, 
Oklahoma City.
(2)Department of Health and Exercise Science, Colorado State University, Fort 
Collins.
(3)Department of Pathology and Paul F. Glenn Center, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor.

Treatment with the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor, rapamycin 
(RAP), alone and in combination with the antidiabetic drug, metformin (RAP+MET), 
extends lifespan in mice. The mechanisms underlying lifespan extension are 
unclear. One possibility is improved capacity for proteostatic maintenance. We 
have previously characterized peripheral protein synthesis rates following 
treatment with RAP. However, it is unknown if RAP+MET elicits similar changes, 
or if either treatment affects protein synthesis in the brain. We hypothesized 
that 8 weeks of treatment with RAP and RAP+MET would alter brain protein 
synthesis rates to reflect proteostatic processes. Using the stable isotopic 
tracer, deuterium oxide (D2O), we demonstrate in UM-HET3 mice that protein 
synthesis rates measured in whole brain were unaffected by treatment in young 
male mice, whereas RAP+MET decreased mitochondrial protein synthesis in young 
females. Conversely, RAP increased mitochondrial protein synthesis rates in 
older females. Activity through the AMPK/mTOR pathway was affected in a 
sex-specific manner in young mice, and minimal changes were observed in the 
older cohort. Thus, we establish D2O for measurements of biogenesis in the 
brain. These results provide initial insights into the effects of RAP and 
RAP+MET on brain protein synthesis. Additionally, these data emphasize that 
responses to slowed aging treatments vary with sex and age.

Â© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glz069
PMCID: PMC7175973
PMID: 30864661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
