1. J Dermatolog Treat. 2020 May;31(3):261-263. doi:
10.1080/09546634.2019.1592100.  Epub 2019 Mar 25.

Metformin use in hidradenitis suppurativa.

Jennings L(1), Hambly R(1)(2)(3), Hughes R(1), Moriarty B(1), Kirby B(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)The Charles Centre, Department of Dermatology, St Vincent's University 
Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)School of Medicine and Medical Sciences, University College Dublin, Dublin, 
Ireland.
(3)Wellcome-Health Research Board, Irish Clinical Academic Training (ICAT), 
Dublin, Ireland.
(4)Charles Institute of Dermatology, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.

Background: Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a chronic debilitating inflammatory 
disease, associated with metabolic syndrome, obesity and insulin resistance. 
Metformin, an oral hypoglycaemic agent, may play an important role in delaying 
or preventing the onset of diabetes and metabolic syndrome. Metformin has been 
reported as having efficacy in HS. It may have a role in the treatment of HS and 
its associated co-morbidities.Objective: To evaluate metformin use, response and 
tolerability in a HS population.Methods: A retrospective chart review of 
patients attending a specialist Dermatology HS clinic over 12 months. All 
patients treated with metformin were included.Results: Fifty-three HS patients 
received metformin; 85% female; mean age was 37 years and mean weight was 
102 kg. The mean duration of metformin was 11.3 months and mean dose was 
1.5 g/days. The 6- and 12-month drug survival were 61% and 39%, respectively. 
Metformin was well tolerated. Gastrointestinal side effects were experienced by 
11%. Subjective clinical response was seen in 68% (n = 36) with 19% (7/36) of 
these having quiescent disease with metformin monotherapy. 25% had no 
improvement. Insulin resistance was seen in 75%. Its presence did not predict 
clinical response to metformin.Conclusion: Metformin is an effective, well 
tolerated and inexpensive treatment that represents a viable treatment option 
for HS.Key message: Metformin is an effective; well tolerated and inexpensive 
treatment in the management of HS.

DOI: 10.1080/09546634.2019.1592100
PMID: 30893570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
