1. Eur J Cancer Prev. 2020 Jan;29(1):42-52. doi: 10.1097/CEJ.0000000000000514.

Effect of metformin on the risk of prostate cancer in patients with type 2 
diabetes by considering different confounding factors: a meta-analysis of 
observational studies.

Wang Y(1), Liu X, Yan P, Tang J, Chen T, Sun Y, Zhou W, Bi Y, Zhang ZJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of Health Sciences, 
Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.

Preclinical studies have suggested the antitumorigenic properties of metformin 
on prostate cancer; results from epidemiological studies remain contradictory. 
We aim to investigate the evidence of metformin and the risk of prostate cancer. 
PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library, and Web of Science databases were searched for 
eligible studies. Meta-analyses were carried out using the most fully adjusted 
hazard ratios and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals. Eighteen cohort 
studies and six case-control studies representing 2 009 504 male patients with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus were identified. The pooled HR of prostate cancer for 
metformin therapy was 0.97 (0.84-1.12) in case-control studies and 0.94 
(0.79-1.12) in cohort studies, respectively. In cohort studies, we found that 
there was a modest association in studies with samples from Europe, but not in 
studies with samples from North America, Asia, and Oceania. In addition, 
metformin showed a slightly protective effect compared with sulfonylurea, but 
not insulin and other comparators. Meta-regression analyses found that obesity 
and prostate-specific antigen adjustment in statistical models may be the 
sources of heterogeneity. However, there were no significant differences in 
subgroups stratified by time-related biases, analytical approaches, types of 
risk estimates, study quality, publication year, and whether adjusted for 
smoking, alcohol abuse, hemoglobin A1c, diabetes duration, and other confounding 
factors. Our study showed that metformin therapy was not associated with the 
risk of prostate cancer in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. However, 
exploratory analyses suggest that metformin use may be protective in a certain 
subgroup of patients.

DOI: 10.1097/CEJ.0000000000000514
PMID: 30950925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
