1. Clin Pharmacol Drug Dev. 2020 Jan;9(1):107-114. doi: 10.1002/cpdd.685. Epub
2019  Apr 11.

Evaluation of the Pharmacokinetics of Metformin Following Coadministration With 
Doravirine in Healthy Volunteers.

Sanchez RI(1), Yee KL(1), Fan L(1), Cislak D(1), Martell M(2), Jordan HR(2), 
Iwamoto M(1), Khalilieh S(1).

Author information:
(1)Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, NJ, USA.
(2)Pharma Medica Research Inc., Mississauga, ON, Canada.

Doravirine is a novel nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the 
treatment of human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) infection. In vitro and 
clinical data suggest that doravirine is unlikely to cause significant drug-drug 
interactions via major drug-metabolizing enzymes or transporters. As a common 
HIV-1 infection comorbidity, type 2 diabetes mellitus is often treated with 
metformin. Perturbations of metformin absorption or elimination may affect its 
safety and efficacy profile; therefore, understanding potential drug-drug 
interactions between doravirine and metformin is important. An open-label, 
fixed-sequence, 2-period trial in healthy adults was conducted. Single-dose 
metformin 1000 mg was administered in period 1; in period 2, doravirine 100 mg 
was administered once daily on days 1 to 7, and single-dose metformin 1000 mg 
was administered on day 5. Plasma pharmacokinetics for metformin alone and 
coadministered with doravirine were assessed. Fourteen participants enrolled and 
completed the trial. Least-squares geometric mean ratios and 90% confidence 
intervals of metformin AUC0-∞ , and Cmax following coadministration of metformin 
and doravirine compared with metformin alone were 0.94 (0.88-1.00) and 0.94 
(0.86-1.03), respectively; metformin Tmax and half-life were also minimally 
impacted. These data indicate that doravirine did not have a clinically relevant 
effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin. Metformin alone and coadministered 
with doravirine was generally well tolerated. These data support 
coadministration of doravirine 100 mg and metformin 1000 mg without dose 
adjustment.

© 2019, The American College of Clinical Pharmacology.

DOI: 10.1002/cpdd.685
PMID: 30973682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
