1. J Liposome Res. 2020 Jun;30(2):150-162. doi: 10.1080/08982104.2019.1610434.
Epub  2019 May 16.

Design, optimization, characterization, and in vivo evaluation of sterosomes as 
a carrier of metformin for treatment of lung cancer.

Osama H(1), Sayed OM(2), Hussein RRS(1), Abdelrahim M(1), A Elberry A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Beni-Suef University, 
Beni-Suef, Egypt.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Beni-Suef University, 
Beni-Suef, Egypt.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Beni-Suef 
University, Beni-Suef, Egypt.

The present study aimed to formulate and evaluate metformin sterosomes. 
Sterosomes were prepared by incorporating stearylamine and cholesterol in 
different ratios. Sterosomes were characterized using size, zeta potential, 
entrapment efficiency (EE%) and in vitro release. Aerosol generated by 
nebulization was evaluated by a cooled Andersen cascade impactor (ACI) at 
15 L/min. In vitro cytotoxicity of free and metformin-containing sterosomes was 
tested against human cancer cell lines. A comparative pharmacokinetic study 
between sterosomal formulation and free drug solution (750 mg) was performed. 
Spirometry was performed before and at time intervals after inhalation. The mean 
hydrodynamic diameter of the formulated vesicles was in the range of 
288.7-578 nm. The EE% varied from 71 ± 1.4% to 89 ± 5.2%, with an optimum EE% of 
89 ± 5.2at a lipid ratio of 2/1 stearylamine/cholesterol. Metformin sterosomes 
displayed an inhibitory effect on A549 lung cancer cell lines which 
significantly (p < 0.05) increased depending on dose and prolonged exposure 
time. Spirometric data were minimally changed before and after inhalation 
without a statistically significant difference in the forced expiratory volume 
in one second (FEV1), forced vital capacity (FVC) or FEV1/FVC ratio (p > 0.05). 
Metformin-loaded sterosomes resulted in a significant increase in biological 
half-life (t1/2) with a mean value of 7.31 ± 1.04 h compared to 3.99 ± 0.17 h of 
the solution form. However, the peak plasma concentration of metformin 
sterosomes was lower than that achieved by metformin-free solution aerosol, and 
the difference was statistically significant (p < 0.05).The eligibility of 
sterosomes for aerosol delivery by nebulization would provide a novel strategy 
for delivery of metformin by inhalation as a potentially effective inhalation 
treatment of lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1080/08982104.2019.1610434
PMID: 31039656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
