1. Folia Morphol (Warsz). 2020;79(1):113-119. doi: 10.5603/FM.a2019.0052. Epub
2019  May 7.

Ameliorative effect of Myristica fragrans (nutmeg) extract on oxidative status 
and histology of pancreas in alloxan induced diabetic rats.

Pashapoor A(1), Mashhadyrafie S(2), Mortazavi P(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Faculty of Specialized Veterinary Sciences, 
Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran, Islamic 
Republic Of.
(2)Department of Clinical Sciences, Faculty of Specialized Veterinary Sciences, 
Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran, Islamic 
Republic Of. Sr1vet@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Specialized Veterinary Sciences, Science 
and Research Branch, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran, Islamic Republic Of.

BACKGROUND: Many traditional treatments have been recommended in the alternative 
system of medicine for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. The aim of this study 
was to assess oxidative stress and histological changes in the pancreas of 
alloxan-induced diabetic rats following Myristica fragrans seed (nutmeg) extract 
treatment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-eight male Wistar rats weighing 200-250 g were 
randomly divided into six groups of 8 rats each - group I, non-diabetic rats; 
group II, diabetic rats; groups III, IV and V, diabetic rats given orally nutmeg 
extract at levels of 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg, respectively; and group VI, diabetic 
rats given orally metformin (100 mg/kg). The experiment lasted for 28 days.
RESULTS: Data showed that nutmeg extract (100 and 200 mg/kg) significantly 
decreased the blood glucose levels and increased the levels of serum insulin in 
diabetic rats. Administration of nutmeg extract to diabetic rats reduced 
oxidative stress and improved the antioxidant activities in pancreatic tissue. 
Histopathologic results of treated groups revealed marked improvement in the 
morphology of the pancreas compared with the control diabetic group. In 
addition, number of pancreatic islets and per cent of β-cells increased 
significantly in these groups in comparison with diabetic untreated group.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that nutmeg extract has potent antidiabetic 
and β-cell protection activities in alloxan induced diabetic rats, possibly via 
its antioxidant properties.

DOI: 10.5603/FM.a2019.0052
PMID: 31063201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
