1. Curr Med Chem. 2020;27(13):2077-2094. doi: 10.2174/0929867326666190517113533.

The Effects of Dietary Supplements that Overactivate the Nrf2/ARE System.

Smith RE(1).

Author information:
(1)Park University Parkville, 64152 Missouri, United States.

BACKGROUND: Inflammation is one of the most misunderstood aspects of human 
health. People have been encouraged to eat foods that have a high antioxidant 
capacity, and in vitro tests for total antioxidant capacity emerged. They were 
based on measuring the destruction of oxidized test compounds in direct 
reactions with the antioxidants in foods. Many dietary supplements arrived in 
the market. They contained purified antioxidants, such as resveratrol and EGCG 
that were and still are widely assumed by many to be quite healthy at any dose.
METHODS: The literature on inflammation and the Nrf2/ARE antioxidant system was 
searched systematically. Articles from prestigious, peer-reviewed journals were 
obtained and read. The information obtained from them was used to write this 
review article.
RESULTS: Over 150 articles and books were read. The information obtained from 
them showed that very few dietary antioxidants exert their effects by reacting 
directly with Reactive Oxygen and Nitrogen Species (RONS). Instead, most of the 
effective antioxidants activate the endogenous Nrf2/ARE antioxidant system. This 
helps prevent smoldering inflammation and the diseases that it can cause. 
However, when overactivated or activated constitutively, the Nrf2/ARE 
antioxidant system can cause some of these diseases, including many types of 
multidrug resistant cancer, autoimmune, neurodegenerative and cardiovascular 
diseases.
CONCLUSION: Even though green tea, as well as many fruits, vegetables and spices 
are quite healthy, dietary supplements that deliver much higher doses of 
antioxidants may not be. People who are diagnosed with cancer and plan to start 
chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy should probably avoid such supplements. This is 
because multidrug resistant tumors can hijack and overactivate the Nrf2/ARE 
antioxidant system.

CopyrightÂ© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0929867326666190517113533
PMID: 31099320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
