1. Semin Cell Dev Biol. 2020 Feb;98:90-97. doi: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2019.05.010.
Epub  2019 May 22.

The multifaceted effects of metformin on tumor microenvironment.

Kurelac I(1), Umesh Ganesh N(2), Iorio M(3), Porcelli AM(4), Gasparre G(5).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Mediche e Chirurgiche, Università di Bologna, Via 
Massarenti 9, 40138, Bologna, Italy. Electronic address: ivana.kurelac@unibo.it.
(2)Dipartimento di Scienze Mediche e Chirurgiche, Università di Bologna, Via 
Massarenti 9, 40138, Bologna, Italy. Electronic address: 
nikkitha.umeshganes2@unibo.it.
(3)Dipartimento di Scienze Mediche e Chirurgiche, Università di Bologna, Via 
Massarenti 9, 40138, Bologna, Italy. Electronic address: 
maria.iorio@studio.unibo.it.
(4)Dipartimento di Farmacia e Biotecnologie, Università di Bologna, Via Selmi 3, 
40126, Bologna, Italy; Centro Interdipartimentale di Ricerca Industriale Scienze 
della Vita e Tecnologie per la Salute, Università di Bologna, Via Tolara di 
Sopra 41/E, 40064, Ozzano dell'Emilia, Italy. Electronic address: 
annamaria.porcelli@unibo.it.
(5)Dipartimento di Scienze Mediche e Chirurgiche, Università di Bologna, Via 
Massarenti 9, 40138, Bologna, Italy; Centro di Ricerca Biomedica Applicata 
(CRBA), Università di Bologna, Via Massarenti 9, 40138, Bologna, Italy. 
Electronic address: giuseppe.gasparre3@unibo.it.

The efficacy of metformin in treating cancer has been extensively investigated 
since epidemiologic studies associated this anti-diabetic drug with a lower risk 
of cancer incidence. Since tumors are complex systems, in which cancer cells 
coexist and interact with several different types of non-malignant cells, it is 
not surprising that anti-cancer drugs affect not only cancer cells, but also the 
abundance and functions of cells of the tumor microenvironment. Recent years 
have seen a wide collection of reports showing how metformin, as well as other 
complex I inhibitors, may influence cancer progression by modulating the 
phenotype of non-transformed cells in a tumor. In this review, we particularly 
focus on the effect of metformin on angiogenesis, cancer-associated fibroblasts, 
tumor-associated macrophages and cancer immunosuppression.

Copyright © 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2019.05.010
PMID: 31091466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
