1. J Clin Densitom. 2020 Jan-Mar;23(1):29-36. doi: 10.1016/j.jocd.2019.04.004.
Epub  2019 Apr 21.

Osteoporosis and Osteopenia Among Patients With Type 2 Diabetes Aged ≥50: Role 
of Sex and Clinical Characteristics.

Xu H(1), Wang Z(2), Li X(1), Fan M(1), Bao C(1), Yang R(1), Song F(1), Xu W(3), 
Qi X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
(2)NHC Key Laboratory of Hormones and Development (Tianjin Medical University), 
Tianjin Key Laboratory of Metabolic Diseases, Tianjin Medical University 
Metabolic Diseases Hospital & Tianjin Institute of Endocrinology, Tianjin 
Medical University, Tianjin, China.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China; Aging Research Center (ARC), 
Department Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet and 
Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: xuweili@tmu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China. Electronic address: 
qixiuying@tmu.edu.cn.

INTRODUCTION/BACKGROUND: Although some studies have explored the association of 
adiposity and life habits (such as smoking) with osteoporosis and osteopenia 
among type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients, the association between diabetic 
clinical characteristics (especially hypoglycemic drug use) and 
osteoporosis/osteopenia remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the 
relationship of clinical characteristics with osteoporosis and osteopenia among 
T2DM patients by sex.
METHODS: A total of 1222 T2DM patients aged ≥50 were included in the present 
study. Information on demographic, anthropometric and clinical characteristics 
was collected from medical records. Bone mineral density was assessed by 
dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry densitometer. Multiple adjusted logistic 
regression analyses were performed to estimate the odds ratio (OR) and 95% 
confidence interval (CI) of osteoporosis and osteopenia related to clinical 
characteristics.
RESULTS: Of all participants, the prevalence of osteoporosis and osteopenia was 
9.2% and 41.3%, respectively, and they were higher in females (14.7% and 48.5%) 
than in males (2.8% and 33%). After adjustment for potential confounders, the 
results showed that overweight (OR = 0.59; 95% CI, 0.42-0.81) and obesity 
(OR = 0.35; 95% CI, 0.24-0.50) were related to decreased odds of osteoporosis 
and osteopenia in both male and female T2DM patients, poor glycemic control 
(OR = 1.63; 95% CI, 1.08-2.47) was associated with increased odds of 
osteoporosis and osteopenia in males, and metformin treatment (OR = 0.65; 95% 
CI, 0.43-0.99) was associated with decreased odds of osteoporosis and osteopenia 
in females.
CONCLUSIONS: Better glycemic management and rational choice of antidiabetic 
medication might be promising to prevent osteoporosis in T2DM patients. Further 
longitudinal studies are warranted to explore the association between 
antidiabetic treatment and osteoporosis.

Copyright © 2019 The International Society for Clinical Densitometry. Published 
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocd.2019.04.004
PMID: 31101413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
