1. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2020 Jan;159:107726. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2019.05.005. Epub 2019 May 18.

Series: Implications of the recent CVOTs in type 2 diabetes: Impact on 
guidelines: The endocrinologist point of view.

Scheen AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Diabetes, Nutrition and Metabolic Disorders, Department of 
Medicine, CHU Liège, University of Liège, Liège, Belgium; Clinical Pharmacology 
Unit, CHU Liège, Center for Interdisciplinary Research on Medicines (CIRM), 
University of Liège, Liège, Belgium. Electronic address: 
andre.scheen@chuliege.be.

The management of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) essentially consists in 
controlling hyperglycaemia, together with other vascular risk factors, in order 
to reduce the incidence and severity of diabetic complications. Whereas glucose 
control using classical glucose-lowering agents (except perhaps metformin) 
largely fails to reduce cardiovascular disease (CVD), two new pharmacological 
classes, glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) and sodium-glucose 
cotransporter type 2 inhibitors (SGLT2is), have proven their ability to reduce 
major cardiovascular events in patients with established CVD. Furthermore, 
SGLT2is reduced the risk of hospitalisation for heart failure and the 
progression of renal disease. According to the 2018 ADA-EASD consensus report, 
the choice of a second agent to be added to metformin should now be driven by 
the presence or not of atherosclerotic CVD, heart failure or renal disease, all 
conditions that should promote the use of a SGLT2i or a GLP-1 RA with proven 
efficacy. Thus endocrinologists have to face a new paradigm in the management of 
T2DM, with a shift from a primary objective of glucose control without inducing 
hypoglycaemia and weight gain to a goal of cardiovascular and renal protection, 
largely independent of glucose control. Of note, however, the latter remains 
crucial to reduce the risk of microangiopathy.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2019.05.005
PMID: 31108136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
