1. J Diabetes Investig. 2020 Jan;11(1):96-100. doi: 10.1111/jdi.13088. Epub 2019 
Jun 21.

Comparing treatment intensification and clinical outcomes of metformin and 
dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors in treatment-naïve patients with type 2 
diabetes in Japan.

Horii T(1), Iwasawa M(2), Shimizu J(3), Atsuda K(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Practice and Science I, Research and Education Center for Clinical 
Pharmacy, Kitasato University School of Pharmacy, Sagamihara, Kanagawa, Japan.
(2)Research and Education Center for Clinical Pharmacy Division of Drug 
Information, Kitasato University School of Pharmacy, Sagamihara, Kanagawa, 
Japan.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Tokyo Saiseikai Central Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

Japan's guidelines emphasize tailored therapy, but do not guide physicians on 
the use of a specific regimen in drug-naive patients. The role of long-term 
initial therapy could be important in key elements of diabetes treatment, such 
as continuation of the initially prescribed drug. We investigated the frequency 
of occurrence to treatment intensification after the initiation of metformin or 
dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor treatment. In multivariable-adjusted Cox 
proportional hazards models, initiation of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor was 
associated with a low hazard of intensification. The findings of this survey 
showed that dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors were the preferred first-line 
treatment in Japan because of the high continuation rate of the treatment and 
hemoglobin A1c-lowering effect. This information would provide guidance in 
selecting initial hypoglycemic drugs to optimize the treatment of type 2 
diabetes mellitus patients in Japan and Asia.

© 2019 The Authors. Journal of Diabetes Investigation published by Asian 
Association for the Study of Diabetes (AASD) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jdi.13088
PMCID: PMC6944821
PMID: 31145536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
