1. J Biomol Struct Dyn. 2020 Apr;38(7):2128-2140. doi: 
10.1080/07391102.2019.1627247. Epub 2019 Jun 11.

Studies on the interaction between HSA and new halogenated metformin 
derivatives: influence of lipophilic groups in the binding ability.

Chaves OA(1)(2), Mathew B(3), Parambi DGT(4), C S de Oliveira CH(1), 
Cesarin-Sobrinho D(1), Lakshminarayanan B(3)(5), Najeeb S(3), Nafna EK(3), 
Marathakam A(6), Uddin MS(5)(7), Joy M(8), Carlos Netto-Ferreira J(1)(9).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chemistry, Department of Organic Chemistry, Universidade Federal 
Rural do Rio de Janeiro, Seropédica, Brazil.
(2)SENAI Innovation Institute for Green Chemisry, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Division of Drug Design and Medicinal Chemistry Research Lab, Department of 
Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Ahalia School of Pharmacy, Palakkad, Kerala, India.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Jouf University, Sakaka, Al Jouf, 
Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, Southeast University, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, National College of Pharmacy, 
Calicut, Kerala.
(7)Pharmakon Neuroscience Research Network, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(8)Department of Chemistry & Biomolecular Science, Clarkson University, Potsdam, 
NY, USA.
(9)Divisão de Metrologia Química, Instituto Nacional de Metrologia, Qualidade e 
Tecnologia - INMETRO, Duque de Caxias, Brazil.

In the type II diabetes mellitus, Metformin hydrochloride is recommended as a 
common FAD approved drug. Synthesis of novel metformin series has been widely 
explored, mainly due to its biological importance and to improve their 
pharmacokinetic profile. Generally, human serum albumin (HSA) is the main 
protein used to study drug viability in vitro analysis. Thus, the present study 
reports the synthesis of three new halogenated metformin derivatives (MFCl, MFBr 
and MFCF3) and its interaction toward HSA by multiple spectroscopic techniques 
(UV-Vis, circular dichroism, steady-state, time-resolved and synchronous 
fluorescence), combined to computational methods (molecular docking and quantum 
chemical calculation). The interaction between each halogenated metformin 
derivative and HSA is spontaneous (ΔG°<0), entropically driven (ΔS°>0), moderate 
(Ka and Kb ≈ 104 M-1) and occurs preferentially in the subdomain IIA (close to 
Trp-214 residue). Molecular docking results suggested hydrogen bonding, van der 
Waals and hydrophobic interactions as the main binding forces. Quantum chemical 
calculations suggested imino groups as the most intense electrostatic negative 
potentials, while the positive electrostatic potential is located at the 
hydrogen atoms on N,N-dimethyl and the phenyl systems which can help the 
hydrophobic interactions. [Formula: see text]Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

DOI: 10.1080/07391102.2019.1627247
PMID: 31184536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
