1. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2020 Jan 20;75(2):278-285. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glz153.

The Effects of Metformin on Age-Related Changes in the Liver Sinusoidal 
Endothelial Cell.

Hunt NJ(1)(2)(3)(4), Lockwood GP(1)(2)(4), Kang SWS(1)(2)(4), Pulpitel T(4), 
Clark X(4), Mao H(5), McCourt PAG(4)(5), Cooney GJ(4), Wali JA(2)(4)(6), Le 
Couteur FH(1), Le Couteur DG(1)(2)(3)(4), Cogger VC(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)ANZAC Research Institute, Biogerontology Laboratory, Concord Repatriation 
General Hospital, New South Wales, Australia.
(2)Aging and Alzheimer's Institute and Centre for Education and Research on 
Ageing, Concord Repatriation General Hospital, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Concord Clinical School, Sydney Medical School, New South Wales, Australia.
(4)Charles Perkins Centre, Nutritional Ecology and Physiology Laboratory, The 
University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(5)Department of Medical Biology, University of Tromsø - The Arctic University 
of Norway.
(6)Faculty of Science, School of Life and Environmental Sciences, The University 
of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Comment in
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2020 Jan 20;75(2):266-267.

Age-related changes in the liver sinusoidal endothelium, particularly the 
reduction in fenestrations, contribute to insulin resistance in old age. 
Metformin impacts on the aging process and improves insulin resistance. 
Therefore, the effects of metformin on the liver sinusoidal endothelium were 
studied. Metformin increased fenestrations in liver sinusoidal endothelial cells 
isolated from both young and old mice. Mice administered metformin in the diet 
for 12 months had increased fenestrations and this was associated with lower 
insulin levels. The effect of metformin on fenestrations was blocked by 
inhibitors of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), endothelial nitric oxide 
synthase, and myosin light chain kinase phosphorylation. Metformin led to 
increased transgelin expression and structural changes in the actin cytoskeleton 
but had no effect on lactate production. Metformin also generated 
fenestration-like structures in SK-Hep1 cells, a liver endothelial cell line, 
and this was associated with increased ATP, cGMP, and mitochondrial activity. In 
conclusion, metformin ameliorates age-related changes in the liver sinusoidal 
endothelial cell via AMPK and endothelial nitric oxide pathways, which might 
promote insulin sensitivity in the liver, particularly in old age.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glz153
PMID: 31198956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
