1. J Cell Physiol. 2020 Feb;235(2):1339-1348. doi: 10.1002/jcp.29051. Epub 2019
Jun  29.

Treatment with metformin and sorafenib alleviates endometrial hyperplasia in 
polycystic ovary syndrome by promoting apoptosis via synergically regulating 
autophagy.

Wang QQ(1), Guo XC(1), Li L(1), Gao ZH(1), Ji M(2).

Author information:
(1)Gynecologic Oncology Department, Xinxiang City Central Hospital in Henan 
Province, Xinxiang, Henan, China.
(2)Gynecology Department, Zhengzhou University First Affiliated Hospital, 
Zhengzhou, Henan, China.

This study aimed to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying the roles of 
metformin (MET) and Sorafenib (SOR) in the treatment of endometrial hyperplasia 
(EH) in polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Effects of MET and SOR on the area of 
endometrium and myometrium were detected. Western blot analysis and 
immunohistochemistry assays were carried out to detect the levels of mammalian 
target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), mTORC2, LC3-II, P62, and Caspase-3 in 
rats and cultured cells. Furthermore, cell counting kit-8 assay and flow 
cytometry analysis was carried out to determine the apoptotic profiles of 
treated cells. MET and SOR could apparently decrease the areas of endometrium 
and myometrium in PCOS. MET notably enhanced the expression of LC3-II and 
Caspase-3 in PCOS while substantially reducing the level of mTORC1 and P62. 
Similarly, SOR also enhanced the expression of LC3-II and Caspase-3 in PCOS 
while substantially reducing the level of mTORC2 and P62. Treatment with MET and 
SOR significantly inhibited the proliferation of HCC-94 and HEC-1-A cells while 
promoting their apoptosis by upregulating the expression of Caspase-3. In cells 
treated with MET, the expression of mTORC1 and LC3-II was upregulated while the 
expression of P62 was downregulated. Similarly, in cells treated with SOR, the 
expression of mTORC2 and LC3-II was also upregulated while the expression of P62 
was also downregulated. Furthermore, MET showed no effect on mTORC2 expression, 
while SOR showed no effect on mTORC1 expression. In this study, we suggested 
that MET and SOR alleviated the risk of EH in PCOS via the 
mTORC1/autophagy/apoptosis axis and mTORC2/autophagy/apoptosis axis, 
respectively.

Â© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.29051
PMID: 31256441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
