1. Int J Cancer. 2020 Apr 1;146(7):1780-1790. doi: 10.1002/ijc.32563. Epub 2019
Jul  23.

The gut microbiota at the intersection of bile acids and intestinal 
carcinogenesis: An old story, yet mesmerizing.

Liu T(1), Song X(1), Khan S(1), Li Y(2), Guo Z(1), Li C(1), Wang S(1), Dong 
W(1), Liu W(1), Wang B(1), Cao H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, General Hospital, Tianjin 
Medical University, Tianjin, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, General Hospital, Tianjin Medical University, 
Tianjin, China.

The prevalence of colorectal cancer (CRC) has markedly increased worldwide in 
the last decade. Alterations of bile acid metabolism and gut microbiota have 
been reported to play vital roles in intestinal carcinogenesis. About trillions 
of bacteria have inhabited in the human gut and maintained the balance of host 
metabolism. Bile acids are one of numerous metabolites that are synthesized in 
the liver and further metabolized by the gut microbiota, and are essential in 
maintaining the normal gut microbiota and lipid digestion. Multiple receptors 
such as FXR, GPBAR1, PXR, CAR and VDR act as sensors of bile acids have been 
reported. In this review, we mainly discussed interplay between bile acid 
metabolism and gut microbiota in intestinal carcinogenesis. We then summarized 
the critical role of bile acids receptors involving in CRC, and also addressed 
the rationale of multiple interventions for CRC management by regulating bile 
acids-microbiota axis such as probiotics, metformin, ursodeoxycholic acid and 
fecal microbiota transplantation. Thus, by targeting the bile acids-microbiota 
axis may provide novel therapeutic modalities in CRC prevention and treatment.

Â© 2019 UICC.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.32563
PMID: 31291465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
