1. Cell Biol Int. 2020 Jan;44(1):70-79. doi: 10.1002/cbin.11202. Epub 2019 Jul
23.

Metformin facilitates the proliferation, migration, and osteogenic 
differentiation of periodontal ligament stem cells in vitro.

Zhang R(1)(2), Liang Q(1), Kang W(1), Ge S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, School and Hospital of Stomatology, Shandong 
University & Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Oral Tissue Regeneration & 
Shandong Engineering Laboratory for Dental Materials and Oral Tissue 
Regeneration, No. 44-1 Wenhua Road West, Jinan, 250012, China.
(2)Department of Endodontics, Hospital of stomatology, Zunyi medical University, 
No. 149 Dalian Road, Zunyi, 563000, China.

Periodontitis is one of the main causes of tooth loss and has been confirmed as 
the sixth complication of diabetes. Metformin promotes the osteogenic 
differentiation of stem cells. Periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs) are the 
best candidate stem cells for periodontal tissue regeneration. Herein, we aimed 
to identify the effects of metformin on the proliferation, migration, and 
osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs in vitro. PDLSCs were isolated by limiting 
dilution, and their characteristics were assessed by colony formation assay and 
flow cytometry. Cell counting and migration assays were used to investigate the 
effects of metformin on proliferation and migration. The osteogenic 
differentiation ability of PDLSCs was detected by alkaline phosphatase (ALP) 
activity and Alizarin Red S staining. Gene and protein levels of 
osteogenesis-related markers were determined by quantitative real-time 
polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and western blot analysis, respectively. 
Metformin treatment at 10 μM did not affect PDLSC proliferation, while at 50 and 
100 μM, metformin time-dependently enhanced PDLSC proliferation and 
significantly increased cell numbers after 5 and 7 days of stimulation (P < 
 0.05). In addition, 50 μM metformin exhibited a maximal effect on migration, 
ALP activity, and mineral deposition (P <  0.05). Furthermore, 50 μM metformin 
significantly upregulated the gene expression levels of ALP, BSP, OPN, OCN, and 
Runx2 and the protein expression of ALP and Runx2 (P <  0.05). In summary, our 
study confirms that metformin facilitates the proliferation, migration, and 
osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs in vitro and could be used as a new 
strategy for periodontal tissue regeneration.

© 2019 International Federation for Cell Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/cbin.11202
PMID: 31293042
