1. J Cell Physiol. 2020 Mar;235(3):2102-2112. doi: 10.1002/jcp.29112. Epub 2019
Jul  23.

Administration of metformin alleviates atherosclerosis by promoting H2S 
production via regulating CSE expression.

Ma X(1)(2), Jiang Z(1), Wang Z(1), Zhang Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiovascular Disease and Key Lab for Arteriosclerology of 
Hunan, University of South China, Hengyang, Hunan, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Affiliated Nanhua Hospital, University of South 
China, Hengyang, Hunan, China.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Beijing Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Beijing, China.

The therapeutic effect of metformin (Met) on atherosclerosis was studied here. 
Effects of methionine and Met on the induction of inflammatory response and H2 S 
expression in peritoneal macrophages were evaluated. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent 
assay, immunohistochemistry assay, western blot, and quantitative reverse 
transcription polymerase chain reaction were conducted to observe the levels of 
cystathionine γ-lyase (CSE), DNA methyltransferases 1 (DNMT1), DNMT3a, DNMT3b, 
tumor necrosis factor (TNF- α), interleukin 1b (IL-1β), and hydrogen sulfide (H 
2 S). Luciferase and bisulfite sequencing assays were also utilized to evaluate 
the CSE promoter activity as well as the methylation status of CSE in 
transfected cells. Methionine significantly elevated Hcy, TNF-a, H 2 S, and 
IL-1β expression while decreasing the level of CSE in C57BL/6 mice. In contrary, 
co-treatment with Methionine and Met reduced the detrimental effect of 
Methionine. Homocysteine (Hcy) decreased H 2 S expression while promoting the 
synthesis of IL-1β and TNF-α in THP-1 and raw264.7 cells. Treatment of THP-1 and 
raw264.7 cells with methionine and Met reduced the activity of methionine in 
dose dependently. Moreover, Hcy increased the expression of DNMT and elevated 
the level of methylation in the CSE promoter, whereas the co-treatment with 
methionine and Met attenuated the effects of Hcy. Methionine significantly 
decreased plasma level of CSE while increasing the severity of inflammatory 
responses and plasma level of Hcy, which in turn suppressed H 2 S synthesis and 
enhanced DNA hypermethylation of CSE promoter to promote the pathogenesis of 
atherosclerosis. In contrary, co-treatment with methionine and Met reduced the 
detrimental effect of methionine.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.29112
PMID: 31338841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
