1. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2020 Jan;22(1):16-29. doi: 10.1111/dom.13854. Epub 2019
Aug  30.

Effects of sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors on the cardiovascular and 
renal complications of type 2 diabetes.

Chilton RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San 
Antonio, Texas.

Sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT-2is) have been shown to mitigate 
the risks of cardiovascular (CV) and renal complications in patients with type 2 
diabetes (T2D) and CV risk factors or CV disease (CVD). In CV outcomes trials 
(CVOTs) of patients with T2D and established CVD or multiple CV risk factors, 
empagliflozin and canagliflozin were associated with significant reductions in 
the risks of major adverse CV events (MACE), hospitalization for heart failure 
(HF) and kidney disease progression. In the DECLARE-TIMI 58 study, in which the 
majority of patients did not have established CVD, dapagliflozin was associated 
with significant reductions in the composite end point of CV death or 
hospitalization for HF and was noninferior to placebo with regard to MACE; 
although patients had relatively good renal function, dapagliflozin also showed 
renal benefits similar to those seen with empagliflozin and canagliflozin. This 
article reviews the increased risk of CVD and renal disease in patients with T2D 
and discusses the potential mechanisms of the cardioprotective and 
renoprotective effects of SGLT-2i therapy. The observed improvements in CV and 
renal outcomes with SGLT-2is in CVOTs suggest a class effect in this patient 
population and have influenced treatment guidelines for the way add-on therapy 
to metformin is initiated in patients with T2D and high CV risk. The overall 
cardioprotective and renoprotective effects of SGLT-2is in patients with T2D and 
high CV risk are most likely attributable to multiple mechanisms, including 
cardiac, haemodynamic, metabolic, anti-inflammatory and renal effects.

Â© 2019 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/dom.13854
PMID: 31407866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
