1. Int J Phytoremediation. 2020;22(2):148-156. doi:
10.1080/15226514.2019.1652561.  Epub 2019 Aug 19.

Adsorptive potential of Zea mays tassel activated carbon towards the removal of 
metformin hydrochloride from pharmaceutical effluent.

Kalumpha M(1)(2), Guyo U(1), Zinyama NP(1), Vakira FM(2), Nyamunda BC(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Technology, Midlands State University, Senga, 
Zimbabwe.
(2)Plus Five Pharmaceutical Pvt Ltd, Bulawayo, Zimbabwe.
(3)Department of Chemical and Processing Engineering, Manicaland State 
University of Applied Sciences, Mutare, Zimbabwe.

In the present study, Zea mays tassel which is a zero-value agricultural waste 
was used to produce a low-cost activated carbon using phosphoric acid as the 
activating agent. The prepared Z. mays tassel activated carbon (ZMTAC) was 
characterized by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and X-ray 
diffraction (XRD). The adsorbent was applied for adsorption of an emerging 
contaminant, metformin hydrochloride (MH) from pharmaceutical effluent. The 
effects of solution pH, contact time, adsorbent dosage, and initial MH 
concentration and their interactions were investigated using a response surface 
methodology following a central composite experimental design (CCD). The optimum 
experimental conditions were as follows: pH 9.5, contact time 67.50 min, dosage 
0.5750 g, and MH concentration 152.50 mg/L. The isotherm data followed Langmuir 
isotherm model (R2 = 0.979; sum of square deviation, SSD = 0.321). The 
saturation adsorption capacity of ZMTAC was 44.84 mg/g at 20 °C. MH adsorption 
process followed pseudo-second-order kinetics (higher R2 and smaller SSD 
values). The thermodynamic properties obtained showed that the adsorption 
process was feasible, endothermic and spontaneous. Consequently, the study 
demonstrated that Z. mays tassel is a potential precursor for preparation of 
adsorbents for the removal of the MH from pharmaceutical effluent.

DOI: 10.1080/15226514.2019.1652561
PMID: 31423823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
