1. Drug Chem Toxicol. 2022 Jan;45(1):52-60. doi: 10.1080/01480545.2019.1658769. 
Epub 2019 Sep 2.

Metformin ameliorates acetaminophen-induced sub-acute toxicity via antioxidant 
property.

Tripathi SS(1), Singh S(1), Garg G(1), Kumar R(1), Verma AK(1), Singh AK(1), 
Bissoyi A(2), Rizvi SI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Allahabad, Allahabad, India.
(2)Institute of Biochemistry, Food Science and Nutrition, The Hebrew University 
of Jerusalem, Rehovot, Israel.

Acetaminophen or N-acetyl-p-amino-phenol (APAP) is a drug which is available 
over-the-counter for fever and pain. Its overdosing causes oxidative stress and 
subsequent acute liver damage. In the present study, we scrutinized the 
protective effect of metformin co-treatment in APAP induced blood and liver 
sub-acute toxicity. This is a pre-clinical study in which male Wistar Rats (BW: 
300 ± 20 g) were orally co-treated with APAP (1 g/kg/day) and metformin 
(300 mg/kg/day) for 28-days. Pro- and anti-oxidant markers viz reactive oxygen 
species, protein carbonyl, malondialdehyde (MDA), the ferric reducing ability of 
plasma (FRAP), plasma membrane redox system(PMRS) and reduced glutathione (GSH) 
were evaluated in blood. Additionally, in liver tissue, catalase (CAT), 
superoxide dismutase (SOD), MDA and GST level were also evaluated. Histological 
study and estimation of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST) level in serum were performed. APAP induces pro-oxidant 
markers as well as reduces anti-oxidant markers in blood and liver. Hepatic 
tissues degeneration and vacuolization of hepatocytes were evident after APAP 
treatment. Metformin treatment reduces pro-oxidant markers as well as increases 
anti-oxidant markers in both tissues. It also improves liver tissue architecture 
after treatment. The outcome of this study suggests that metformin has 
protective capability against APAP-induced blood and liver toxicity. Thus, 
metformin co-treatment with APAP attenuates oxidative stress and its 
consequences.

DOI: 10.1080/01480545.2019.1658769
PMID: 31474151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
