1. Nanomedicine. 2020 Feb;24:102088. doi: 10.1016/j.nano.2019.102088. Epub 2019
Aug  31.

Recuperative effect of metformin loaded polydopamine nanoformulation promoting 
EZH2 mediated proteasomal degradation of phospho-α-synuclein in Parkinson's 
disease model.

Sardoiwala MN(1), Srivastava AK(1), Kaundal B(1), Karmakar S(2), Choudhury 
SR(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Nano Science and Technology, Habitat Centre, Mohali, Punjab, 
India.
(2)Institute of Nano Science and Technology, Habitat Centre, Mohali, Punjab, 
India. Electronic address: surajit@inst.ac.in.
(3)Institute of Nano Science and Technology, Habitat Centre, Mohali, Punjab, 
India. Electronic address: subhasreerc@inst.ac.in.

Posttranslational modification and agglomeration of α-synuclein (α-Syn), 
mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress and loss of dopaminergic neurons are 
hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD). This paper evaluates neuroprotection 
efficacy of nature inspired biocompatible polydopamine nanocarrier for metformin 
delivery (Met encapsulated PDANPs) by crossing blood brain barrier in in vitro, 
3D and in vivo experimental PD models. The neuroprotective potential was 
arbitrated by downregulation of phospho-serine 129 (pSer129) α-Syn, with 
reduction in oxidative stress, prevention of apoptosis and anti-inflammatory 
activities. The neuroprotective mechanism proved novel interaction of epigenetic 
regulator EZH2 mediated ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of aggregated 
pSer129 α-Syn. In summary, this study divulges the neuroprotective role of Met 
loaded PDANPs by reversing the neurochemical deficits by confirming an 
epigenetic mediated nanotherapeutic approach for the PD prevention.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nano.2019.102088
PMID: 31476446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
