1. Nutr Cancer. 2020;72(5):835-848. doi: 10.1080/01635581.2019.1655073. Epub 2019
 Sep 2.

Co-Treatment with Sulforaphane and Nano-Metformin Molecules Accelerates 
Apoptosis in HER2+ Breast Cancer Cells by Inhibiting Key Molecules.

Keshandehghan A(1), Nikkhah S(2), Tahermansouri H(2), Heidari-Keshel S(3), 
Gardaneh M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine, Division of Medical 
Biotechnology, National Institute of Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, 
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Ayatollah Amoli Branch, Islamic Azad University, 
Amol, Iran.
(3)Department of Tissue Engineering and Applied Cell Sciences, School of 
Advanced Technologies in Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

Breast cancer cell lines MCF-10, MCF-7 and BT-474 expressing various levels of 
HER2 were examined for their response to treatment with sulforaphane (SLFN), 
metformin (MTFN), Nano-MTFN or combinations. Direct correlation was found 
between SLFN effect on cell death and HER2 levels. Bioinformatic studies 
suggested the possibility of additive co-effects on cell fate by SLFN-MTFN 
co-treatment. This co-treatment specially with SLFN + Nano-MTFN significantly 
affected the survival of the cells and killed more BT-474 cells than the other 
two. Cell sensitivity to SLFN-MTFN combination correlated with HER2 expression 
levels. RT-PCR showed that parallel with cell death, expression of BCL-2, SRC, 
WNT1, β-catenin and CD44 are diminished, whereas BAX levels are elevated 
significantly. Cell co-staining indicated that apoptosis percent correlates with 
cell death following different treatments. We also found that cell death induced 
by SLFN-MTFN co-treatment is in direct correlation with HER2 levels and 
increased cell death correlates directly with BAX levels but inversely with 
levels of cancer stem cell (CSC) signaling genes and CD44. In conclusion, our 
data indicate that SLFN and MTFN can reduce cancer cell viability via both 
collaborative and differential effects and suggest that MTFN increases SLFN 
effectiveness by targeting common molecules/pathways downstream of HER2 and key 
for CSC signaling.

DOI: 10.1080/01635581.2019.1655073
PMID: 31474154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
