1. J Affect Disord. 2020 Jan 1;260:302-313. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.09.013. Epub 
2019 Sep 3.

Metformin ameliorates stress-induced depression-like behaviors via enhancing the 
expression of BDNF by activating AMPK/CREB-mediated histone acetylation.

Fang W(1), Zhang J(2), Hong L(3), Huang W(3), Dai X(1), Ye Q(1), Chen X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Geriatrics, Fujian Institute of Geriatrics, 
Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, 29 Xinquan Road, Fuzhou, Fujian 
350001, China; Fujian Key Laboratory of Molecular Neurology, Fujian Medical 
University, 88 Jiaotong Road, Fuzhou, Fujian 350001, China.
(2)Department of Neurology and Geriatrics, Fujian Institute of Geriatrics, 
Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, 29 Xinquan Road, Fuzhou, Fujian 
350001, China; Fujian Key Laboratory of Molecular Neurology, Fujian Medical 
University, 88 Jiaotong Road, Fuzhou, Fujian 350001, China. Electronic address: 
drzj@163.com.
(3)Department of Neurology and Geriatrics, Fujian Institute of Geriatrics, 
Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, 29 Xinquan Road, Fuzhou, Fujian 
350001, China.
(4)Department of Neurology and Geriatrics, Fujian Institute of Geriatrics, 
Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, 29 Xinquan Road, Fuzhou, Fujian 
350001, China; Fujian Key Laboratory of Molecular Neurology, Fujian Medical 
University, 88 Jiaotong Road, Fuzhou, Fujian 350001, China. Electronic address: 
chenxc998@fjmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Metformin, a first-line antiglycemic drug, has been reported to have 
anti-depressant effects in patients with type 2 diabetes; however, its exact 
role and underlying mechanism still need to be investigated.
METHOD: C57BL/6J mice were subjected to the Chronic social defeat stress (SDS) 
and drug administration (Control + Vehicle, SDS + Vehicle, SDS + MET (200 mg 
kg-1), SDS + FLUOX (3 mg kg-1), SDS + MET + FLUOX). And the depression 
phenotypes were evaluated by the sucrose preference test, social interaction, 
tail suspension test and forced swimming test. The potential mechanisms 
underlying the effects of metformin on depression was discussed by using 
Chromatin immunoprecipitation, Quantitative real-time PCR mRNA expression 
analysis and Western blot in vivo and in primary cultured hippocampal neurons.
RESULT: The metformin treatment counteracted the development of depression-like 
behaviors in mice suffering SDS when administered alone and enhanced the 
anti-depressant effect of fluoxetine when combined with fluoxetine. Further RNA 
sequencing analysis revealed that metformin treatment prevented the 
transcriptional changes in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of the animals 
and Golgi staining indicated favorable morphological changes in the neurite 
plasticity of CA1 pyramidal neurons, which approximated to those found in 
unstressed mice. At a molecular level, metformin significantly upregulated the 
expression of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) by increasing the 
histone acetylation along with the BDNF promoter, which was attributed to the 
activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and cAMP-response element 
binding protein (CREB).
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that metformin can produce antidepressant 
effects, which provides empirical insights into the clinical value of metformin 
in the prevention and therapy of depression.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.09.013
PMID: 31521867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
