1. Int J Cancer. 2020 May 1;146(9):2576-2587. doi: 10.1002/ijc.32690. Epub 2019
Oct  31.

Knockout model reveals the role of Nischarin in mammary gland development, 
breast tumorigenesis and response to metformin treatment.

Dong S(1), Ruiz-Calderon B(2), Rathinam R(1), Eastlack S(1), Maziveyi M(1), 
Alahari SK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Stanley S. Scott Cancer 
Center, New Orleans, LA.
(2)Department of Pathology, LSUHSC School of Medicine, New Orleans, LA.

Previously, our lab discovered the protein Nischarin and uncovered its role in 
regulating cell migration and invasion via its interactions with several 
proteins. We subsequently described a role for Nischarin in breast cancer, in 
which it is frequently underexpressed. To characterize Nischarin's role in 
breast tumorigenesis and mammary gland development more completely, we deleted a 
critical region of the Nisch gene (exons 7-10) from the mouse genome and 
observed the effects. Mammary glands in mutant animals showed delayed terminal 
end bud formation but did not develop breast tumors spontaneously. Therefore, we 
interbred the animals with transgenic mice expressing the mouse mammary tumor 
virus-polyoma middle T-antigen (MMTV-PyMT) oncogene. The MMTV-PyMT mammary 
glands lacking Nischarin showed increased hyperplasia compared to wild-type 
animal tissues. Furthermore, we observed significantly increased tumor growth 
and metastasis in Nischarin mutant animals. Surprisingly, Nischarin deletion 
decreased activity of AMPK and subsequently its downstream effectors. Given this 
finding, we treated these animals with metformin, which enhances AMPK activity. 
Here, we show for the first time, metformin activates AMPK signaling and 
inhibits tumor growth of Nischarin lacking PyMT tumors suggesting a potential 
use for metformin as a cancer therapeutic, particularly in the case of 
Nischarin-deficient breast cancers.

Â© 2019 UICC.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.32690
PMID: 31525254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
