1. Appl Physiol Nutr Metab. 2020 Apr;45(4):401-410. doi: 10.1139/apnm-2019-0331. 
Epub 2019 Sep 20.

Ethanolic extract and ethyl acetate fraction of Coutoubea spicata attenuate 
hyperglycemia, oxidative stress, and muscle damage in alloxan-induced diabetic 
rats subjected to resistance exercise training program.

Santos JLD(1), Araújo SS(1), Silva AMOE(2), Lima CA(1), Vieira Souza LM(1), 
Costa RA(1), Aidar Martins FJ(3), Voltarelli FA(4), Estevam CDS(1), Marçal 
AC(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Natural Product Chemistry and Biochemistry, Department of 
Physiology, Federal University of Sergipe, São Cristóvão, SE 49100-000, Brazil.
(2)Department of Nutrition, Federal University of Sergipe, São Cristóvão, SE 
49100-000, Brazil.
(3)Department Physical Education, Federal University of Sergipe, São Cristóvão, 
SE 49100-000, Brazil.
(4)Graduate Program of Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Federal University 
of Mato Grosso, Cuiabá, MT 78060-900, Brazil.
(5)Department of Morphology, Federal University of Sergipe, São Cristóvão, SE 
49100-000, Brazil.

Gentianaceae family (such as Coutoubea spicata) contains iridoids and flavonoids 
with antidiabetic properties. However, there is no information available about 
the antidiabetic effects of C. spicata when combined with resistance exercise 
training (RET). This study evaluated the effects of the ethanolic extract (EE) 
and ethyl acetate fraction (EAF) of C. spicata on biochemical markers, muscle 
damage, and oxidative stress in diabetic rats submitted to RET. Alloxan-induced 
diabetic rats were distributed into 4 groups (each group, n = 8) treated with 
distilled water (TD), EE, EAF, or metformin and submitted to RET. Two groups 
without the disease (each group, n = 8) (sedentary control and trained control), 
as well as a sedentary diabetic group (n = 8) were included. Body weight and 
glycemia were evaluated weekly. After 30 days, lipid/lipoprotein profile, 
aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, muscle damage ((creatine 
kinase (CK) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)), and oxidative stress 
(malondialdehyde (MDA), sulfhydryl groups (SH), and ferric reducing antioxidant 
power) were evaluated. MDA and SH for pancreas, liver, heart, and muscle were 
evaluated. C. spicata extract and fraction combined with RET recovered body 
weight and reduced glycemia, muscle damage (CK: 36.83% and 21.45%; LDH: 49.83% 
and 68.55%), and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (70.63%; 59.18%) and 
improved redox status (MDA: 50.33%, 39.74%; and SH: 53.97%; 76.41%), 
respectively, when compared with the TD group. C. spicata plus RET promoted 
anti-hyperglycemic, lipid-reducing, and antioxidant effects in diabetic rats. 
Novelty C. spicata presents anti-hyperglycemic and lipid-lowering effects 
potentiated by RET. C. spicata reduces muscle injury and increases antioxidant 
defense.

DOI: 10.1139/apnm-2019-0331
PMID: 31539486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
