1. Eur J Mass Spectrom (Chichester). 2020 Apr;26(2):117-130. doi: 
10.1177/1469066719879297. Epub 2019 Oct 1.

Development of simultaneous determination of empagliflozin and metformin in 
human plasma using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and application to 
pharmacokinetics.

Wattamwar T(1)(2), Mungantiwar A(1), Halde S(1), Pandita N(2).

Author information:
(1)Bioequivalence Department, Macleods Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Mumbai, India.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Sunandan Divatia School of Science, NMIMS, Mumbai, 
India.

A rapid and sensitive liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry method was 
developed, optimized, and validated for simultaneous quantification of 
empagliflozin and metformin in human plasma using empagliflozin D4and metformin 
D6 as an internal standard. Analytes and internal standard were extracted from 
plasma by optimized solid-phase extraction technique using Strata X polymeric 
reverse phase (30 mg-1cc) solid-phase extraction cartridges. The prepared 
samples were chromatographed on Orosil C18 column (150 × 4.6 mm, 3 µ). 
Separation was done by pumping isocratic mobile phase consisting of methanol and 
10 mM ammonium trifluoroacetate (90:10, v/v) in positive ion mode at a flow rate 
of 0.8 mL/min. The API 3200 liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry system 
having turbo ion spray as an ion source coupled with Shimadzu Prominence 
ultrafast liquid chromatography system was operated under the selected reaction 
monitoring mode. Turbo ion spray ionization was used for mass transition of m/z 
468.070/355.100 and m/z 130.072/71.200 for empagliflozin and metformin, 
respectively. A method was successfully validated for concentration range of 
10.09-5013.46 ng/mL for both the analytes and according to the United States 
Food and Drugs Administration guidelines. The linearity was found to be in the 
range of 10.09-403.46 ng/mL for empagliflozin and 25.44-5013.46 ng/mL for 
metformin. The limit of quantification was found to be 10.09 ng/mL for 
empagliflozin and 25.44 ng/mL for metformin. Intra- and inter-day/between batch 
precision determination for empagliflozin and metformin, expressed as 
coefficient of variation were within the acceptance limits and ranged below 
13.16%. A short run time of 3.3 min allows analysis of more than 400 plasma 
samples per day. The developed method was successfully applied to fasting 
pharmacokinetic study in healthy human volunteers. Results of incurred sample 
re-analysis were within the acceptance range of ±20% of original value, for 
97.2% of samples reanalyzed for empagliflozin and 100% of samples reanalyzed for 
metformin.

DOI: 10.1177/1469066719879297
PMID: 31575298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
