1. Can J Physiol Pharmacol. 2020 Jan;98(1):23-28. doi: 10.1139/cjpp-2019-0459.
Epub  2019 Oct 2.

Chronic metformin intake improves anaerobic but not aerobic capacity in healthy 
rats.

de Araujo GG(1), Learsi S(1), Bastos-Silva VJ(1), Ataide T(1), Lima-Silva AE(2).

Author information:
(1)Applied Sport Science Research Group and Experimental Nutrition Laboratory, 
Federal University of Alagoas (PPGNUT/PPGCS), Avenue Lourival Melo Mota, s/n, 
University City, Maceio 57072-900, Brazil.
(2)The Human Performance Research Group, Technological Federal University of 
Parana, Pedro Gusso Street 2601, Neoville, Parana 81310900, Brazil.

The effect of chronic metformin intake on aerobic and anaerobic capacity was 
examined in healthy rats. Twenty rats completed 10 days of metformin (MET) 
ingestion (250 mg). After this period, the animals performed four high-intensity 
bouts until exhaustion at 9%, 11%, 13%, and 15% of body mass (BM) in swimming, 
separated by 24 h, with prior metformin (250 mg) or placebo (PL). The critical 
load (CL) and anaerobic work capacity (AWC - W') were calculated and considered 
aerobic and anaerobic capacity, respectively. There was no difference in CL 
between the MET and PL groups (p > 0.05). The AWC - W' was higher in the MET 
group than in the PL group (p = 0.004). Time until exhaustion (seconds) at all 
bouts were higher (p < 0.004) in the MET group (9% of BM = 434.5 ± 267.3, 11% of 
BM = 269.6 ± 214.2, 13% of BM = 174.0 ± 40.9, 15% of BM = 146.6 ± 15.9) compared 
to the PL group (9% of BM = 96.4 ± 22.3, 11% of BM = 65.5 ± 13.4, 13% of BM = 
51.1 ± 5.5, 15% of BM = 40.8 ± 7.5). Glucose concentration was higher at 90 and 
120 min than at 0 and 30 min for the MET group (intragroup) during the oral 
glucose test tolerance; there was no difference between the MET and PL groups 
for area under curve. MET ingestion enhances AWC - W' and times to exhaustion 
but not aerobic capacity.

DOI: 10.1139/cjpp-2019-0459
PMID: 31577914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
