1. IUBMB Life. 2020 Apr;72(4):749-757. doi: 10.1002/iub.2174. Epub 2019 Oct 6.

Cardioprotective role of metformin against sodium arsenite-induced oxidative 
stress, inflammation, and apoptosis.

Wang L(1), Shi W(2), Gao X(3), SreeHarsha N(4), Zhang D(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Qingdao central hospital, Qingdao, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao, China.
(3)Department of Hepatobiliary Internal Medicine, Qingdao Hiser Medical Center, 
Qingdao, China.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Clinical Pharmacy, King 
Faisal University, Al-Ahsa, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, Qingdao Hiser Medical Center, Qingdao, China.

Arsenic is a universal component and a notable natural poison. Its exposure to 
people occurs primarily through natural, therapeutic, and occupational sources. 
This investigation intended to discover the defensive impact of metformin (100 
and 150 mg/kg body weight) against sodium arsenite (SA)-induced cardiotoxicity 
in experimental animals. The study was conducted on Sprague Dawley rats (n = 
50), which were separated into five different groups as follows: control, 
met-150, SA, SA + met-100, and SA + met-150. The results demonstrated that SA 
caused a significant increase in the level of malondialdehyde and also reduced 
activities of antioxidative enzyme. SA similarly increased inflammatory 
reactions by increasing the level of interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-α, and 
interleukin-1β. In addition, SA provoked the apoptosis by expanding the p53 and 
Bax levels, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling, and 
expression of caspase-3. SA altered the histological integrity of cardiac tissue 
and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine expression. In conclusion, metformin 
significantly reduced oxidative stress, inflammatory reaction, and apoptotic 
pathway. The present investigation showed that metformin has a cardioprotective 
impact because of its protective role against oxidation, inflammation, and 
apoptosis.

© 2019 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/iub.2174
PMID: 31587475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
