1. Endocr J. 2020 Jan 28;67(1):95-98. doi: 10.1507/endocrj.EJ19-0305. Epub 2019
Oct  10.

Startling hyperglycaemia with transient beta cell stunning in a patient with 
type 2 diabetes.

Sato Y(1), Kakizawa M(2), Aso SI(3), Takayama M(4), Yamashita K(1), Miyamoto 
T(5), Aizawa T(1).

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Centre, Aizawa Hospital, Matsumoto, 390-8510, Japan.
(2)Department of Neurology, Aizawa Hospital, Matsumoto, 390-8510, Japan.
(3)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Aizawa Hospital, Matsumoto, 390-8510, 
Japan.
(4)Clinical Laboratory Centre, Aizawa Hospital, Matsumoto, 390-8510, Japan.
(5)Miyamoto Naika Clinic, Matsumoto, 390-0848, Japan.

A 59-year-old woman unaware of having diabetes was transferred due to coma. Upon 
discovery at home, her consciousness on the Glasgow Coma Scale was E1V2M4, BP 
95/84 mmHg, body temperature 34.7°C. On arrival at ER, height was 1.63 m, weight 
97 kg, plasma glucose (PG) 1,897 mg/dL, HbA1c 13.6%, osmolality 421 mosm/kg, 
arterial pH 7.185, lactate 6.34 mmol/L, β-hydroxybutyrate 7.93 mmol/L. With 
saline and regular insulin infusion, PG was lowered to 1,440 mg/dL at 2 hours 
and then to 250 mg/dL by Day 3, and consciousness normalized by Day 5. On 
admission, serum immunoreactive insulin (IRI) was undetectable (<0.03 U/mL), 
C-peptide immunoreactivity (CPR) undetectable (<0.003 ng/mL), and anti-glutamic 
acid decarboxylase antibody negative. Following the above-described treatment, 
fasting PG was 186 mg/dL and CPR 1.94 ng/mL, respectively, on Day 14; 2-h 
post-breakfast PG 239 mg/dL and CPR 6.28 ng/mL, respectively, on Day 18. The 
patient discharged on Day 18 with 1,800 kcal diet, 32 U insulin glargine and 40 
mg gliclazide. Fifteen months later at outpatient clinic, her HbA1c was 6.9% and 
2-h post-breakfast PG 123 mg/dL and CPR 5.30 ng/dL with 750 mg metformin, 10 mg 
gliclazide and 18 U insulin glargine. Transient, but total cessation of insulin 
secretion was documented in a patient with type 2 diabetes under severe 
metabolic decompensation. Swift, sustained recovery of insulin release indicated 
that lack of insulin at the time of emergency was due to secretory failure, 
i.e., unresponsive exocytotic machinery or depletion of releasable insulin, 
rather than loss of beta cells.

DOI: 10.1507/endocrj.EJ19-0305
PMID: 31597815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
