1. Am J Med. 2020 Feb;133(2):170-177. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2019.09.002. Epub
2019  Oct 14.

Atrial Fibrillation and Heart Failure With Preserved Ejection Fraction in 
Patients With Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.

Packer M(1).

Author information:
(1)Baylor Heart and Vascular Institute, Baylor University Medical Center, 
Dallas, Tex; Imperial College, London, UK. Electronic address: 
milton.packer@baylorhealth.edu.

The most common causes of chronic liver disease in the developed 
world-nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis 
(NASH)-are the hepatic manifestations of an insulin-resistant state that is 
linked to visceral adiposity and systemic inflammation. NAFLD and NASH lead to 
an expansion of epicardial adipose tissue and the release of proinflammatory 
adipocytokines that cause microcirculatory dysfunction and fibrosis of the 
adjoining myocardium, resulting in atrial fibrillation as well as heart failure 
with a preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). Inflammatory changes in the left 
atrium lead to electroanatomical remodeling; thus, NAFLD and NASH markedly 
increase the risk of atrial fibrillation. Simultaneously, patients with NAFLD or 
NASH commonly show diastolic dysfunction or latent HFpEF. Interventions include 
1) weight loss by caloric restriction, bariatric surgery, or intensive exercise, 
and 2) drugs that ameliorate fat-mediated inflammation in both the liver and 
heart (eg, statins, metformin, sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors, 
glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists, and pioglitazone). Patients with 
NAFLD or NASH commonly have an inflammation-related atrial and ventricular 
myopathy, which may contribute to symptoms and long-term outcomes.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2019.09.002
PMID: 31622581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
