1. Diabetes Technol Ther. 2020 Feb;22(2):96-102. doi: 10.1089/dia.2019.0241. Epub
 2020 Jan 9.

Maternal and Neonatal Health Outcomes Associated with the Use of Gliclazide and 
Metformin for the Treatment of Diabetes in Pregnancy: A Record Linkage Study.

Kelty E(1), Tran DD(2), Atkinson A(3), Preen DB(1), Havard A(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Services Research, School of Population and Global Health, 
the University of Western Australia, Crawley, Australia.
(2)Centre for Big Data Research in Health, UNSW Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(3)King Edward Memorial Hospital for Women, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.

Background: Gliclazide is commonly used in the treatment of diabetes mellitus; 
however, very little is known regarding the safety of its use in pregnancy. The 
aims of this study was to examine the rate of maternal hospitalizations, 
congenital anomalies, and adverse neonatal outcomes in pregnant women treated 
with gliclazide compared with pregnant women treated with metformin. Methods: 
Women who used gliclazide during pregnancy (n = 108) between 2003 and 2012 were 
identified by linking national medication dispensing data with the New South 
Wales perinatal data collection. A comparison group of women treated with only 
metformin during pregnancy (n = 108) were selected using propensity score 
matching. Data on hospital admissions, mortality, and congenital anomalies were 
extracted to examine the health of mothers and their children across groups. 
Results: Rates of maternal hospitalizations during pregnancy were not 
significantly different between women in the two groups (incident rate ratio: 
1.10, 95% CI: 0.90-1.34, P = 0.339). There was no significant difference in 
average birth weight (3402 g compared with 3572 g, P = 0.072), incidence of 
neonatal hypoglycemia (<4.6% compared with <4.6%, P = 0.684), or congenital 
anomalies (7.4% compared with 5.6%, P = 0.582) in neonates exposed to gliclazide 
compared with metformin. Conclusions: The use of gliclazide during pregnancy was 
not associated with increased maternal hospitalization or neonatal adverse 
outcomes in comparison with the use of metformin in pregnancy; however, the 
limited number of exposed pregnancies is a key limitation.

DOI: 10.1089/dia.2019.0241
PMID: 31621408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
