1. Mil Med. 2020 Mar 2;185(3-4):486-492. doi: 10.1093/milmed/usz311.

Diabetes by Air, Land, and Sea: Effect of Deployments on HbA1c and BMI.

Folaron I(1), True MW(1), Kazanis WH(2), Wardian JL(3), Tate JM(1), Graybill 
SD(1), Clerc PG(1), Jenkins CR(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, San Antonio Military Medical Center, MCH-ZDM-E 
3551 Roger Brooke Dr. JBSA-Ft, Sam Houston, TX 78234.
(2)Defense Health Agency, 3515 S General McMullen Suite 200, San Antonio, TX 
78226.
(3)Diabetes Center of Excellence, Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center, 1100 
Wilford Hall Loop, Bldg 4554 JBSA-Lackland Air Force Base, TX 782363.

INTRODUCTION: Service members (SMs) in the United States (U.S.) Armed Forces 
have diabetes mellitus at a rate of 2-3%. Despite having a chronic medical 
condition, they have deployed to environments with limited medical support. 
Given the scarcity of data describing how they fare in these settings, we 
conducted a retrospective study analyzing the changes in glycated hemoglobin 
(HbA1c) and body mass index (BMI) before and after deployment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: SMs from the U.S. Army, Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps 
with diabetes who deployed overseas were identified through the Military Health 
System (MHS) Management Analysis and Reporting Tool and the Defense Manpower 
Data Center. Laboratory and pharmaceutical data were obtained from the MHS 
Composite Health Care System and the Pharmacy Data Transaction Service, 
respectively. Paired t-tests were conducted to calculate changes in HbA1c and 
BMI before and after deployment.
RESULTS: SMs with diabetes completed 11,325 deployments of greater than 90 days 
from 2005 to 2017. Of these, 474 (4.2%) SMs had both HbA1c and BMI measurements 
within 90 days prior to departure and within 90 days of return. Most (84.2%) 
required diabetes medications: metformin in 67.3%, sulfonylureas in 19.0%, 
dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors in 13.9%, and insulin in 5.5%. Most SMs 
deployed with an HbA1c < 7.0% (67.1%), with a mean predeployment HbA1c of 6.8%. 
Twenty percent deployed with an HbA1c between 7.0 and 7.9%, 7.2% deployed with 
an HbA1c between 8.0 and 8.9%, and 5.7% deployed with an HbA1c of 9.0% or 
higher. In the overall population and within each military service, there was no 
significant change in HbA1c before and after deployment. However, those with 
predeployment HbA1c < 7.0% experienced a rise in HbA1c from 6.2 to 6.5% 
(P < 0.001), whereas those with predeployment HbA1c values ≥7.0% experienced a 
decline from 8.0 to 7.5% (P < 0.001). Those who deployed between 91 and 135 days 
had a decline in HbA1c from 7.1 to 6.7% (P = 0.010), but no significant changes 
were demonstrated in those with longer deployment durations. BMI declined from 
29.6 to 29.3 kg/m2 (P < 0.001), with other significant changes seen among those 
in the Army, Navy, and deployment durations up to 315 days.
CONCLUSIONS: Most SMs had an HbA1c < 7.0%, suggesting that military providers 
appropriately selected well-managed SMs for deployment. HbA1c did not seem to 
deteriorate during deployment, but they also did not improve despite a reduction 
in BMI. Concerning trends included the deployment of some SMs with much higher 
HbA1c, utilization of medications with adverse safety profiles, and the lack of 
HbA1c and BMI evaluation proximal to deployment departures and returns. However, 
for SMs meeting adequate glycemic targets, we demonstrated that HbA1c remained 
stable, supporting the notion that some SMs may safely deploy with diabetes. 
Improvement in BMI may compensate for factors promoting hyperglycemia in a 
deployed setting, such as changes in diet and medication availability. Future 
research should analyze in a prospective fashion, where a more complete array of 
diabetes and readiness-related measures to comprehensively evaluate the safety 
of deploying SMs with diabetes.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Association of Military 
Surgeons of the United States 2019. This work is written by (a) US Government 
employee(s) and is in the public domain in the US.

DOI: 10.1093/milmed/usz311
PMID: 31621859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
