1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Jan 10;699:134426. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.134426.  Epub 2019 Sep 12.

Retention soil filters for the treatment of sewage treatment plant effluent and 
combined sewer overflow.

Brunsch AF(1), Zubieta Florez P(2), Langenhoff AAM(3), Ter Laak TL(4), Rijnaarts 
HHM(5).

Author information:
(1)Erftverband, Department of River Basin Management, Am Erftverband 6, 50126 
Bergheim, Germany; Wageningen University and Research, Environmental Technology, 
P.O. Box 17, 6700 AA Wageningen, the Netherlands.
(2)University Duisburg-Essen, Universitätsstrasse 2, Essen, Germany; Radboud 
University, P.O. Box 9010, Heyendaalseweg 135, 6500 GL Nijmegen, the 
Netherlands.
(3)Wageningen University and Research, Environmental Technology, P.O. Box 17, 
6700 AA Wageningen, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
alette.langenhoff@wur.nl.
(4)KWR Watercycle Research Institute, P.O. Box 1072, 3430 BB, Nieuwegein, the 
Netherlands; Department of Freshwater and Marine Ecology (FAME), Institute for 
Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics (IBED), University of Amsterdam (UvA), 
Science Park 904, Amsterdam 1098XH, Netherlands.
(5)Wageningen University and Research, Environmental Technology, P.O. Box 17, 
6700 AA Wageningen, the Netherlands.

Retention soil filters (RSFs) are vertical flow constructed wetlands. They are 
mainly used for the treatment of combined sewer overflow or stormwater, and not 
operated during dry weather conditions. However, RSFs have been successfully 
tested as continuous post treatment for sewage treatment plant effluents. In 
this paper we present a new approach, namely dual usage of the retention soil 
filter. During dry weather the RSF is used for the polishing treatment of sewage 
treatment plant effluent and during overflow events, the retention soil filter 
treats the combined sewer overflow. This study was conducted at two pilot RSFs 
that were fed with sewage treatment effluent for four years. Removal of TOC, 
DOC, nutrients and 21 organic micropollutants was determined during six months 
at different sequences of regular effluent and overflow treatment conditions. 
TOC, DOC and nutrients, appearing in high concentration in combined sewer 
overflow, were effectively removed, and metformin and caffeine micropollutants 
showed >99% removal. Residues from this combined sewer treatment that were 
sorbed on filter material or stored in pore water were washed out directly after 
treatment when STP effluent infiltration was initiated. This effect declined 
within 20 h after combined sewer overflow treatment. Dry periods of 18 h between 
combined sewer and sewage treatment plant effluent feeding counteracted the wash 
out effects. The highest removal efficiency was found in the beginning of the 
feeding time of 28 h, indicating that shorter feeding cycles enhance the overall 
efficiency of the RSF. Finally, the results show that a single RSF system can 
successfully reduce emissions of TOC, DOC, nutrients and micropollutants to 
surface waters from two different emission pathways, i.e. from regular treated 
effluents and storm related sewer overflows. In conclusion, the dual usage of 
RSF is a promising approach and ready for upscaling and implementation.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.134426
PMID: 31639549
