1. Diabetes Technol Ther. 2020 Apr;22(4):256-264. doi: 10.1089/dia.2019.0290.

The Effect of Acarbose on Glycemic Variability in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes 
Mellitus Using Premixed Insulin Compared to Metformin (AIM): An Open-Label 
Randomized Trial.

Gao F(1), Ma X(1), Peng J(1), Lu J(1), Lu W(1), Zhu W(1), Bao Y(1), Vigersky 
RA(2)(3), Jia W(1), Zhou J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Shanghai Clinical Center for 
Diabetes, Shanghai Diabetes Institute, Shanghai Key Laboratory of Diabetes 
Mellitus, Shanghai Jiao Tong University Affiliated Sixth People's Hospital, 
Shanghai, China.
(2)Diabetes Institute of the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, 
Bethesda, Maryland.
(3)Medtronic Diabetes, Northridge, California.

Background: Acarbose (ACA) can effectively reduce the postprandial blood glucose 
and has similar antidiabetic effects as metformin (MET). To our knowledge, few 
studies have compared the effect of ACA or MET on glucose fluctuations. In the 
present study, we explored the effect of ACA or MET combined with premixed 
insulin (INS) on glycemic control and glycemic variability (GV). Methods: This 
was an open-label randomized trial that was conducted in type 2 diabetic 
patients taking premixed insulin. The patients were assigned to 12 weeks of MET 
(n = 62) or ACA (n = 62) treatment combined with INS. The main outcomes were 
changes in GV and glycosylated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) compared with baseline. 
Results: Compared with baseline, several GV indices (standard deviation [SD], 
mean amplitude of glycemic excursions [MAGE]) and blood glucose control indices 
(mean glucose [MG], time in range [TIR] and HbA1c) were both significantly 
improved in INS+ACA and INS+MET after 12-week therapy. However, coefficient of 
variation (CV) was significantly reduced in INS+ACA but not in INS+MET. 
Moreover, compared with INS+MET, INS+ACA led to a more pronounced percentage 
change from baseline in CV (26.3% [1.7%-44.6%] vs. 11.9% [-7.0% to 29.9%], 
P = 0.022), MAGE (40.5% [20.1%-60.5%] vs. 25.2% [-2.1% to 43.4%], P = 0.007) and 
SD (38.6% [25.2%-57.9%] vs. 30.1% [10.8%-46.5%], P = 0.041). Conclusion: Both 
MET and ACE combined with INS effectively reduced blood glucose. Compared with 
MET, ACA combined with INS reduced GV.

DOI: 10.1089/dia.2019.0290
PMID: 31638433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
