1. Diabetes Metab Res Rev. 2020 Feb;36(2):e3223. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.3223. Epub
2019  Nov 13.

Meta-analysis on the efficacy and safety of SGLT2 inhibitors and incretin based 
agents combination therapy vs. SGLT2i alone or add-on to metformin in type 2 
diabetes.

Zhou Y(1), Geng Z(1), Wang X(1), Huang Y(1), Shen L(1), Wang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Affiliated Hospital of Medical College Qingdao 
University, Qingdao, China.

We aimed to determine whether sodium-glucose cotransporter type 2 inhibitors 
(SGLT2is) and incretin-based agents combination therapy produces more benefits 
than SGLT2is alone in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). PubMed, 
Embase, and the Cochrane Library were searched for randomized controlled trials 
(RCTs) comparing SGLT2is plus Dipeptidyl-Peptidase 4 inhibitors (SGLT2is/DPP4is) 
or glucagon like peptide-1 receptor agonists (SGLT2is/GLP-1RAs) against SGLT2is 
as monotherapy or add-on to metformin in T2DMs. A total of 13 studies with 7350 
participants were included. Combination with GLP-1RAs exhibited more HbA1c 
reduction (WMD: -0.8; 95% CI, -1.14 to -0.45%), weight loss (-1.46; 95% CI, 
-2.38 to -0.54 kg), and systolic blood pressure (SBP) reduction (-2.88; 95% CI, 
-4.52 to -1.25 mmHg) versus SGLT2is alone but increased the gastrointestinal 
disorder risk (RR: 1.68; 95% CI, 1.14-2.47). Combination with DPP4is exhibited 
an extra effect on HbA1c reduction (-0.47; 95% CI, -0.58 to -0.37%), a neutral 
effect on weight (0.19; 95% CI, -0.11 to 0.48 kg) and SBP (-0.01; 95% CI, -0.85 
to 0.63 mmHg), and ameliorated the genital infections risk (0.73; 95% CI, 
0.54-0.97) versus SGLT2is. Meta-regression indicated the hypoglycemic efficacy 
of SGLT2is/DPP4is is higher in Asians than in other ethnics, and the differences 
in BMI across ethnic groups may mediate this effect. SGLT2is and incretin-based 
agents combination therapy is efficacious and safe versus SGLT2is alone in 
T2DMs. Particularly, combination with GLP-1RAs shows additional benefits to 
glycemic, weight, and SBP control to a larger extent than DPP4is, while 
combination with DPP4is ameliorates the risk for genital infection seen with 
SGLT2is. We highlight the need for individualized treatment related to the 
selection of this novel combination therapy.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dmrr.3223
PMID: 31642583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
