1. Eur Heart J Cardiovasc Pharmacother. 2020 Jul 1;6(4):239-247. doi: 
10.1093/ehjcvp/pvz062.

Differential epigenetic factors in the prediction of cardiovascular risk in 
diabetic patients.

Napoli C(1)(2), Benincasa G(1), Schiano C(1), Salvatore M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Advanced Clinical and Surgical Sciences, University of Campania 
"Luigi Vanvitelli", Pz. Miraglia 2, Naples 80138, Italy.
(2)IRCCS SDN, via E. Gianturco 113, Naples 80143, Italy.

Hyperglycaemia can strongly alter the epigenetic signatures in many types of 
human vascular cells providing persistent perturbations of protein-protein 
interactions both in micro- and macro-domains. The establishment of these 
epigenetic changes may precede cardiovascular (CV) complications and help us to 
predict vascular lesions in diabetic patients. Importantly, these epigenetic 
marks may be transmitted across several generations (transgenerational effect) 
and increase the individual risk of disease. Aberrant DNA methylation and 
imbalance of histone modifications, mainly acetylation and methylation of H3, 
represent key determinants of vascular lesions and, thus, putative useful 
biomarkers for prevention and diagnosis of CV risk in diabetics. Moreover, a 
differential expression of some micro-RNAs (miRNAs), mainly miR-126, may be a 
useful prognostic biomarker for atherosclerosis development in asymptomatic 
subjects. Recently, also environmental-induced chemical perturbations in mRNA 
(epitranscriptome), mainly the N6-methyladenosine, have been associated with 
obesity and diabetes. Importantly, reversal of epigenetic changes by modulation 
of lifestyle and use of metformin, statins, fenofibrate, and apabetalone may 
offer useful therapeutic options to prevent or delay CV events in diabetics 
increasing the opportunity for personalized therapy. Network medicine is a 
promising molecular-bioinformatic approach to identify the signalling pathways 
underlying the pathogenesis of CV lesions in diabetic patients. Moreover, 
machine learning tools combined with tomography are advancing the individualized 
assessment of CV risk in these patients. We remark the need for combining 
epigenetics and advanced bioinformatic platforms to improve the prediction of 
vascular lesions in diabetics increasing the opportunity for CV precision 
medicine.

Â© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1093/ehjcvp/pvz062
PMCID: PMC7363021
PMID: 31665258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
