1. Redox Biol. 2020 Jan;28:101345. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2019.101345. Epub 2019
Oct  19.

Metformin protects against PM(2.5)-induced lung injury and cardiac dysfunction 
independent of AMP-activated protein kinase α2.

Gao J(1), Yuan J(1), Wang Q(2), Lei T(1), Shen X(1), Cui B(1), Zhang F(1), Ding 
W(3), Lu Z(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
100049, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Cosmetic, China National Light Industry, Beijing Technology 
and Business University, Beijing, 100048, China.
(3)College of Life Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
100049, China. Electronic address: dingwj@ucas.ac.cn.
(4)College of Life Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
100049, China. Electronic address: luzhongbing@ucas.ac.cn.

Fine particulate matter (PM2.5) airborne pollution increases the risk of 
respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. Although metformin is a well-known 
antidiabetic drug, it also confers protection against a series of diseases 
through the activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). However, whether 
metformin affects PM2.5-induced adverse health effects has not been 
investigated. In this study, we exposed wild-type (WT) and AMPKα2-/- mice to 
PM2.5 every other day via intratracheal instillation for 4 weeks. After PM2.5 
exposure, the AMPKα2-/- mice developed more severe lung injury and cardiac 
dysfunction than were developed in the WT mice; however the administration of 
metformin was effective in attenuating PM2.5-induced lung injury and cardiac 
dysfunction in both the WT and AMPKα2-/- mice. In the PM2.5-exposed mice, 
metformin treatment resulted in reduced systemic and pulmonary inflammation, 
preserved left ventricular ejection fraction, suppressed induction of pulmonary 
and myocardial fibrosis and oxidative stress, and increased levels of 
mitochondrial antioxidant enzymes. Moreover, pretreatment with metformin 
significantly attenuated PM2.5-induced cell death and oxidative stress in 
control and AMPKα2-depleted BEAS-2B and H9C2 cells, and was associated with 
preserved expression of mitochondrial antioxidant enzymes. These data support 
the notion that metformin protects against PM2.5-induced adverse health effects 
through a pathway that appears independent of AMPKα2. Our findings suggest that 
metformin may also be a novel drug for therapies that treat air pollution 
associated disease.

Copyright © 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2019.101345
PMCID: PMC6838896
PMID: 31669973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.
