1. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2020 Aug;127(2):81-91. doi: 10.1111/bcpt.13357. 
Epub 2019 Nov 24.

Vascular adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase: Enhancer, brake or 
both?

Chen H(1), Vanhoutte PM(1)(2)(3), Leung SWS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacy, The University of Hong Kong, Hong 
Kong, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, The University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(3)Department of Cardiovascular and Renal Research, Institute for Molecular 
Medicine, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.

Adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK), expressed/present 
ubiquitously in the body, contributes to metabolic regulation. In the 
vasculature, activation of AMPK is associated with several beneficial biological 
effects including enhancement of vasodilatation, reduction of oxidative stress 
and inhibition of inflammatory reactions. The vascular protective effects of 
certain anti-diabetic (metformin and sitagliptin) or lipid-lowering (simvastatin 
and fenofibrate) therapeutic agents, of active components of Chinese medicinal 
herbs (resveratrol and berberine) and of pharmacological agents (AICAR, A769662 
and PT1) have been attributed to the activation of AMPK (in endothelial cells, 
vascular smooth muscle cells and/or perivascular adipocytes), independently of 
changes in the metabolic profile (eg glucose tolerance and/or plasma lipoprotein 
levels), leading to improved endothelium-derived nitric oxide-mediated 
vasodilatation and attenuated endothelium-derived cyclooxygenase-dependent 
vasoconstriction. By contrast, endothelial AMPK activation with pharmacological 
agents or by genetic modification is associated with reduced 
endothelium-dependent relaxations in small blood vessels and elevated systolic 
blood pressure. Indeed, AMPK activators inhibit endothelium-dependent 
hyperpolarization (EDH)-type relaxations in superior mesenteric arteries, partly 
by inhibiting endothelial calcium-activated potassium channel signalling. 
Therefore, AMPK activation is not necessarily beneficial in terms of endothelial 
function. The contribution of endothelial AMPK in the regulation of vascular 
tone, in particular in the microvasculature where EDH plays a more important 
role, remains to be characterized.

Â© 2019 Nordic Association for the Publication of BCPT (former Nordic 
Pharmacological Society).

DOI: 10.1111/bcpt.13357
PMID: 31671245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
