1. J Investig Med. 2020 Feb;68(2):383-391. doi: 10.1136/jim-2019-001156. Epub
2019  Oct 30.

Metformin decreases hyaluronan synthesis by vascular smooth muscle cells.

Sainio A(1), Takabe P(2), Oikari S(2)(3), Salomäki-Myftari H(4), Koulu M(4), 
Söderström M(4), Pasonen-Seppänen S(2), Järveläinen H(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedicine, University of Turku, Turku, Finland anorsa@utu.fi.
(2)Institute of Biomedicine, University of Eastern Finland-Kuopio Campus, 
Kuopio, Finland.
(3)Institute of Dentistry, University of Eastern Finland-Kuopio Campus, Kuopio, 
Finland.
(4)Institute of Biomedicine, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Satakunta Central Hospital, Pori, Finland.

Metformin is the first-line drug in the treatment of type 2 diabetes worldwide 
based on its effectiveness and cardiovascular safety. Currently metformin is 
increasingly used during pregnancy in women with gestational diabetes mellitus, 
even if the long-term effects of metformin on offspring are not exactly known. 
We have previously shown that high glucose concentration increases hyaluronan 
(HA) production of cultured human vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) via 
stimulating the expression of hyaluronan synthase 2 (HAS2). This offers a 
potential mechanism whereby hyperglycemia leads to vascular macroangiopathy. In 
this study, we examined whether gestational metformin use affects HA content in 
the aortic wall of mouse offspring in vivo. We also examined the effect of 
metformin on HA synthesis by cultured human VSMCs in vitro. We found that 
gestational metformin use significantly decreased HA content in the intima-media 
of mouse offspring aortas. In accordance with this, the synthesis of HA by VSMCs 
was also significantly decreased in response to treatment with metformin. This 
decrease in HA synthesis was shown to be due to the reduction of both the 
expression of HAS2 and the amount of HAS substrates, particularly 
UDP-N-acetylglucosamine. As shown here, gestational metformin use is capable to 
program reduced HA content in the vascular wall of the offspring strongly 
supporting the idea, that metformin possesses long-term vasculoprotective 
effects.

© American Federation for Medical Research 2020. Re-use permitted under CC 
BY-NC. No commercial re-use. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jim-2019-001156
PMCID: PMC7063400
PMID: 31672719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.
