1. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2020 Jan;29(1):169-175. doi: 
10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-19-0781. Epub 2019 Nov 4.

Metformin Use and Pancreatic Cancer Survival among Non-Hispanic White and 
African American U.S. Veterans with Diabetes Mellitus.

Toriola AT(1)(2), Luo S(2), Thomas TS(3), Drake BF(2), Chang SH(2), Sanfilippo 
KM(3)(4), Carson KR(3)(2)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)St. Louis Veterans Health Administration Medical Center, St. Louis, Missouri. 
a.toriola@wustl.edu.
(2)Division of Public Health Sciences, Department of Surgery, and Siteman Cancer 
Center, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri.
(3)St. Louis Veterans Health Administration Medical Center, St. Louis, Missouri.
(4)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
Missouri.
(5)Flatiron Health, New York, New York.

BACKGROUND: The effect of metformin use on survival among patients with 
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is controversial. Furthermore, there are 
no data on African American patients. To address these, we analyzed data from 
the United States Veterans Health Administration (VHA).
METHODS: A population-based retrospective cohort study evaluating overall 
survival among 3,811 patients with PDAC with preexisting diabetes mellitus, 
diagnosed with PDAC within the VHA between 1998 and 2013. We calculated HRs and 
95% confidence intervals (CI) using multivariable adjusted time-varying Cox 
proportional hazards regression to control for immortal time bias and 
confounders.
RESULTS: Metformin use was not associated with overall survival in the complete 
analyses (HR = 1.05; 95% CI, 0.92-1.14; P = 0.28). However, among patients who 
were metformin naïve at the time of PDAC diagnosis (N = 1,158), metformin use 
was associated with improved overall survival in non-Hispanic white patients (HR 
= 0.78; 95% CI, 0.61-0.99; P = 0.04), but not African American patients (HR = 
1.20; 95% CI, 0.75-1.93; P = 0.45). The survival benefit among non-Hispanic 
whites was limited to patients with metastatic disease (HR = 0.67; 95% CI, 
0.44-1.01; P = 0.06). Among African American patients with metastatic disease, 
HR was 1.30 (95% CI, 0.77-2.53; P = 0.28). There was a suggestion of 
heterogeneity by race in patients with metastatic disease (P heterogeneity = 
0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: We observed no associations between metformin use and survival in 
patients with PDAC, but there appears to be a survival benefit among 
non-Hispanic white patients who were metformin naïve at the time of PDAC 
diagnosis.
IMPACT: If confirmed in other studies, our findings suggest that metformin as an 
adjunctive treatment for PDAC may not improve survival among African American 
patients.

©2019 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-19-0781
PMCID: PMC9448292
PMID: 31685560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interests The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.
