1. Microbes Infect. 2020 Apr;22(3):111-118. doi: 10.1016/j.micinf.2019.10.002.
Epub  2019 Nov 2.

Metformin promotes Mycobacterium tuberculosis killing and increases the 
production of human β-defensins in lung epithelial cells and macrophages.

Rodriguez-Carlos A(1), Valdez-Miramontes C(1), Marin-Luevano P(1), 
González-Curiel I(2), Enciso-Moreno JA(1), Rivas-Santiago B(3).

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Unit-Zacatecas, Mexican Institute for Social Security-IMSS, 
Zacatecas, Mexico.
(2)Faculty of Chemistry, University Autonomous of Zacatecas, Mexico.
(3)Medical Research Unit-Zacatecas, Mexican Institute for Social Security-IMSS, 
Zacatecas, Mexico. Electronic address: rondo_vm@yahoo.com.

Diabetes has been associated with an increased risk of developing tuberculosis. 
The reasons related to the increased susceptibility to develop TB in type 2 
diabetes mellitus (T2DM) individuals, has not been completely elucidated. 
However, this susceptibility has been attributed to several factors including 
failures and misfunctioning of the immune system. In the present study, we aimed 
to determine the role of anti-hyperglycemic drugs such as glyburide, insulin, 
and metformin to promote the killing of mycobacteria through the regulation of 
innate immune molecules such as host defense peptides (HDP) in lung epithelial 
cells and macrophages. Our results showed that metformin reduces bacillary loads 
in macrophages and lung epithelial cells which correlates with higher production 
of β-defensin-2, -3 and -4. Since β-defensins are crucial molecules for 
controlling Mycobacteriumtuberculosis growth, the present results suggest that 
the use of metformin would be the first choice in the treatment for T2DM2, in 
patients within tuberculosis-endemic areas.

Copyright © 2019 Institut Pasteur. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micinf.2019.10.002
PMID: 31689532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Authors 
declare no conflict of interest.
