1. Cancer Prev Res (Phila). 2020 Feb;13(2):195-202. doi: 
10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-19-0427. Epub 2019 Nov 7.

Metformin Use and the Risk of Cancer in Patients with Diabetes: A Nationwide 
Sample Cohort Study.

Oh TK(1), Song IA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, Seoul National University 
Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, South Korea.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, Seoul National University 
Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, South Korea. songoficu@outlook.kr.

Metformin is known to have an antitumor effect; however, its effects in the 
prevention of cancer remain controversial. This study aimed to investigate the 
association of metformin therapy with the development of cancer. A 
population-based cohort study was conducted among adult patients with diabetes 
in 2010 using sample cohort data from the National Health Insurance Service. 
Metformin users were defined as those who had been prescribed repeated oral 
metformin administration over a period of ≥90 days. The primary endpoint of this 
study was the new development of cancer from January 1, 2011, to December 31, 
2015. A total of 66,627 adult patients with diabetes were included in the final 
analysis; 29,974 were metformin users and 36,653 were controls. In the 
time-dependent Cox regression model, after multivariable adjustment, the risk 
for the development of cancer among metformin users was not significantly 
different from that among controls (HR = 0.96; 95% confidence interval, 
0.89-1.03; P = 0.250). In the sensitivity analysis, neither low daily dosage (≤1 
g/day, P = 0.301) nor high daily dosage (>1 g/day, P = 0.497) of metformin was 
significantly associated with the development of cancer between 2011 and 2015. 
We found no association between metformin therapy and the risk of cancer among 
patients with diabetes, even in the high daily dosage groups of metformin (>1 
g/day). However, there might be residual confounders or bias; thus, further 
prospective, large population-based cohort studies are needed to confirm these 
findings. IMPACT: This population-based cohort study suggested a lack of 
association between metformin therapy and the risk of cancer among patients with 
diabetes. Therefore, the relationship between metformin therapy and the risk of 
cancer is still controversial.

©2019 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-19-0427
PMID: 31699707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
