1. Clin Toxicol (Phila). 2020 Jul;58(7):758-762. doi: 
10.1080/15563650.2019.1686514. Epub 2019 Nov 6.

Time to development of metformin-associated lactic acidosis.

Theobald J(1)(2), Schneider J(1), Cheema N(3), DesLauriers C(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, 
WI, USA.
(2)Wisconsin Poison Center, Milwaukee, WI, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Section of Emergency Medicine, University of Chicago, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(4)Illinois Poison Center, Chicago, IL, USA.

Objective: Metformin-associated lactic acidosis (MALA) is a complication of 
metformin overdose. Recommendations for observation time after an acute 
ingestion to monitor for MALA vary. The aim of this study was to characterize 
the time to development of MALA after an acute metformin overdose.Methods: 
Utilizing Crystal Reports (Version 11.0), all metformin cases reported to the 
Illinois Poison Center (IPC) with a National Poison Data System (NPDS) clinical 
effects code of "acidosis" or "anion gap" were retrospectively queried over a 
14-year period (2001-2014). Demographic data, time to MALA, co-ingestants, 
therapeutic modality use, and case outcome were extracted. Interrater 
reliability was assessed using kappa analysis.Results: A total of 88 cases were 
identified of which 44 met criteria for MALA; 40 were acute, acute on chronic, 
or unknown ingestions. The remaining four were chronic ingestions which were 
excluded. The mean age was 41 years (range 19-79 years). Most were female 
(55.0%) and over half (62.5%) were acute on chronic ingestions. Hypoglycemia was 
seen in three ingestions of metformin only. Of the 40 MALA cases, 18 developed 
MALA less than or equal to 6 h after ingestion, 9 between 6-12 h, 3 after 12 h, 
and 10 patients had an unknown time to MALA. The only death in the cohort had 
MALA detected beyond the typical 6-h observation period. Of the exposures when 
time to MALA was known, 40% (12/30) developed MALA greater than 6 h post 
ingestion.Conclusion: A 6-h observation period after a single acute ingestion of 
metformin may be inadequate, as a significant portion of exposures developed 
MALA beyond this time. We recommend a minimum of 12 h of observation following 
an acute overdose. Further study defining prospectively the time to development 
of MALA may improve management of this population.

DOI: 10.1080/15563650.2019.1686514
PMID: 31691608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
