1. Exp Cell Res. 2020 Jan 15;386(2):111717. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2019.111717.
Epub  2019 Nov 9.

Metformin promotes osteogenic differentiation and protects against oxidative 
stress-induced damage in periodontal ligament stem cells via activation of the 
Akt/Nrf2 signaling pathway.

Jia L(1), Xiong Y(1), Zhang W(1), Ma X(2), Xu X(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Stomatology, Shandong University, Jinan, China; Shandong Provincial 
Key Laboratory of Oral Tissue Regeneration, Jinan, China.
(2)School of Stomatology, Shandong University, Jinan, China; Shandong Provincial 
Key Laboratory of Oral Tissue Regeneration, Jinan, China. Electronic address: 
maxiaoni0@126.com.
(3)School of Stomatology, Shandong University, Jinan, China; Shandong Provincial 
Key Laboratory of Oral Tissue Regeneration, Jinan, China. Electronic address: 
xinxu@sdu.edu.cn.

Periodontal ligament stem cell (PDLSC)-based tissue engineering is an important 
method for regenerating lost bone in periodontitis. Maintaining or enhancing the 
osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs, as well as enhancing the resistance of 
PDLSCs to oxidative stress, is necessary in this process. As a common 
hypoglycemic drug, metformin has been reported to have multiple effects on cell 
functions. This study found that low concentrations of metformin did not affect 
cell proliferation but did inhibit adipogenic differentiation and promote 
osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs. This positive effect was associated with 
activation of Akt signaling by metformin. Moreover, applying metformin as either 
a pretreatment or co-treatment could reduce the amount of reactive oxygen 
species, enhance antioxidant capacity, and rescue the cell viability and 
osteogenic differentiation that were negatively affected by H2O2-induced 
oxidative stress in PDLSCs. In addition, metformin was found to activate the 
Nrf2 signaling pathway in PDLSCs, and knockdown of Nrf2 by siRNA impaired the 
protective effect of metformin. Taken together, these results indicate that 
metformin not only promotes osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs, but also 
protects PDLSCs against oxidative stress-induced damage, suggesting that 
metformin could be potentially useful in promoting PDLSC-based bone regeneration 
in the treatment of periodontitis.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2019.111717
PMID: 31715142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
