1. Biomed Pharmacother. 2020 Jan;121:109631. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2019.109631. 
Epub 2019 Nov 9.

Co-administration of omega-3 fatty acids and metformin showed more desirable 
effects than the single therapy on indices of bone mineralisation but not 
gluco-regulatory and antioxidant markers in diabetic rats.

Adeyemi WJ(1), Olayaki LA(2), Abdussalam TA(3), Fabiyi TO(2), Raji TL(2), 
Adetunji AA(2).

Author information:
(1)Physiology Department, Redeemer's University, Ede, Nigeria. Electronic 
address: adeyemiwalej@gmail.com.
(2)Physiology Department, University of Ilorin, Ilorin, Nigeria.
(3)Anatomy and Physiology Department, University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital, 
Ilorin, Nigeria.

Although metformin (Met) is the most recommended anti-diabetogenic drug in type 
2 diabetic state, the drug is known to compromise bone integrity. Like 
metformin, omega-3 fatty acids (ω-3) have gluco-regulatory action; however, it 
aids bone health. Therefore, the present study investigated the effects of ω-3 
and/or metformin in diabetic rats. Fifty rats of ten animals per group were 
divided into the following: Control; Diabetic untreated; Diabetic + ω-3; 
Diabetic + metformin (metfm) and Diabetic + ω-3 + metf groups. Diabetes was 
induced by the administration of streptozotocin (65 mg/kg b.w., i.p.), 15 min 
after the administration of nicotinamide (110 mg/kg b.w., i.p.). Five days 
afterwards, treatments started and they lasted for 28 days. ω-3 and metformin 
were administered at 200 and 180 mg/kg b.w., p.o. respectively. The results 
showed that the induced diabetes was characterised by significant increases in 
calcium to phosphorus ratio, tartrate resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP), glucose 
and insulin resistance; but significant decreases in parathyroid hormone(PTH), 
phosphorus, TAC and hepatic glycogen. Relative to the diabetic control, 
treatments with ω-3 or metformin caused significant elevations in hepatic 
glycogen, total alkaline phosphatase (TALP), osteocalcin, PTH, estradiol, and 
calcium; however, significant decreases in TRAP and glucose. Co-administration 
of ω-3 and metformin caused more desirable effects on TALP, c-terminal 
telopeptide of type 1 collagen, estradiol and calcium to phosphorus ratio 
compared to the single administration. Relative to ω-3, melatonin showed a more 
favourable effect on calcium to phosphorus ratio; however, the former proved to 
have more desirable actions on insulin and TAC. Hence, it was concluded that the 
combined but not the single administration of ω-3 and metformin could be 
preferably used in the management of bone health in diabetic state.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2019.109631
PMID: 31715372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
