1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Feb 1;702:134924. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.134924.  Epub 2019 Nov 2.

Occurrence, toxic effects and removal of metformin in the aquatic environments 
in the world: Recent trends and perspectives.

Elizalde-Velázquez GA(1), Gómez-Oliván LM(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Toxicología Ambiental, Facultad de Química, Universidad 
Autónoma del Estado de México, Paseo Colón intersección Paseo Tollocan s/n, Col. 
Residencial Colón, 50120 Toluca, Estado de México, Mexico.
(2)Laboratorio de Toxicología Ambiental, Facultad de Química, Universidad 
Autónoma del Estado de México, Paseo Colón intersección Paseo Tollocan s/n, Col. 
Residencial Colón, 50120 Toluca, Estado de México, Mexico. Electronic address: 
lmgomezo@uaemex.mx.

Metformin (MET) is the most common drug used to treat type 2 diabetes, but also 
it is used as an anticancer agent and as a treatment for polycystic ovary 
syndrome. This drug is not metabolized in the human body, and may enter into the 
environment through different pathways. In wastewater treatments plants (WWTPs), 
this contaminant is mainly transformed to guanylurea (GUA). However, three 
further transformation products (TPs): (a) 2,4- diamino-1,3,5-triazine, 4-DAT; 
(b) 2-amino-4-methylamino-1,3,5-triazine, 2,4-AMT; and (c) methylbiguanide, MBG; 
have also been associated with its metabolism. MET, GUA and MBG have been found 
in WWTPs influents, effluents and surface waters. Furthermore, MET and GUA 
bioaccumulate in edible plants species, fish and mussels potentially 
contaminating the human food web. MET is also a potential endocrine disruptor in 
fish. Phytoremediation, adsorption and biodegradation have shown a high removal 
efficiency of MET, in laboratory. Nonetheless, these removal methods had less 
efficiency when tried in WWTPs. Therefore, MET and its TPs are a threat to the 
human being as well as to our environment. This review comprehensively discuss 
the (1) pathways of MET to the environment and its life-cycle, (2) occurrence of 
MET and its transformation products (3) removal, (4) toxic effects and (5) 
future trends and perspectives of possible methods of elimination in water in 
order to provide potential options for managing these contaminants.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.134924
PMID: 31726346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
