1. AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 2020 Apr;36(4):303-305. doi: 10.1089/AID.2019.0078.
 Epub 2020 Jan 8.

Short Communication: Metformin Reduces CD4 T Cell Exhaustion in HIV-Infected 
Adults on Suppressive Antiretroviral Therapy.

Shikuma CM(1), Chew GM(2), Kohorn L(1), Souza SA(1), Chow D(1), SahBandar IN(2), 
Park EY(2), Hanks N(1), Gangcuangco LMA(2), Gerschenson M(3), Ndhlovu LC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, John A. Burns School of Medicine, University of 
Hawaii - Manoa, Honolulu, Hawaii.
(2)Department of Tropical Medicine, Medical Microbiology and Pharmacology, John 
A. Burns School of Medicine, University of Hawaii - Manoa, Honolulu, Hawaii.
(3)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, John A. Burns School of Medicine, 
University of Hawaii - Manoa, Honolulu, Hawaii.

Increased negative immune checkpoint receptors (NCR) on T cells are linked to T 
cell exhaustion, dysfunctional effector responses, and HIV viral persistence. 
Metformin, an oral hypoglycemic agent used for diabetes, may have previously 
unrecognized beneficial immunologic effects. Using cryopreserved blood from a 
24-week pilot study involving 12 virally suppressed HIV-infected individuals 
randomized 1:1 to metformin versus observation (OBS), we assessed change in the 
frequencies of T cell activation (CD38+HLA-DR+) and NCR [programmed cell death 
protein 1 (PD1), T cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains (TIGIT), and T 
cell mucin-domain containing-3 (TIM3)]. No differences in 24-week change were 
seen between arms in CD4 or CD8 T cells, in the CD4/CD8 ratio, or in activated 
(CD38+HLA-DR+) CD4 or CD8 T cells. However, metformin over 24 weeks led to 
decreases compared with OBS in single PD1+ (percent decrease: -9.6% vs. 7.5%, 
p = .015), in dual PD1+TIGIT+ (-15.0% vs. 10.4%, p = .002), and in triple 
PD1+TIGIT+TIM3+ (-24.0% vs. 8.1%, p = .041) CD4 T cells. Metformin led to no 
changes in CD8 T cell NCR frequencies. Metformin decreases the frequency of 
PD1+, PD1+TIGIT+, and PD1+TIGIT+TIM3+ expressing CD4 T cells. This may have 
relevance to HIV cure strategies and to efforts to mitigate the risk of chronic 
complications of HIV.

DOI: 10.1089/AID.2019.0078
PMCID: PMC7185314
PMID: 31731885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No competing financial interests exist.
