1. J Ethnopharmacol. 2020 Mar 1;249:112383. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.112383. Epub 
2019 Nov 14.

Aqueous extract of Digitaria exilis grains ameliorate diabetes in 
streptozotocin-induced diabetic male Wistar rats.

Adams DM(1), Yakubu MT(2).

Author information:
(1)Phytomedicine, Biochemical Toxicology and Reproductive Biochemistry Research 
Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry, University of Ilorin, Ilorin, Kwara, 
Nigeria; Phytomedicine, Biochemical Toxicology and Clinical Biochemistry 
Research Unit, Department of Biochemistry, Bingham University, Karu, Nasarawa, 
Nigeria.
(2)Phytomedicine, Biochemical Toxicology and Reproductive Biochemistry Research 
Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry, University of Ilorin, Ilorin, Kwara, 
Nigeria. Electronic address: yamt@unilorin.edu.ng.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The absence of scientific data on the age long 
folkloric use of Digitaria exilis grains by sufferers of diabetes prompted the 
present investigation. This study was aimed at evaluating the antidiabetic 
activity of aqueous extract of Digitaria exilis grains in streptozotocin 
(STZ)-induced diabetic rats.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Forty two male rats (166.43 ± 3.32 g) were completely 
randomized into six groups (A-F) of 7 animals each. Animals in group A (control) 
were administered 0.5 ml of distilled water while those in groups B, C, D, E and 
F which were induced with diabetes mellitus (by intraperitoneal administration 
of 60 mg/kg body weight of STZ) were also administered distilled water, 50 mg/kg 
body weight of metformin (a reference antidiabetic drug), 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg 
body weight of aqueous extract of D. exilis grains respectively, twice daily for 
14 days. Blood glucose levels and some relevant biomolecules were determined 14 
days post-administration.
RESULTS: Alkaloids, flavonoids, saponins, tannins, anthraquinones, terpenoids, 
cardiac glycosides, phlobatannins, phenolics and cardenolides were detected in 
the extract with alkaloids (30.20 mg/ml) occurring the most and phlobatannins 
(0.22 mg/ml) the least. Streptozotocin significantly (p < 0.05) increased the 
levels of blood glucose, serum albumin, urea, creatinine and cholesterol, 
activities of glucose-6-phosphatase and fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase in the liver 
and intake of feed and water. Body weight, weight of pancreas, pancreatic 
insulin, liver glycogen content, red blood cell and white blood cell and their 
related indices, liver hexokinase and phosphofructokinase activities were 
significantly reduced by STZ. In contrast, the extract significantly reversed 
all those STZ-treatment induced changes with the 200 mg/kg body weight of the 
extract producing profound values that compared favourably with the distilled 
water treated non-diabetic animals and metformin treated diabetic animals.
CONCLUSION: Overall, this study revealed that Digitaria exilis grains possess 
antidiabetic activity via increased insulin secretion, as plasma concentrations 
of insulin were not determined, enhanced activities of hexokinase and 
phosphofuctokinase and repletion of hepatic glycogen content.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.112383
PMID: 31733308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
