1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Jan 20;701:135021. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.135021.  Epub 2019 Oct 28.

Pharmaceuticals, pesticides, personal care products and microplastics 
contamination assessment of Al-Hassa irrigation network (Saudi Arabia) and its 
shallow lakes.

Picó Y(1), Alvarez-Ruiz R(2), Alfarhan AH(3), El-Sheikh MA(3), Alshahrani HO(3), 
Barceló D(4).

Author information:
(1)Environmental and Food Safety Research Group (SAMA-UV), Desertification 
Research Centre CIDE (CSIC-UV-GV), Moncada-Naquera Road Km 4.5, 46113 Moncada, 
Spain. Electronic address: Yolanda.Pico@uv.es.
(2)Environmental and Food Safety Research Group (SAMA-UV), Desertification 
Research Centre CIDE (CSIC-UV-GV), Moncada-Naquera Road Km 4.5, 46113 Moncada, 
Spain.
(3)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Science, King Saud 
University, P.O. Box 2455, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Science, King Saud 
University, P.O. Box 2455, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia; Water and Soil Quality 
Research Group, Department of Environmental Chemistry, IDAEA-CSIC, Barcelona, 
Spain.

This study assess the presence of pharmaceutical and personal care products 
(PPCPs) and pesticides in different environmental compartments and microplastics 
in water of a characteristic lagoon wetland in Saudi Arabia to establish the 
transport, accumulation and fate of these pollutants in a water-stressed area 
under high anthropogenic pressure. In water, diazinon (up to 1016 ng L-1), 
caffeine (up to 20,663 ng L-1), diclofenac (up to 1390 ng L-1) and paracetamol 
(up to 3069 ng L-1) were at the highest concentrations. The substances with the 
highest frequency of detection were carbendazim, atorvastatin, caffeine, 
etoricoxib, lorazepam, metformin, ofloxacin, paracetamol, salicylic acid and 
tramadol. Considerably less pesticides and PPCPs at concentrations ranging from 
0.01 to 126 ng g-1 dry weight (d.w.) were detected in the other matrices 
(sediment ≫ soil > plants). The concentration of microplastics in water ranged 
from 0.7 to 7.8 items/L in the Al-Asfar lake and from 1.1 to 9.0 items/L in the 
Al-Hubail lake. Risk assessment [using hazards quotients (HQ)] was used to 
highlight pesticides and PPCPs of major ecological concern that should be 
closely monitored to avoid adverse effects.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.135021
PMID: 31734487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
