1. Clin Chim Acta. 2020 Mar;502:214-221. doi: 10.1016/j.cca.2019.11.003. Epub
2019  Nov 13.

Polycystic ovarian syndrome: Correlation between hyperandrogenism, insulin 
resistance and obesity.

Zeng X(1), Xie YJ(2), Liu YT(3), Long SL(4), Mo ZC(5).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Anatomy & Reproductive Medicine Application Institute, Department of 
Histology and Embryology, University of South China, Hengyang, Hunan 421001, 
China.
(2)Clinical Anatomy & Reproductive Medicine Application Institute, Department of 
Histology and Embryology, University of South China, Hengyang, Hunan 421001, 
China; Hunan Province Innovative Training Base for Medical Postgraduates, 
University of South China and Yueyang Women & Children's Medical Center, 
Institute of Reproductive Medicine, Yueyang, Hunan 416000, China.
(3)Clinical Anatomy & Reproductive Medicine Application Institute, Department of 
Histology and Embryology, University of South China, Hengyang, Hunan 421001, 
China; 2017 Grade Excellent Doctor Class of Hengyang Medical School, University 
of South China, Hengyang 421001, China.
(4)Clinical Anatomy & Reproductive Medicine Application Institute, Department of 
Histology and Embryology, University of South China, Hengyang, Hunan 421001, 
China. Electronic address: shlilong_sub@sina.com.
(5)Clinical Anatomy & Reproductive Medicine Application Institute, Department of 
Histology and Embryology, University of South China, Hengyang, Hunan 421001, 
China; Hunan Province Innovative Training Base for Medical Postgraduates, 
University of South China and Yueyang Women & Children's Medical Center, 
Institute of Reproductive Medicine, Yueyang, Hunan 416000, China. Electronic 
address: zhchmo@hotmail.com.

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a complex and heterogeneous endocrine 
disease characterized by clinical or laboratorial hyperandrogenism, 
oligo-anovulation and metabolic abnormalities, including insulin resistance, 
excessive weight or obesity, type II diabetes, dyslipidemia and an increased 
risk of cardiovascular disease. The most significant clinical manifestation of 
PCOS is hyperandrogenism. Excess androgen profoundly affects granulosa cell 
function and follicular development via complex mechanisms that lead to obesity 
and insulin resistance. Most PCOS patients with hyperandrogenism have steroid 
secretion defects that result in abnormal folliculogenesis and failed dominant 
follicle selection. Hyperandrogenism induces obesity, hairy, acne, and 
androgenetic alopecia. These symptoms can bring great psychological stress to 
women. Drugs such as combined oral contraceptive pills, metformin, pioglitazone 
and low-dose spironolactone help improve pregnancy rates by decreasing androgen 
levels in vivo. Notably, PCOS is heterogeneous, and hyperandrogenism is not the 
only pathogenic factor. Obesity and insulin resistance aggravate the symptoms of 
hyperandrogenism, forming a vicious cycle that promotes PCOS development. 
Although numerous studies have been conducted, the definitive pathogenic 
mechanisms of PCOS remain uncertain. This review summarizes and discusses 
previous and recent findings regarding the relationship between 
hyperandrogenism, insulin resistance, obesity and PCOS.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2019.11.003
PMID: 31733195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.
