1. Ann Pharmacother. 2020 May;54(5):478-485. doi: 10.1177/1060028019889064. Epub 
2019 Nov 19.

Oral Semaglutide: First-in-Class Oral GLP-1 Receptor Agonist for the Treatment 
of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus.

Cowart K(1).

Author information:
(1)University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, USA.

Objective:The purpose of this article is to review the pharmacological 
characteristics and clinical evidence of oral semaglutide for the treatment of 
type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Data Sources: A MEDLINE/PubMed search was 
conducted between January 1, 2005, and September 30, 2019. Search terms included 
semaglutide, glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist, GLP-1 receptor agonist, 
and type 2 diabetes. Study Selection and Data Extraction Quantification: The 
following study designs were included in the analysis: systematic review and/or 
meta-analyses, clinical trial, or observational study design. Narrative reviews 
were excluded. Articles were included only if they were published in the English 
language or evaluated oral semaglutide with regard to pharmacology, 
pharmacokinetics, safety, and efficacy in humans. Data Synthesis: Oral 
semaglutide has been Food and Drug Administration approved for the treatment of 
T2DM as an adjunct to diet and exercise. Oral semaglutide has been shown to 
result in an absolute hemoglobin A1C reduction between -0.5% and -1.5% and 
weight reductions between -1 and -4.7 kg. Oral semaglutide has been shown to be 
noninferior to placebo for cardiovascular (CV) safety although additional CV 
outcomes trials are ongoing. Adverse effects appear to be similar to those of 
other glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists and are gastrointestinal in 
nature. Relevance to Patient Care and Clinical Practice: Oral semaglutide may be 
appropriate as second- or third-line add-on therapy for patients with T2DM who 
are not meeting treatment goals on metformin and are overweight and reluctant to 
use an injectable drug. Conclusions: Oral semaglutide appears safe and effective 
as monotherapy and add-on pharmacological therapy for the treatment of T2DM.

DOI: 10.1177/1060028019889064
PMID: 31744308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
