1. Neurosci Lett. 2020 Jan 18;716:134638. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2019.134638. Epub
 2019 Nov 19.

Evaluation of the effects of metformin administration on morphine tolerance in 
mice.

Shirooie S(1), Esmaeili J(2), Sureda A(3), Esmaeili N(4), Mirzaee Saffari P(2), 
Yousefi-Manesh H(2), Dehpour AR(5).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Health Institute, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Research Group on Community Nutrition and Oxidative Stress (NUCOX) and 
CIBEROBN (Physiopathology of Obesity and Nutrition CB12/03/30038), University of 
Balearic Islands, Palma de Mallorca E-07122, Balearic Islands, Spain.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Sciences, Semnan University, Semnan, 
Iran.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Experimental Medicine Research Center, Tehran University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: dehpoura@sina.tums.ac.ir.

Opioids are used in clinical practice to relieve moderate to severe pain. 
Prolonged use of opioids can lead to a situation of analgesic tolerance and 
dependence. Several mechanisms are involved in the tolerance to analgesic 
opioids, including desensitization or internalization of the opioid receptor, 
elevation of cAMP levels, microglial activation and neuroinflammation, elevation 
of spinal mTOR activity and change in the expression of some proteins involved 
in tolerance, such as nNOS. Activation of the AMPK pathway inhibits mTOR and p38 
MAPK ameliorating neuroinflammation and tolerance induced by morphine. 
Metformin, a potent antidiabetic agent, can also activate AMPK. Morphine 
tolerance was induced in mice by intraperitoneal administration three times 
daily at 08:00, 11.00 and 16.00 h of 50, 50 and 75 mg/kg morphine, respectively 
during four days. On the fifth day mice received a single injection of morphine 
50 mg/kg. To evaluate the effects of metformin in development of 
morphine-induced analgesic tolerance a group of mice received metformin (10 
mg/kg) 45 min before each morphine administration. Tail flick and hot plate 
tests were performed to estimate analgesic latency on days 1, 3 and 5. At five 
days, the animals were sacrificed, the brain dissected and nitrite levels 
determined. Chronic metformin administration significantly increased the 
analgesic latency on days 3 and 5 compared to the morphine group in hot plate 
test and in tail flick test. Chronic and acute metformin administration 
significantly decreased nitric oxide level compare to morphine group. The 
present results revealed that metformin attenuated analgesic tolerance induced 
by repeated intraperitoneal injections of morphine in mice.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2019.134638
PMID: 31756370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
