1. Rev Neurosci. 2020 Apr 28;31(3):297-317. doi: 10.1515/revneuro-2019-0072.

Could metformin be therapeutically useful in Huntington's disease?

Tang BL(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University Health System, Singapore 117596, Singapore.
(2)NUS Graduate School for Integrative Sciences and Engineering, National 
University of Singapore, Medical Drive, Singapore 119077, Singapore.

Emerging evidence suggest that dimethylbiguanide (metformin), a first-line drug 
for type 2 diabetes mellitus, could be neuroprotective in a range of brain 
pathologies, which include neurodegenerative diseases and brain injury. However, 
there are also contraindications that associate metformin treatment with 
cognitive impairment as well as adverse outcomes in Alzheimer's disease and 
Parkinson's disease animal models. Recently, a beneficial effect of metformin in 
animal models of Huntington's disease (HD) has been strengthened by multiple 
reports. In this brief review, the findings associated with the effects of 
metformin in attenuating neurodegenerative diseases are discussed, focusing on 
HD-associated pathology and the potential underlying mechanisms highlighted by 
these studies. The mechanism of action of metformin is complex, and its 
therapeutic efficacy is therefore expected to be dependent on the disease 
context. The key metabolic pathways that are effectively affected by metformin, 
such as AMP-activated protein kinase activation, may be altered in the later 
decades of the human lifespan. In this regard, metformin may nonetheless be 
therapeutically useful for neurological diseases with early pathological onsets, 
such as HD.

DOI: 10.1515/revneuro-2019-0072
PMID: 31751298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
