1. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2020 Jan 1;318(1):E52-E61. doi: 
10.1152/ajpendo.00221.2019. Epub 2019 Nov 26.

Combined effects of Scutellaria baicalensis with metformin on glucose tolerance 
of patients with type 2 diabetes via gut microbiota modulation.

Shin NR(1), Gu N(2), Choi HS(3), Kim H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine of Korean Medicine, Dongguk University, 
Siksa, Goyang, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Clinical Trial Center, 
Dongguk University College of Medicine and Ilsan Hospital, Siksa, Goyang, 
Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, Dongguk University, Dongguk-ro, Goyang, 
Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea.

Metformin is a widely prescribed antidiabetic agent, whereas Scutellaria 
baicalensis (SB) is a commonly used medicinal herb for treatment of type 2 
diabetes (T2D). Gut microbiota is involved in pathophysiology of metabolic 
diseases including T2D, and intestinal microbiota may be one of the important 
therapeutic targets for the ailment. This study was conducted to investigate the 
effects of SB combined with metformin on treatment of T2D while evaluating 
changes in the gut microbiota composition. Patients with T2D were randomized 
into control and treatment groups. Subjects who had already been prescribed 
metformin were allotted to additional SB (3.52 g/day) group or placebo group. 
The initial treatment session was 8 wk, and after washout period for 4 wk they 
were crossed over to the opposite treatment for another 8 wk. The influence of 
SB and placebo on the intestinal microbiota was analyzed by MiSeq system based 
on 16S rRNA gene. Glucose tolerance was lower in the SB group than the placebo 
group. Similarly, the relative RNA expression of TNF-Î± was significantly reduced 
after SB treatment. SB treatment influenced the gut microbiota, especially 
Lactobacillus and Akkermansia, which showed remarkable increases after SB 
treatment. Some subjects showed high liver enzyme levels after SB treatment, and 
their microbiota composition at baseline differed with subjects whose liver 
enzymes were not affected. We also predicted that selenocompound metabolism was 
increased and naphthalene degradation was decreased after SB treatment. These 
results suggest that SB with metformin treatment may improve the glucose 
tolerance and inflammation and influence the gut microbiota community in T2D.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.00221.2019
PMID: 31770016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
