1. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2020 Jan;159:107946. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2019.107946. Epub 2019 Nov 26.

The right place for metformin today.

Schernthaner G(1), Schernthaner GH(2).

Author information:
(1)Rudolfstiftung Hospital & Medical University of Vienna, Department of 
Medicine II, Vienna, Austria; Medical University of Vienna, Department of 
Medicine II, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Medical University of Vienna, Department of Medicine II, Division of 
Angiology, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address: 
guntram.schernthaner@meduniwien.ac.at.

Metformin is the most widely used glucose lowering drug worldwide in the 
treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes, since we have experience with this 
drug for more than 60 years about the efficacy and safety. Metformin is very 
effective in HbA1c lowering associated with some weight loss, but does not 
increase risk for hypoglycemia. At the moment all guidelines in the world 
recommend to use metformin in monotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed 
diabetes or in combination with other antidiabetic drugs with documented CV (and 
renal) benefit in cardiovascular outcome trials (CVOT). Although a randomized 
placebo controlled CVOT with metformin is lacking, many observational studies in 
patients with coronary heart disease, heart failure and chronic kidney disease 
have demonstrated consistent beneficial effects. A recent metanalysis of 26 
observational studies including 815 839 patients showed that metformin use was 
associated with a significantly lower rate of all-cause mortality (HR: 0.74; 95% 
CI: 0.68-0.81). Whether this very consistent reduction of all-cause mortality is 
related to the incidence/outcome of several cancers has still to be 
investigated. In the future early combination therapy of metformin e.g. with 
SGLT-2 inhibitors should be more often used.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2019.107946
PMID: 31778746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.
