1. Bioorg Chem. 2020 Jan;94:103444. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2019.103444. Epub 2019 
Nov 19.

Novel halogenated sulfonamide biguanides with anti-coagulation properties.

Markowicz-Piasecka M(1), Sikora J(2), Zajda A(3), Huttunen KM(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Bioanalysis, Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Drug 
Analysis and Radiopharmacy, Medical University of Lodz, ul. Muszyńskiego1, 
90-151 Lodz, Poland. Electronic address: magdalena.markowicz@umed.lodz.pl.
(2)Laboratory of Bioanalysis, Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Drug 
Analysis and Radiopharmacy, Medical University of Lodz, ul. Muszyńskiego1, 
90-151 Lodz, Poland. Electronic address: joanna.sikora@umed.lodz.pl.
(3)Students Research Group, Laboratory of Bioanalysis, Department of 
Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Drug Analysis and Radiopharmacy, Medical University of 
Lodz, ul. Muszyńskiego 1, 90-151 Lodz, Poland. Electronic address: 
agnieszka.zajda@stud.umed.lodz.pl.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Eastern 
Finland, Yliopistonranta 1C, POB 1627, 70211 Kuopio, Finland. Electronic 
address: kristiina.huttunen@uef.fi.

Apart from its hypoglycaemic properties, metformin also offers beneficial 
effects for the cardiovascular system resulting in significant reduction of 
diabetes-related death, and all-cause mortality. The aim of this study was to 
synthesize nine new benzenesulfonamide derivatives of metformin with a halogen 
substituent, and estimate their influence on selected parameters of plasma and 
vascular hemostasis. The study describes the synthesis of nine 
benzenesulfonamide biguanides with o-, m-, and p- chloro-, bromo-, and fluoro 
substituents. All orto- derivatives (chloro- (1), bromo- (4), and fluoro- (7)) 
significantly prolong prothrombin time (PT) and partially activated 
thromboplastin time (APTT). In addition compounds 4 and 7 slow the process of 
fibrin polymerization, and contribute to increased TT. Multiparametric CL-test 
revealed that compounds 1, 4, 7 and p-fluorobenzenesulfonamide (9) significantly 
prolong the onset of clot formation, decrease initial clot formation velocity, 
and maximum clotting. Analysis of human endothelial cell (HUVECs) and human 
aortal smooth muscle cell (AoSMCs) viability over the entire tested 
concentration range (0.001-3.0 μmol/mL) indicated that the examined compounds 
can undergo further tests up to 1.5 µmol/mL concentration without decreasing 
cellular viability. Furthermore, none of the synthesized compounds exert an 
unfavourable effect on erythrocyte integrity, and thus do not interact strongly 
with the lipid-protein bilayer. In summary, chemical modification of the 
metformin backbone into benzenesulfonamides containing halogen substituents at 
the o- position leads to the formation of potential agents with stronger 
anti-coagulant properties than the parent drug, metformin. Therefore, 
o-halogenated benzenesulfonamides can be regarded as an initial promising step 
in the development of novel biguanide-based compounds with anti-coagulant 
properties.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2019.103444
PMID: 31776031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
