1. Anticancer Drugs. 2020 Apr;31(4):345-352. doi: 10.1097/CAD.0000000000000875.

Metformin mediated microRNA-7 upregulation inhibits growth, migration, and 
invasion of non-small cell lung cancer A549 cells.

Dong J(1), Peng H, Yang X, Wu W, Zhao Y, Chen D, Chen L, Liu J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, West China School of Basic 
Medical Sciences & Forensic Medicine, Sichuan University, Chengdu, P.R. China.

Metformin, a medication widely used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes 
mellitus, has a possible antitumor effect in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients. 
MicroRNA-7 is a significant microRNA in non-small cell lung cancer. Metformin 
has an inhibitory effect on lung cancer and regulates the expression of certain 
microRNAs, but there is no report connecting metformin with microRNA-7 in lung 
cancer. Thus, we used qPCR to measure microRNA-7 expression in A549 non-small 
cell lung cancer cells treated with metformin. We used CCK8, cell scratch, and 
Transwell assays to test the growth, migration, and invasion of A549 cells. 
Western blotting was used to measure the expression level of relevant proteins 
in A549 cells. We found that microRNA-7 was dramatically upregulated by 
metformin via AMPK in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Both metformin and 
microRNA-7 mimic reduced A549 cell growth, migration, and invasion. Metformin 
downregulated the levels of p-NF-κB p65, p-Erk1/2, p-AKT, and p-mTOR proteins. 
The treatment with the microRNA-7 mimic had the same result. The decrease of 
these proteins caused the inhibition of A549 cell growth, migration, and 
invasion. Our discovery revealed that metformin, via increasing the expression 
of microRNA-7 mediated by AMPK, regulates the AKT/mTOR, MAPK/Erk, and NF-κB 
signaling pathways, thereby suppressing A549 cell growth, migration, and 
invasion.

DOI: 10.1097/CAD.0000000000000875
PMCID: PMC7077962
PMID: 31789625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
