1. Biochimie. 2020 Jan;168:277-284. doi: 10.1016/j.biochi.2019.11.010. Epub 2019 
Nov 29.

Inactivated AMPK-α2 promotes the progression of diabetic brain damage by Cdk5 
phosphorylation at Thr485 site.

Li Y(1), Xiang Q(2), Yao YH(1), Li JJ(1), Wang Y(3), Li XH(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, Jishou University, Hunan Province, PR China.
(2)Institute of Medicine, Medical Research Center, Hunan Engineering Laboratory 
for Analyse and Drugs Development of Ethnomedicine in Wuling Mountains, Jishou 
University, Hunan Province, PR China.
(3)Pharmacy Department, The First People's Hospital of Foshan, Foshan City, 
Guang Dong Province, PR China.
(4)Institute of Medicine, Medical Research Center, Hunan Engineering Laboratory 
for Analyse and Drugs Development of Ethnomedicine in Wuling Mountains, Jishou 
University, Hunan Province, PR China. Electronic address: lxh_surgeon@yeah.net.

Changes in brain energy metabolism in diabetes mellitus, including increased 
insulin resistance and mitochondrial dysfunction, are critically involved in 
diabetes-related neurodegeneration, and associate with early cognitive 
impairment as well. The aim of this study is to detect the specific 
phosphorylated-Thr485- AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK-α2), regulated by 
cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) paly the inhibitory functional role of AMPK-α2, 
Which is maybe the link to the accelerated diabetic brain damage progression. 
Here, we used GK rats, the type 2 diabetic animal model for in vivo studies and 
performed In vitro kinase assay, high glucose treatment, -phosphorylated 
mutation and protein expression in both HEK-293T and HT-22 cell lines. In vitro, 
the results show that murine wild-type AMPK-α2 was phosphorylated by Cdk5 at a 
(S/T)PX(K/H/R) phosphorylation consensus sequence, which was associated with 
decreased AMPK-α2 activity. Surprisingly, mutation of Thr485 to alanine in 
AMPK-α2 results in the abolished Cdk5 effects, demonstrating that 
Thr485-phosphorylation is critical to AMPK-α2 inhibition by Cdk5. In addition, 
these alterations in AMPK-α2-phosphorylation and -activity induced by Cdk5 is 
specific at Thr485. Furthermore, in GK rats, the increased phosphorylated- Thr 
485 of AMPK-α2 results in the decreased AMPK-α2 activity, which is correlated 
with the apoptosis of neurons in hippocamps. After high glucose treatment, the 
decreased survival showed in AMPK-α2T485A HT-22 cells compared to AMPK-α2WT. The 
down-regulated of p-CREB, SNAP25, synaptophysin as well as synapsin-1were shown 
in both GK rats and HT-22 cell line. Meanwhile, pre-treated with either the 
specific Cdk5-inhibitor (roscovitine) or the antidiabetic AMPK-α2-inhibitor 
(metformin) could restore the alterations in neuronal protein expression. Our 
results suggest that Cdk5-mediated phosphorylated- Thr485 in AMPK-α2 may be 
involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic brain damage.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. and Société Française de Biochimie et Biologie 
Moléculaire (SFBBM). All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biochi.2019.11.010
PMID: 31786229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
