1. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2020 Apr;22(4):590-598. doi: 10.1111/dom.13934. Epub 2019
 Dec 22.

Persistent whole day meal effects of three dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors on 
glycaemia and hormonal responses in metformin-treated type 2 diabetes.

Alsalim W(1), Göransson O(2), Tura A(3), Pacini G(3), Mari A(3), Ahrén B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(2)Department of Experimental Medical Science, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(3)CNR Institute of Neuroscience, Padova, Italy.

AIM: Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibition has effects on both fasting and 
postprandial glucose. However, the extent of this effect over the whole day and 
whether different DPP-4 inhibitors have the same effects have not been 
established. We therefore explored the whole day effects of three different 
DPP-4 inhibitors versus placebo on glucose, islet and incretin hormones after 
ingestion of breakfast, lunch and dinner in subjects with metformin-treated and 
well-controlled type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: The study was single-centre and crossover designed, involving 24 
subjects [12 men, 12 women, mean age 63 years, body mass index 31.0 kg/m2 , 
glycated haemoglobin 44.7 mmol/mol (6.2%)], who underwent four test days in 
random order. Each whole day test included ingestion of standardized breakfast 
(525 kcal), lunch (780 kcal) and dinner (560 kcal) after intake of sitagliptin 
(100 mg) or vildagliptin (50 mg twice), or saxagliptin (5 mg) or placebo.
RESULTS: Compared with placebo, DPP-4 inhibition reduced glucose levels, 
increased beta-cell function (insulin secretory rate in relation to glucose), 
suppressed glucagon, increased intact glucagon-like-peptide-1 (GLP-1) and 
glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) but suppressed total GLP-1 
and GIP after all three meals. The effects were sustained throughout the daytime 
period with similar changes after each meal and did not differ between the DPP-4 
inhibitors.
CONCLUSIONS: DPP-4 inhibition has persistent daytime effects on glucose, islet 
and incretin hormones with no difference between three different DPP-4 
inhibitors.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/dom.13934
PMID: 31789451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
