1. Curr Med Res Opin. 2020 Mar;36(3):397-401. doi: 10.1080/03007995.2019.1700360.
 Epub 2019 Dec 14.

Observational study of the efficacy of prolonged-release metformin in people 
with prediabetes.

Hostalek U(1), Zilahi Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Global Medical Affairs, Darmstadt, Germany.
(2)Private Endocrine Practice, Nyiregyhaza, Hungary.

Objectives: Prediabetes is characterized by elevation of indices of blood 
glucose that is insufficient to provoke a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes, but 
markedly increases the risk of developing type 2 diabetes in the future. 
Lifestyle interventions are the main therapeutic intervention for the management 
of prediabetes. Current guidelines also support treatment of prediabetes with 
metformin for selected subgroups of patients, and metformin has a therapeutic 
indication for this use in a number of countries.Methods: We performed an 
observational, non-interventional study of the effects on glycaemia of 
prolonged-release metformin (Glucophage XR, referred to henceforth as metformin 
XR) in 686 subjects with prediabetes. Metformin was prescribed according to 
physicians' usual care practices, and the study duration was 12 weeks.Results: 
Mean (SD) fasting plasma glucose (FPG) at baseline was 6.2 (0.4) mmol/L [111 (8) 
mg/dL) and was reduced by -0.55 (0.7) mmol/L [-10 (13) mg/dL] after 12 weeks of 
metformin XR. FPG was normalized to below the American Diabetes Association 
cut-off for the diagnosis of prediabetes (<5.7 mmol/L [100 mg/dL]) in 43% of 
subjects. Increasing age, increasing body mass index, not following a 
weight-loss diet and alcohol use predicted a lower probability of normalized 
FPG. Metformin was well tolerated, with most side effects occurring in the 
gastrointestinal system, as expected.Conclusions: Metformin XR normalized FPG in 
about two-fifths of subjects with prediabetes. These real-world data add further 
support a role for metformin in the management of prediabetes, in line with 
current guidelines in this area.

DOI: 10.1080/03007995.2019.1700360
PMID: 31793818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
