1. BMB Rep. 2020 Jun;53(6):311-316. doi: 10.5483/BMBRep.2020.53.6.169.

Metformin ameliorates bile duct ligation-induced acute hepatic injury via 
regulation of ER stress.

Lee CH(1), Han JH(1), Kim S(1), Lee H(1), Kim S(1), Nam DH(2), Cho DH(1), Woo 
CH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Smart-Ageing Convergence Research Center, 
Yeungnam University College of Medicine, Daegu 42415, Korea.
(2)Center for Inflammation, Immunity & Infection, Institute for Biomedical 
Sciences, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA 30302, USA.

Cholestasis is a condition in which the bile duct becomes narrowed or clogged by 
a variety of factors and bile acid is not released smoothly. Bile acid-induced 
liver injury is facilitated by necrotic cell death, neutrophil infiltration, and 
inflammation. Metformin, the first-line treatment for type 2 diabetes, is known 
to reduce not only blood glucose but also inflammatory responses. In this study, 
we investigated the effects of metformin on liver injury caused by cholestasis 
with bile acid-induced hepatocyte injury. Static bile acid-induced liver injury 
is thought to be related to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, inflammatory 
response, and chemokine expression. Metformin treatment reduced liver injury 
caused by bile acid, and it suppressed ER stress, inflammation, chemokine 
expression, and neutrophil infiltration. Similar results were obtained in mouse 
primary hepatocytes exposed to bile acid. Hepatocytes treated with 
tauroursodeoxycholic acid, an ER stress inhibitor, showed inhibition of ER 
stress, as well as reduced levels of inflammation and cell death. These results 
suggest that metformin may protect against liver injury by suppressing ER stress 
and inflammation and reducing chemokine expression. [BMB Reports 2020; 53(6): 
311-316].

DOI: 10.5483/BMBRep.2020.53.6.169
PMCID: PMC7330811
PMID: 31791444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors have no 
conflicting interests.
