1. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2020 Apr;22(4):648-657. doi: 10.1111/dom.13940. Epub 2019
 Dec 26.

Effects of treatment with metformin and/or sitagliptin on beta-cell function and 
insulin resistance in prediabetic women with previous gestational diabetes.

Daniele G(1), Tura A(2), Dardano A(1), Bertolotto A(1), Bianchi C(1), Giusti 
L(1), Kurumthodathu JJ(1), Del Prato S.

Author information:
(1)Section of Metabolic Diseases and Diabetes, Department of Clinical and 
Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.
(2)Metabolic Unit, CNR Institute of Neuroscience, Padova, Italy.

AIM: To investigate the effect of sitagliptin (SITA) and metformin (MET) 
monotherapy as well as in combination (MET+SITA) on beta-cell function and 
insulin sensitivity in women with recent gestational diabetes (GDM) and impaired 
glucose regulation (IGR: impaired fasting glucose and/or impaired glucose 
tolerance).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Forty women were randomly assigned to receive SITA (100 mg 
qd), MET (850 mg bid) or MET+SITA (50 + 850 mg bid) for 16 weeks. A 75 g oral 
glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and +125 mg/dL hyperglycaemic clamp followed by 
5 g i.v. L-arginine were performed at baseline and end of study. The primary 
outcome of the study was the mean change in arginine-stimulated insulin 
secretion rate during the hyperglycaemic clamp test from baseline to 16-week 
therapy.
RESULTS: At week 16, body mass index declined in all groups (-1.2 ± 0.2 kg/m2 ; 
P < 0.05). MET+SITA gave a greater increase of first phase(2-10 min) insulin 
secretion and arginine-stimulated response (720.3 ± 299.0 to 
995.5 ± 370.3 pmol/L and 3.2 ± 0.6 to 4.8 ± 1.0 pmoL/min, respectively, both 
P < 0.05) compared with MET and SITA. Similarly, MET+SITA was more effective in 
increasing OGTT-based glucose sensitivity (55.7 ± 11.3 to 108 ± 56.2 pmol x 
min-1 m-2 x mM-1 ; P = 0.04) and insulin-stimulated glucose disposal (M/I: 
2.2 ± 0.5 to 4.6 ± 1.3 mg/kg/min÷μIU/min/ml; P = 0.04; Matsuda index [SI]: 
3.1 ± 0.4 to 5.7 ± 1.1; P = 0.03) compared with either MET or SITA. Disposition 
index (ISSI-2) increased with MET+SITA and SITA (both P < 0.05), while no 
significant change was observed in MET. Among MET+SITA women, 33% reverted to 
normal glucose tolerance (NGT) compared with 14% with MET and 7% with SITA 
(P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: This study shows that MET+SITA is superior to SITA and MET 
monotherapy regarding beta-cell function and insulin sensitivity improvement in 
IGR women with previous GDM, and may offer a potential pharmacologic 
intervention to reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes in this high-risk population.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/dom.13940
PMID: 31802616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
