1. Cancer Med. 2020 Feb;9(3):1092-1103. doi: 10.1002/cam4.2729. Epub 2019 Dec 6.

Jupiter microtubule-associated homolog 1 (JPT1): A predictive and 
pharmacodynamic biomarker of metformin response in endometrial cancers.

Bateman NW(1)(2)(3), Teng PN(1)(3), Hope E(1), Hood BL(1)(3), Oliver J(1)(3), Ao 
W(1)(3), Zhou M(4), Wang G(1)(3), Tommarello D(1)(3), Wilson K(1)(3), Litzy 
T(1)(3), Conrads KA(1)(3), Hamilton CA(1)(2), Darcy KM(1)(2)(3), Casablanca 
Y(1)(2), Maxwell GL(1)(2)(4), Bae-Jump V(5), Conrads TP(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Gynecologic Cancer Center of Excellence, Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, Uniformed Services University and Walter Reed National Military 
Medical Center, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(2)The John P. Murtha Cancer Center, Uniformed Services University and Walter 
Reed National Military Medical Center, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(3)Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine, Inc., 
Bethesda, MD, USA.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Inova Fairfax Medical Campus, Falls 
Church, VA, USA.
(5)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Division of Gynecologic 
Oncology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.

Preoperative use of metformin in obese women with endometrioid endometrial 
cancer (EEC) reduces tumor proliferation and inhibits the mammalian target of 
rapamycin pathway, though is only effective in select cases. This study sought 
to identify a predictive and/or pharmacodynamic proteomic signature of metformin 
response to tailor its pharmacologic use. Matched pre- and 
post-metformin-treated tumor tissues from a recently completed preoperative 
window trial of metformin in EEC patients (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01911247) were 
analyzed by mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomic and immunohistochemical 
analyses. Jupiter microtubule-associated homolog 1 (JPT1) was significantly 
elevated in metformin responders (n = 13) vs nonresponders (n = 7), and found to 
decrease in abundance in metformin responders following treatment; observations 
that were verified by immunohistochemical staining for JPT1. Metformin response 
and loss of JPT1 were assessed in RL95-2 and ACI-181 endometrial cancer (EC) 
cell lines. We further identified that silencing of JPT1 abundance does not 
alter cellular response to metformin or basal cell proliferation, but that JPT1 
abundance does decrease in response to metformin treatment in RL95-2 and ACI-181 
EC cell lines. These data suggest that JPT1 represents a predictive and 
pharmacodynamic biomarker of metformin response that, if validated in larger 
patient populations, may enable preoperative EEC patient stratification to 
metformin treatment and the ability to monitor patient response.

© 2019 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.2729
PMCID: PMC6997075
PMID: 31808620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflict of interest.
