1. Postgrad Med. 2020 Jan;132(1):80-90. doi: 10.1080/00325481.2019.1701823. Epub 
2020 Jan 3.

New discoveries for an old drug: a review of recent olanzapine research.

Meftah AM(1)(2), Deckler E(1)(3), Citrome L(4), Kantrowitz JT(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Schizophrenia Research, Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research, 
Orangeburg, NY, USA.
(3)University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY, USA.

Objective: Based on a substantial literature, olanzapine appears to be one of 
the most efficacious antipsychotics marketed in the United States, with only 
clozapine clearly more advantageous. However, olanzapine is marred by an equally 
substantial literature demonstrating a metabolic burden of olanzapine, 
particularly for weight gain. With the publication of successful strategies to 
limit olanzapine induced weight gain, a reassessment of the clinical utility of 
olanzapine appears warranted. The purpose of this paper is to review recent 
evidence for olanzapine, highlighting use in both schizophrenia and other 
conditions, safety and supporting the use of olanzapine above 20 mg/day, 
focusing on studies published since our previous reviews in 2008 and 2009.Data 
Sources: The US National Library of Medicine's PubMed resource 
(https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/) was searched using the text word 
'olanzapine' for all English-language articles published between 2008 to July 
2019, inclusive with a specific focus on double-blind randomized controlled 
trials and meta-analyses. In addition, we examined the review articles for other 
reports of interest that may have been missed by our initial search.Data 
Extraction: The studies were evaluated based on efficacy and safety 
data.Results: Use of olanzapine may be decreasing but remains common overall. 
Evidence continues to support both the relative efficacy advantage and weight 
gain/metabolic disadvantages of olanzapine in schizophrenia, and recent research 
supports olanzapine's use in treating anorexia nervosa and chemotherapy-induced 
nausea. The evidence for high dose olanzapine dosages >20 mg remains limited. 
Non-pharmacological options, such as dietary counseling and exercise, appear to 
be efficacious in addressing antipsychotic-induced weight gain. Topiramate, 
metformin and possibly the olanzapine-samidorphan combination also appear 
helpful.Conclusions: Olanzapine remains a useful antipsychotic, but requires 
with careful monitoring. Further research is needed to compare the different 
options available to mitigate olanzapine-induced weight gain and to evaluate 
potential synergism between pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments.

DOI: 10.1080/00325481.2019.1701823
PMID: 31813311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
