1. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2020 Apr;47(4):599-608. doi: 
10.1111/1440-1681.13226. Epub 2020 Jan 22.

Metformin alleviates renal injury in diabetic rats by inducing Sirt1/FoxO1 
autophagic signal axis.

Xu J(1), Liu LQ(2), Xu LL(1), Xing Y(1), Ye S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, The First Affiliated Hospital of USTC, Division 
of Life Sciences and Medicine, University of Science and Technology of China, 
Hefei, Anhui, China.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital of USTC, Division of 
Life Sciences and Medicine, University of Science and Technology of China, 
Hefei, Anhui, China.

Erratum in
    Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2020 Nov;47(11):1879.

Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is the major microvascular complication of diabetes 
mellitus and the most important cause of end-stage renal disease worldwide. 
Metformin is the preferred oral hypoglycaemic drug for type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(T2DM). Recent studies have shown that besides lowering blood glucose, metformin 
also has protective effects on renal function, but its mechanism is not clear. 
In this study, we established a diabetic rat model by high-fat feeding combined 
with intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin. Their changes of renal 
function, oxidative stress, histopathology and structure, and autophagy were 
observed after 8 weeks of metformin treatment at different dose. Sirt1 inhibitor 
EX527 and metformin were used to observe whether the protective effect of 
metformin on DN kidney was achieved through the Sirt1/FoxO1 autophagic 
signalling pathway. The results showed that metformin could protect renal 
function by up-regulating autophagy level, alleviating oxidative stress level of 
renal tissue and pathological and structural changes of glomeruli, and 
inhibiting the expression of extracellular matrix. Sirt1 inhibitor could block 
the protective effect of metformin on kidney of diabetic rats, suggesting that 
metformin could alleviate kidney injury in diabetic rats by inducing Sirt1/FoxO1 
autophagy signal axis. So metformin could alleviate renal injury in diabetic 
rats, which may be achieved by regulating Sirt1/FoxO1 autophagic signalling 
pathway and inducing renal autophagy.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1440-1681.13226
PMID: 31821581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
