1. Food Funct. 2020 Jan 29;11(1):392-403. doi: 10.1039/c9fo01326a.

Beneficial effects of combination therapy of phloretin and metformin in 
streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats and improved insulin sensitivity in vitro.

Shen X (1), Wang L , Zhou N , Gai S , Liu X , Zhang S .

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, The Air Force Medical 
University, No.169 Changle West Road, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710032, China. 
xyliu0427@163.com syzhang@fmmu.com.

The GLUT4 and PI3K/AKT signaling pathways are the key sensors of energy status 
and they regulate glucose and lipid metabolism. Phloretin activates the PI3K/AKT 
pathway by promoting GLUT4 translocation and expression, thereby improving 
glucose consumption and tolerance. As metformin can regulate glucose metabolism, 
we hypothesized that phloretin can amplify its gluco-regulatory effects. Male 
Sprague Dawley rats were fed with a high-fat and high-sugar diet for 8 weeks and 
injected with a low dose of streptozotocin to induce type 2 diabetes. The 
diabetic rats were randomized to receive phloretin (100 mg kg-1 d-1), metformin 
(250 mg kg-1 d-1), or phloretin + metformin via oral gavage for another 4 weeks. 
Random blood glucose, serum insulin, free fatty acid, total cholesterol, 
triglyceride, and low-density lipoprotein levels were detected in type 2 
diabetic rats. Hematoxylin-eosin and Oil Red O staining were used to observe the 
pathological changes in the liver, pancreas, and adipose tissues of type 2 
diabetic rats. The expression levels of IRS-1, PI3K, P-AKT, and GLUT4 in 
skeletal muscle were detected using western blotting. Phloretin plus metformin 
improved fasting blood glucose levels, glucose tolerance, and insulin 
sensitivity in type 2 diabetic rats. In addition, this combination reduced lipid 
accumulation, improved the pathological changes in the liver, pancreas, and 
adipose tissue, and increased IRS-1, PI3K, P-AKT, and GLUT4 expression in 
skeletal muscle and the liver of type 2 diabetic rats. Thus, phloretin can be 
used in a potential combination therapy with metformin for the prevention and 
rescue of type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1039/c9fo01326a
PMID: 31821397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
