1. Herz. 2020 Feb;45(1):39-49. doi: 10.1007/s00059-019-04873-3.

[Primary prevention of coronary heart disease : Evidence-based drug treatment].

[Article in German]

Mühleck F(1), Laufs U(2).

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Kardiologie, Universitätsklinikum Leipzig, 
Liebigstraße 20, 04103, Leipzig, Deutschland. 
Franziska.muehleck@uniklinik-leipzig.de.
(2)Klinik und Poliklinik für Kardiologie, Universitätsklinikum Leipzig, 
Liebigstraße 20, 04103, Leipzig, Deutschland.

Erratum in
    Herz. 2020 Feb 7;:

Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most frequent cause of morbidity and 
mortality worldwide. Lifestyle modifications and drug treatment of 
cardiovascular risk factors are able to effectively prevent CAD. The basis of 
prevention is the assessment of the individual cardiovascular risk, e.g. by 
using a validated risk score. Documented evidence for prevention of CAD is 
available for the control of hypertension using angiotensin-converting enzyme 
(ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARB) and calcium antagonists, 
for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia using statins, ezetimibe and 
proprotein convertase subtilisin-kexin type 9 (PCSK-9) inhibitors and for the 
treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus with metformin, sodium-glucose transporter 
2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors and glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) agonists. There is no 
positive benefit-risk ratio for people with a low risk in the use of 
acetylsalicylic acid in primary prevention, in contrast to the positive 
recommendations for secondary prevention. There is no evidence for the efficacy 
of primary prevention with beta blockers, dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) 
inhibitors, glitazones, sulfonylureas or insulin. Similarly, there is no 
evidence for drug treatment of obesity, any supplementation with vitamins or 
hormone preparations or omega‑3 fatty acids.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-019-04873-3
PMID: 31822926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
