1. Ann Hepatol. 2020 May-Jun;19(3):232-237. doi: 10.1016/j.aohep.2019.10.005.
Epub  2019 Nov 28.

Metformin in the prevention of hepatocellular carcinoma in diabetic patients: A 
systematic review.

Cunha V(1), Cotrim HP(2), Rocha R(3), Carvalho K(1), Lins-Kusterer L(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Federal University of Bahia, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil.
(2)School of Medicine, Federal University of Bahia, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil. 
Electronic address: helmacotrim@gmail.com.
(3)School of Nutrition, Federal University of Bahia, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil.

.: Preventive effect of metformin in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is not 
entirely clear. We aimed to evaluate the use of metformin as a protective factor 
of HCC in diabetic patients. .: We carried out an electronic search on 
PUBMED/MEDLINE, Web of Science and LILACS databases, with no limit of date, from 
April 2017 to January 2019. Eligible studies included cohort and case-control 
studies. We adressed data about the use of metformin on the risk of HCC 
development. Two independent reviewers extracted the data. We evaluated the 
quality of studies by using the Newcastle-Ottawa scale and carried out a 
meta-analysis using random-effects models. .: The electronic searches identified 
747 studies. After reading abstracts and titles, we excluded 327 duplicated 
papers and 383 irrelevant references. Eight studies were selected; four 
case-control and four cohort studies. All studies have observed that the therapy 
with metformin was associated with a lower risk of HCC, compared with 
non-metformin therapy. Five articles reported that patients treated with 
insulin, or insulin secretagogues, presented increased risk of HCC compared to 
those treated with metformin. One study found that not only statin but also 
aspirin reduced the risk of HCC, if combined with metformin. A meta-analysis, 
using the case-control studies, found a combined Odds Ratio of 0.468; 95% CI 
0.275-0.799 for the association between HCC and the use of metformin. .: The use 
of metformin was associated with a reduced risk of HCC, and it may be a relevant 
factor for preventing HCC in diabetic patients.

Copyright © 2019 Fundación Clínica Médica Sur, A.C. Published by Elsevier 
España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aohep.2019.10.005
PMID: 31836424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
