1. Cancer Med. 2020 Feb;9(3):1141-1151. doi: 10.1002/cam4.2723. Epub 2019 Dec 12.

Combination of aloin and metformin enhances the antitumor effect by inhibiting 
the growth and invasion and inducing apoptosis and autophagy in hepatocellular 
carcinoma through PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway.

Sun R(1), Zhai R(2), Ma C(1), Miao W(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Jining First People 's Hospital, Jining, 
Shandong, China.
(2)Department of Cancer Center, Tumor Center Shandong Sunshine Hospital, 
Weifang, Shandong, China.
(3)Department of Health Care, Jining First People's Hospital, Jining, Shandong, 
China.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a devastating and highly metastatic cancer 
worldwide. Metformin (MET) is the priority drug for treatment of type 2 
diabetes; however, it possesses multiple biological effects like anticancer and 
hepatoprotective activity. Herein, we examined the effects of aloin (barbaloin) 
and MET as well as combination treatment in HCC cell line in vitro and in vivo. 
As a result, aloin and MET alone exhibited inhibitory effects on proliferation 
and invasion of HepG2 and Bel-7402 cells. Specially, combination treatment of 
aloin and MET showed enhanced inhibitory effects in vitro. Aloin and MET alone 
induced apoptosis and autophagy in vitro. Similarly, aloin and MET cooperated to 
promote apoptosis and autophagy in HepG2 and Bel-7402 cells. In the HepG2 
xenograft models, aloin in combination with MET confine tumor growth and 
facilitate apoptosis and autophagy. Both the in vitro and in vivo results showed 
that aloin and MET alone as well as combination treatment activated the 
PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. Overall, our research demonstrated that the concomitant 
treatment with aloin and MET enhances the antitumor effect by inhibiting the 
growth and invasion as well as inducing apoptosis and autophagy in HCC through 
PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway.

Â© 2019 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.2723
PMCID: PMC6997051
PMID: 31830378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
