1. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2020 Jun;72(6):896-902. doi: 10.1002/art.41190. Epub 2020
 May 10.

Insulin-Resistant Pathways Are Associated With Disease Activity in Rheumatoid 
Arthritis and Are Subject to Disease Modification Through Metabolic 
Reprogramming: A Potential Novel Therapeutic Approach.

Gallagher L(1), Cregan S(1), Biniecka M(2), Cunningham C(3), Veale DJ(2), Kane 
DJ(1), Fearon U(3), Mullan RH(1).

Author information:
(1)Trinity College Dublin and Tallaght Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)St. Vincent's University Hospital, University College Dublin, Dublin, 
Ireland.
(3)Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate a role for insulin-resistant pathways in inflammation 
and therapeutic targeting for disease modification in rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: RA disease activity and cardiovascular risk factors, including insulin 
resistance and body mass index (BMI), were assessed in an Irish RA cohort. 
Glucose transporter 1 (GLUT-1) and GLUT-4 activity in RA and osteoarthritis (OA) 
synovial tissue was examined using immunohistochemistry. Spontaneous release of 
proinflammatory mediators from ex vivo RA synovial explants and primary synovial 
fibroblast (SF) cell culture supernatants was quantified by enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay. Phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinase (p-AMPK) and 
GLUT-1 protein expression was analyzed by Western blotting. Cellular glycolytic 
and oxidative phosphorylation was assessed using extracellular flux analysis.
RESULTS: Insulin resistance was independently associated with both BMI 
(unstandardized coefficient B 0.113 [95% confidence interval (95% CI) 
0.059-0.167]; P < 0.001) (n = 61) and swollen joint count in 28 joints (SJC28) 
(B 0.114 [95% CI 0.032-0.197]; P = 0.008) (n = 61). Increased GLUT-1 expression 
in RA synovium (n = 26) versus OA synovium (n = 16) was demonstrated (P = 
0.0003), with increased expression in the lining, sublining, and vascular 
regions. In contrast, decreased GLUT-4 expression in the RA lining layer (n = 
21) versus the OA lining layer (n = 8) was observed (P = 0.0358). Decreased 
GLUT-1 protein expression was observed in parallel with increased p-AMPK protein 
expression in SFs in the presence of metformin (n = 4). Metformin increased 
glycolytic activity and decreased oxidative phosphorylation in RASFs (n = 7) (P 
< 0.05 for both). Metformin or aminoimidazole carboxamide ribonucleotide 
presence decreased spontaneous production of interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-8, and 
monocyte chemotactic protein 1 in RA synovial explants and SFs (n = 5-7).
CONCLUSION: Insulin resistance is significantly associated with BMI and 
synovitis in RA, suggesting distinct interplay between glucose availability and 
inflammation in RA. Furthermore, the effect of metformin on proinflammatory 
mechanisms suggests a role for AMPK-modifying compounds in the treatment of RA.

Â© 2019, American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/art.41190
PMID: 31840936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
