1. J Sep Sci. 2020 Mar;43(5):886-895. doi: 10.1002/jssc.201900509. Epub 2020 Jan 
15.

Validation of a liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry 
method for the determination of drugs in wastewater using a three-phase solvent 
system.

Pascale R(1), Bianco G(2), Coviello D(2), Cristina Lafiosca M(2), Masi S(1), 
Mancini IM(1), Bufo SA(2)(3), Scrano L(4), Caniani D(1).

Author information:
(1)Scuola di Ingegneria, Università degli Studi della Basilicata, Potenza, 
Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Scienze, Università degli Studi della Basilicata, Potenza, 
Italy.
(3)Department of Geography, Environmental Management & Energy Studies, 
University of Johannesburg, South Africa.
(4)Dipartimento delle Culture Europee e del Mediterraneo, Arch., Ambiente, 
Patrimoni Culturali, Università degli Studi della Basilicata, Matera, Italy.

Pharmaceuticals constitute one of the most important emerging classes of 
environmental pollutants. A three-phase solvent system of water, water 
containing 0.1% of formic acid and acetonitrile was successfully used to 
separate, by liquid chromatography with mass spectrometry (LC-MS), 
polarity-matched pharmaceuticals, that is, carbamazepine, clarithromycin, and 
erythromycin, as well as amoxicillin and metformin. Despite of polarity 
similarities, these pharmaceuticals were completely resolved in the analytical 
run time of 15 min. The optimized three-phase solvent system based-method was 
validated for the simultaneous analysis of six matched-polarity pharmaceuticals 
in wastewater samples. Good linearity (coefficient of determination more than 
0.993) and precision (relative standard deviation less than 15.66%) were 
achieved. Recovery of analytes from the wastewater was between 0.70 and 1.18. 
Limits of detections ranged from 0.0001 to 0.5114 µg/L. No significant matrix 
effect, evaluated by post extraction addition, was observed in the electrospray 
ionization (ESI) source. Then, this methodology has been successfully applied to 
environmental study of pharmaceutical residues occurring in influent and 
effluent wastewater samples, from the main wastewater treatment plant in Potenza 
(Basilicata, Southern Italy).

© 2019 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/jssc.201900509
PMID: 31849166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
