1. Virulence. 2020 Dec;11(1):39-48. doi: 10.1080/21505594.2019.1706305.

Metformin promotes innate immunity through a conserved PMK-1/p38 MAPK pathway.

Xiao Y(1)(2), Liu F(3), Li S(1)(2), Jiang N(1)(2), Yu C(1)(2), Zhu X(1)(3), Qin 
Y(1)(2), Hui J(1)(2), Meng L(1)(2), Song C(1)(2), Li XF(1)(3), Liu Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Guizhou Provincial College-based Key Lab for Tumor Prevention and Treatment 
with Distinctive Medicines, Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, Guizhou, China.
(2)Research Center for Medicine & Biology, Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, 
Guizhou, China.
(3)College of Basic Medicine, Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, Guizhou, China.

Metformin, as the first-line oral drug for type 2 diabetes, has proven benefits 
against aging, cancer and cardiovascular diseases. But the influence of 
metformin to the immune response and its molecular mechanisms remain obscure. 
Metformin increases resistance to not only the Gram-negative pathogens 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Salmonella enterica but also the Gram-positive 
pathogens Enterococcus faecalis and Staphylococcus aureus. Meanwhile, metformin 
protects the animals from the infection by enhancing the tolerance to the 
pathogen infection rather than by reducing the bacterial burden. Through the 
screening of classical immune pathways in C. elegans, we find metformin enhances 
innate immunity through p38 MAPK pathway. Furthermore, activated p38/PMK-1 by 
metformin acts on the intestine for innate immune response. In addition, 
metformin-treated mice have increased resistance to P. aeruginosa PA14 infection 
and significantly increased the levels of active PMK-1. Therefore, promoted 
p38/PMK-1-mediated innate immunity by metformin is conserved from worms to 
mammals. Our work provides a conserved mechanism by which metformin enhances 
immune response and boosts its therapeutic application in the treatment of 
pathogen infection.

DOI: 10.1080/21505594.2019.1706305
PMCID: PMC6961722
PMID: 31851866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
