1. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2020 Feb;26(2):143-153. doi:
10.18553/jmcp.2019.19035.  Epub 2019 Dec 19.

Evaluation of the Short-Term Cost-Effectiveness of IDegLira Versus Basal Insulin 
and Basal-Bolus Therapy in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Based on Attainment of 
Clinically Relevant Treatment Targets.

Cannon AJ(1), Bargiota A(2), Billings L(3), Hunt B(4), Leiter LA(5), Malkin 
S(4), Mocarski M(6), Ranthe MF(7), Schiffman A(6), Doshi A(8).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology, Jefferson Health NJ, Voorhees, New Jersey.
(2)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolic Diseases, University Hospital of 
Larissa, Larissa, Greece.
(3)NorthShore University HealthSystem, Skokie, Illinois, and University of 
Chicago Pritzker School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois.
(4)Ossian Health Economics and Communications, Basel, Switzerland.
(5)Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St Michael's Hospital, University of 
Toronto, Ontario.
(6)Novo Nordisk, Plainsboro, New Jersey.
(7)Novo Nordisk A/S, Søborg, Denmark.
(8)PrimeCare Medical Group, Houston, Texas.

BACKGROUND: Effective glycemic control can reduce the risk of complications and 
their related costs in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D). Many patients fail 
to reach hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) ≤ 6.5% or < 7.0%, often due to adverse effects 
of treatment, such as hypoglycemia and weight gain. Glycemic targets should be 
individualized and consider multiple factors, including the risk of adverse 
events and the patient's characteristics and comorbid conditions.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the odds and annual cost of achieving treatment targets, 
which incorporate HbA1c targets of < 7.5%, < 8.0%, and ≤ 9.0%, with insulin 
degludec/liraglutide (IDegLira) versus basal insulin and basal-bolus therapy.
METHODS: This is a post hoc analysis of the DUAL V and DUAL VII 26-week trials, 
which randomized patients with T2D uncontrolled (HbA1c 7%-10%) on insulin 
glargine 100 units/mL (IGlar U100) and metformin to IDegLira or continued IGlar 
U100 titration (DUAL V) or IGlar U100 + insulin aspart (DUAL VII), all with 
metformin. Proportions of patients achieving HbA1c targets (< 7.5%, < 8.0%, and 
≤ 9.0%) by the end of trial were assessed via 3 outcomes: alone, without either 
hypoglycemia or weight gain (double composite outcome), or without a combination 
of hypoglycemia and weight gain (triple composite outcome). The cost per patient 
achieving the triple composite outcome at each HbA1c target (< 7.5%, < 8.0%, and 
≤ 9.0%) was calculated by dividing the annual cost of treatment by the 
proportion of patients achieving the target. This short-term (1-year) 
cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted from the perspective of a U.S. health 
care payer.
RESULTS: More patients achieved HbA1c < 7.5% (P < 0.0001) and < 8.0% (P = 
0.0003), and a similar percentage achieved HbA1c ≤ 9.0% with IDegLira versus 
IGlar U100 (DUAL V). Similar proportions of patients achieved all 3 HbA1c 
targets with IDegLira compared with basal-bolus therapy (DUAL VII). The odds of 
achieving double or triple composite outcomes were significantly higher for 
IDegLira versus IGlar U100 or basal-bolus for all 3 HbA1c targets (P < 0.0001 in 
each case) in both trials. For each $1 spent on IDegLira, the equivalent annual 
costs per patient to achieve HbA1c targets of < 7.5%, < 8.0%, or ≤ 9.0% without 
hypoglycemia and without weight gain were $2.43, $2.10, and $2.05, respectively, 
for IGlar U100 and $6.33, $5.80, and $6.06, respectively, for basal-bolus 
therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on data from DUAL V and DUAL VII, this analysis showed that a 
greater or similar proportion of patients with T2D reached HbA1c targets with 
IDegLira compared with IGlar U100/basal-bolus therapy. Odds of achieving double 
or triple composite outcomes of HbA1c reduction without hypoglycemia and/or 
without weight gain were greatest for IDegLira. Short-term cost analyses based 
on the triple composite outcomes suggest that IDegLira is a cost-effective 
treatment option in the United States compared with either uptitration of IGlar 
U100 or basal-bolus therapy.
DISCLOSURES: This study was supported by Novo Nordisk A/S. The analysis was 
based on the DUAL V (NCT01952145) and DUAL VII (NCT02420262) trials, which were 
funded and conducted by Novo Nordisk. This post hoc analysis was conceived and 
interpreted by the authors and drafted with medical writing support that was 
funded by Novo Nordisk. Novo Nordisk also reviewed the manuscript for medical 
accuracy. Hunt and Malkin are employees of Ossian Health Economics and 
Communications, which received consulting fees from Novo Nordisk during the 
conduct of this study and has received consulting fees from Novo Nordisk, 
unrelated to this study. Mocarski, Ranthe, and Schiffman are employees of Novo 
Nordisk and Novo Nordisk A/S. Cannon has received speaker fees/honoraria from 
Abbvie, Amgen, and Janssen; speaker fees from Novo Nordisk; and has stock 
ownership in Novo Nordisk. Bargiota has received speaker fees/honoraria from 
AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly, MSD, Novo Nordisk, Sanofi, Boehringer Ingelheim, and 
Novartis. Billings has received personal fees from Novo Nordisk, Sanofi, and 
Dexcom, unrelated to this study. Leiter reports grants and personal fees from 
AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, Janssen, Merck, Novo Nordisk, 
Sanofi, Servier, and GSK, unrelated to this study. Doshi has no relevant 
conflicts of interest to disclose. Parts of this study were presented as a 
poster at the AMCP Managed Care & Specialty Pharmacy Annual Meeting; April 
23-26, 2018; Boston, MA.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2019.19035
PMCID: PMC10391176
PMID: 31856636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This study was supported by Novo Nordisk A/S. 
The analysis was based on the DUAL V (NCT01952145) and DUAL VII (NCT02420262) 
trials, which were funded and conducted by Novo Nordisk. This post hoc analysis 
was conceived and interpreted by the authors and drafted with medical writing 
support that was funded by Novo Nordisk. Novo Nordisk also reviewed the 
manuscript for medical accuracy. Hunt and Malkin are employees of Ossian Health 
Economics and Communications, which received consulting fees from Novo Nordisk 
during the conduct of this study and has received consulting fees from Novo 
Nordisk, unrelated to this study. Mocarski, Ranthe, and Schiffman are employees 
of Novo Nordisk and Novo Nordisk A/S. Cannon has received speaker fees/honoraria 
from Abbvie, Amgen, and Janssen; speaker fees from Novo Nordisk; and has stock 
ownership in Novo Nordisk. Bargiota has received speaker fees/honoraria from 
AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly, MSD, Novo Nordisk, Sanofi, Boehringer Ingelheim, and 
Novartis. Billings has received personal fees from Novo Nordisk, Sanofi, and 
Dexcom, unrelated to this study. Leiter reports grants and personal fees from 
AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, Janssen, Merck, Novo Nordisk, 
Sanofi, Servier, and GSK, unrelated to this study. Doshi has no relevant 
conflicts of interest to disclose. Parts of this study were presented as a 
poster at the AMCP Managed Care & Specialty Pharmacy Annual Meeting; April 
23-26, 2018; Boston, MA.
