1. Burns. 2020 Feb;46(1):19-32. doi: 10.1016/j.burns.2018.03.009. Epub 2019 Dec
15.

Anabolic and anticatabolic agents used in burn care: What is known and what is 
yet to be learned.

Gus EI(1), Shahrokhi S(2), Jeschke MG(3).

Author information:
(1)Ross Tilley Burn Centre, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University of 
Toronto, 2075 Bayview Avenue, D704, Toronto, ON M4N 3M5, Canada.
(2)Ross Tilley Burn Centre, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University of 
Toronto, 2075 Bayview Avenue, D704, Toronto, ON M4N 3M5, Canada; Division of 
Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, 
Canada.
(3)Ross Tilley Burn Centre, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University of 
Toronto, 2075 Bayview Avenue, D704, Toronto, ON M4N 3M5, Canada; Division of 
Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, 
Canada; Department of Immunology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; 
Sunnybrook Research Institute, Toronto, ON, Canada. Electronic address: 
marc.jeschke@sunnybrook.ca.

Major thermal injury induces profound metabolic derangements secondary to an 
inflammatory "stress-induced" hormonal environment. Several pharmacological 
interventions have been tested in an effort to halt the hypermetabolic response 
to severe burns. Insulin, insulin growth factor 1, insulin growth factor binding 
protein 3, metformin, human growth hormone, thyroid hormones, testosterone, 
oxandrolone, and propranolol, among others, have been proposed to have anabolic 
or anticatabolic effects. The aim of this broad analysis of pharmacological 
interventions was to raise awareness of treatment options and to help 
establishing directions for future clinical research efforts. A PubMed search 
was conducted on the anabolic and anticatabolic agents used in burn care. One 
hundred and thirty-five human studies published between 1999 and 2017 were 
included in this review. The pharmacological properties, rationale for the 
treatments, efficacy considerations and side effect profiles are summarized in 
the article. Many of the drugs tested for investigational purposes in the 
severely thermally injured are not yet gold-standard therapies in spite of their 
potential benefit. Propranolol and oxandrolone have shown great promise but 
further evidence is still needed to clarify their potential use for anabolic and 
anticatabolic purposes.

Copyright Â© 2018 Elsevier Ltd and ISBI. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.burns.2018.03.009
PMCID: PMC7012751
PMID: 31852612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DECLARATION OF INTERESTS EG and SS declare no 
competing interests. MJ received grants from National Institutes of Health, 
Canadian Institutes of Health Research and CFI Leaders Opportunity Fund. None of 
the authors had any type of financial gain or relationship to pharmaceutical 
companies.
