1. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2019 Dec 20;53(1):e8652. doi: 10.1590/1414-431X20198652. 
eCollection 2020.

Use of flash glucose-sensing technology in patients with type 2 diabetes treated 
with liraglutide combined with CSII: a pilot study.

Yao MY(1)(2), Li LQ(1), Ma JX(1), Xue P(1), Li YK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, The Third Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Baoding NO.1 Central Hospital, Baoding, Hebei, 
China.

Glycemic variability (GV) may be linked to the development of diabetic 
complications by inducing inflammation, oxidative stress, and endothelial 
dysfunction. Flash glucose monitoring (FGM) provides a novel method of 
continuously monitoring interstitial glucose levels for up to 14 days. This 
study randomly assigned poorly controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus patients 
treated with metformin and multiple daily injections of insulin (n=60) to either 
continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) treatment or CSII in combination 
with liraglutide (CSII+Lira) treatment for 14 days during hospitalization. GV 
was assessed using a FGM system; weight and cardiometabolic biomarkers were also 
evaluated. The coefficient of variation was significantly reduced in the 
CSII+Lira group (P<0.001), while no significant change was observed in the CSII 
group. The changes differed significantly between the two groups in mean 
amplitude of glycemic excursions (P=0.004), standard deviation (P=0.006), and 
the percentage of time in the target range (4-10 mmol/L, P=0.005 and >10 mmol/L, 
P=0.028). The changes in mean of daily differences, interquartile range, and 
percentage of time in hypoglycemia (<3.3 mmol/L) and hyperglycemia (>13.9 
mmol/L) identified by FGM showed no difference. Treatment with liraglutide 
increased serum adiponectin [33.5 (3.5, 47.7) pg/mL, P=0.003] and heme 
oxygenase-1 levels [0.4 (-0.0, 1.8) ng/mL, P=0.001] and reduced serum leptin 
levels [-2.8 (3.9) pg/mL, P<0.001]. Adding the glucagon-like peptide-1 analog 
liraglutide improved GV, weight, and some cardiometabolic risk markers. The FGM 
system is, therefore, shown to be a novel and useful method for glucose 
monitoring.

DOI: 10.1590/1414-431X20198652
PMCID: PMC6915907
PMID: 31859911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
