1. Exp Ther Med. 2020 Jan;19(1):467-472. doi: 10.3892/etm.2019.8224. Epub 2019
Nov  20.

Effects of insulin combined with metformin on serum cystatin C, homocysteine and 
maternal and neonatal outcomes in pregnant women with gestational diabetes 
mellitus.

Zheng J(1), Xu J(2), Zhang Y(1), Zhou N(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Liaocheng Third People's Hospital, 
Liaocheng, Shandong 252000, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Obstetrics, Tengzhou Central People's Hospital, Tengzhou, 
Shandong 277500, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Health Care, Jinan Central Hospital, Jinan, Shandong 250013, 
P.R. China.

Effects of insulin combined with metformin on serum cystatin C (Cys C), 
homocysteine (Hcy) and maternal and neonatal outcomes in pregnant women with 
gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) were investigated. In total, 80 cases of 
pregnant women diagnosed with GDM in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology 
of Liaocheng Third People's Hospital from July 2015 to July 2017 were selected 
and divided into a study group (42 cases) and a control group (38 cases). The 
study group was treated with insulin combined with metformin, and the control 
group was treated with insulin. Fasting blood glucose (FBG) and postprandial 
blood glucose after 2 h (2hPG) of the two groups were compared before and after 
treatment. Levels of serum Cys C, Hcy, urinary protein (UmAlb), postpartum 
maternal outcomes and adverse reactions during pregnancy were compared in the 
two groups before and after treatment. After treatment, the level of FBG and 
2hPG in the control group was higher than that in the treatment group (P<0.05). 
After treatment, the level of serum Cys C and Hcy in both groups were lower than 
that before the treatment, and the level in the study group was lower than that 
in the control group (P<0.05). The total incidence of neonatal adverse outcomes 
and the number of adverse pregnancies in GDM patients in the study group were 
significantly lower than those in the control group (P<0.05). There were no 
significant differences in adverse reactions during pregnancy between the two 
groups (P>0.05). In conclusion, insulin combined with metformin is more 
effective than insulin alone in reducing serum Cys C and Hcy levels, with 
significant effect on the improvement of maternal and neonatal outcomes.

Copyright: Â© Zheng et al.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2019.8224
PMCID: PMC6909788
PMID: 31853319
