1. J Pharmacokinet Pharmacodyn. 2020 Feb;47(1):19-45. doi: 
10.1007/s10928-019-09666-z. Epub 2019 Dec 21.

Comparison of the gamma-Pareto convolution with conventional methods of 
characterising metformin pharmacokinetics in dogs.

Wesolowski CA(1), Wanasundara SN(2), Babyn PS(2), Alcorn J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Imaging, Royal University Hospital, College of 
Medicine, University of Saskatchewan, 103 Hospital Drive, Saskatoon, SK, S7N 
0W8, Canada. carl.wesolowski@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Medical Imaging, Royal University Hospital, College of 
Medicine, University of Saskatchewan, 103 Hospital Drive, Saskatoon, SK, S7N 
0W8, Canada.
(3)College of Pharmacy and Nutrition, University of Saskatchewan, 104 Clinic 
Place, Saskatoon, SK, S7N 2Z4, Canada.

A model was developed for long term metformin tissue retention based upon 
temporally inclusive models of serum/plasma concentration ([Formula: see text]) 
having power function tails called the gamma-Pareto type I convolution (GPC) 
model and was contrasted with biexponential (E2) and noncompartmental (NC) 
metformin models. GPC models of [Formula: see text] have a peripheral venous 
first arrival of drug-times parameter, early [Formula: see text] peaks and very 
slow washouts of [Formula: see text]. The GPC, E2 and NC models were applied to 
a total of 148 serum samples drawn from 20 min to 72 h following bolus 
intravenous metformin in seven healthy mongrel dogs. The GPC model was used to 
calculate area under the curve (AUC), clearance ([Formula: see text]), and 
functions of time, f(t), for drug mass remaining (M), apparent volume of 
distribution ([Formula: see text]), as well as [Formula: see text] for [Formula: 
see text], [Formula: see text] and [Formula: see text]. The GPC models of 
[Formula: see text] yielded metformin [Formula: see text]-values that were 84.8% 
of total renal plasma flow (RPF) as estimated from meta-analysis. The GPC 
[Formula: see text]-values were significantly less than the corresponding NC and 
E2 [Formula: see text]-values of 104.7% and 123.7% of RPF, respectively. The GPC 
plasma/serum only model predicted 78.9% drug [Formula: see text] average urinary 
recovery at 72 h; similar to prior human urine drug [Formula: see text] 
collection results. The GPC model [Formula: see text] of [Formula: see text], 
[Formula: see text] and [Formula: see text], were asymptotically proportional to 
elapsed time, with a constant limiting [Formula: see text] ratio of M/C 
averaging 7.0 times, a result in keeping with prior simultaneous [Formula: see 
text] and urine [Formula: see text] collection studies and exhibiting a rate of 
apparent volume growth of [Formula: see text] that achieved limiting constant 
values. A simulated constant average drug mass multidosing protocol exhibited 
increased [Formula: see text] and [Formula: see text] with elapsing time, 
effects that have been observed experimentally during same-dose multidosing. The 
GPC heavy-tailed models explained multiple documented phenomena that were 
unexplained with lighter-tailed models.

DOI: 10.1007/s10928-019-09666-z
PMCID: PMC7040082
PMID: 31865474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
