1. Diabetes Ther. 2020 Feb;11(2):423-436. doi: 10.1007/s13300-019-00744-6. Epub 
2019 Dec 20.

A Multinational Real-World Study on the Clinical Characteristics of Patients 
with Type 2 Diabetes Initiating Dapagliflozin in Southern Europe.

Fadini GP(1), Tentolouris N(2), Caballero Mateos I(3), Bellido Castañeda V(4), 
Morales Portillo C(5).

Author information:
(1)For the DARWIN-T2D Network of the Italian Diabetes Society, Department of 
Medicine, University of Padova, 35128, Padua, Italy. gianpaolo.fadini@unipd.it.
(2)1st Department of Propaedeutic Internal Medicine, Medical School, Laiko 
General Hospital, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, 
Greece.
(3)Department of Clinical Trials, Hospital Virgen Macarena, Seville, Spain.
(4)Department of Endocrinology and Nutrition, Cruces University Hospital, 
Bizkaia, Spain.
(5)Department of Endocrinology and Nutrition, Virgen Macarena University 
Hospital, Seville, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: A real-world study was performed to describe the clinical 
characteristics of patients who received dapagliflozin to better understand 
differences when initiating dapagliflozin in various countries and different 
prescribing settings.
METHODS: We assessed pooled data from observational studies carried out in Italy 
(n = 2484), Spain (n = 564) and Greece (n = 87). The primary objective was to 
compare the clinical profile of patients initiating dapagliflozin in the three 
countries. We also evaluated the percentage of patients who received 
dapagliflozin in clinical practice who satisfied DECLARE-TIMI 58 enrolment 
criteria.
RESULTS: In Italy and Spain, around 90% of patients were receiving metformin vs. 
66% in Greece (p < 0.0001). Patients in Greece had lower levels of estimated 
glomerular filtration rate and lower prevalence rates of retinopathy, prior 
stroke, acute myocardial infarction, peripheral arterial disease and 
atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Grouping the cohorts by prescribing 
setting (primary vs. specialist care), baseline HbA1c was lower in primary care 
(8.4 ± 1.7 vs. 8.7 ± 1.5, respectively; p < 0.0001). Significantly more patients 
were receiving other medications for concomitant conditions in specialist care. 
A total of 1416 patients (48%) did not meet DECLARE inclusion criteria, while 
1561 (52%) patients met the criteria (Greece 41.05%, Italy 53.19%, Spain 
51.35%).
CONCLUSIONS: Significant differences were seen among patients initiating 
dapagliflozin in southern Europe. Our results suggest that dapagliflozin was 
being initiated at different stages of the disease according to the country and 
prescribing settings. Such geographic heterogeneity may have an impact upon 
effectiveness of dapagliflozin on glucose lowering, as well as cardiovascular 
and renal outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s13300-019-00744-6
PMCID: PMC6995805
PMID: 31863344
