1. Biomed Pharmacother. 2020 Mar;123:109762. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2019.109762. 
Epub 2019 Dec 25.

iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic analysis of the inhibition of cervical cancer 
cell invasion and migration by metformin.

Xia C(1), Yang F(2), He Z(2), Cai Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Foshan Maternal and Child Health Research Institute, South Medical University 
Affiliated Maternal & Child Health Hospital of Foshan, Foshan 528000, China. 
Electronic address: xiachenglai@126.com.
(2)Foshan Maternal and Child Health Research Institute, South Medical University 
Affiliated Maternal & Child Health Hospital of Foshan, Foshan 528000, China.
(3)Department of Dermatology and Rheumatology, Foshan Women and Children's 
Hospital Affiliated to Southern Medical University, Foshan 528000, China.

In recent years the anti-diabetic drug metformin has been shown to inhibit tumor 
growth, but the underlying mechanism is unclear. Our previous results showed 
that metformin can destroy the sponge effect of long-chain non-coding RNA 
MALAT1/miR-142-3p and inhibit the proliferation of cervical cancer cells. 
Metformin can inhibit the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and synergizes with 
Nelfinavir to inhibit the proliferation and invasion of cervical cancer cells. 
In this study, we used iTRAQ-based proteomics, mass spectrometry-based targeted 
proteomics, immunoblotting, and bioinformatics to analyze the molecular 
mechanism by which metformin inhibits the proliferation and invasion of cervical 
cancer cells. We found that 53 proteins were differentially expressed in 
cervical cancer cells after metformin treatment, of which 20 were up-regulated 
and 33 were down-regulated. Bioinformatics analysis showed that the 53 
differentially expressed proteins are negative regulators of receptor signaling 
that inhibit cell growth and are mainly enriched in cell growth and apoptosis 
signaling pathways. We performed PRM verification on 11 of the differentially 
expressed proteins and found that they were all associated with apoptosis. We 
also found that metformin up-regulated the expression of the tumor suppressor 
IGFBP7 to inhibit the proliferation and invasion of cervical cancer cells. Our 
results indicate that metformin mainly regulates the insulin signaling pathway 
and interferes with cell proliferation and apoptosis to inhibit proliferation 
and invasion of cervical cancer cells. These differentially expressed proteins 
may become new targets for the treatment of cervical cancer.

Copyright Â© 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2019.109762
PMID: 31864213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest All other 
authors declare no competing interests.
