1. Water Res. 2020 Mar 15;171:115366. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2019.115366. Epub
2019  Dec 16.

Spatial distribution and temporal trends of pharmaceuticals sorbed to suspended 
particulate matter of German rivers.

Boulard L(1), Dierkes G(1), Schlüsener MP(1), Wick A(1), Koschorreck J(2), 
Ternes TA(3).

Author information:
(1)Federal Institute of Hydrology, Am Mainzer Tor 1, 56068, Koblenz, Germany.
(2)Federal Environmental Agency (Umweltbundesamt), Bismarckplatz 1, 10643, 
Berlin, Germany.
(3)Federal Institute of Hydrology, Am Mainzer Tor 1, 56068, Koblenz, Germany. 
Electronic address: ternes@bafg.de.

Although several studies confirmed a wide distribution of pharmaceuticals in 
rivers and streams, a limited knowledge is available about the partitioning of 
pharmaceuticals between the water phase and suspended particulate matter (SPM). 
To close this gap of knowledge, we developed and validated a sensitive and high 
throughput analytical method for the analysis of 57 pharmaceuticals, 42 
metabolites and transformation products (TP) as well as the artificial sweetener 
acesulfame sorbed to SPM. The method was based on pressurized liquid extraction 
(PLE) followed by a clean-up via solvent exchange and detection via direct 
injection-reversed phase LC-MS/MS and freeze-drying-HILIC-MS/MS. Freundlich 
isotherms were determined for 90 analytes. All showed a linear sorption 
behavior. Distribution coefficients (Kd) ranged from 0.64 L/kg to 9300 L/kg. For 
18 pharmaceuticals, Kd values were found to be above 100 L/kg. SPM of annual 
composite samples were analyzed to determine the pharmaceutical concentrations 
between 2005 and 2015 at four sites of the river Rhine: Weil, Iffezheim, Koblenz 
and Bimmen as well as between 2006 and 2015 at one site of the river Saar, at 
Rehlingen. In these SPM samples, up to 61 of the 100 analytes were detected with 
concentrations up to 190 ng/g d.w. (dry weight) for guanylurea, a transformation 
product of the antidiabetic metformin. For most analytes, increasing 
concentrations were found along the length of the Rhine and higher 
concentrations were measured in Rehlingen/Saar. Normalization of the data with 
the antiepileptic drug carbamazepine as an intrinsic tracer for municipal 
wastewater indicated possible industrial discharges for four analytes. For most 
pharmaceuticals, the annual concentrations exhibited a good correlation with the 
consumption volumes in Germany.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2019.115366
PMID: 31865123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.
