1. Am J Cardiol. 2020 Mar 1;125(5):751-758. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2019.11.030. 
Epub 2019 Dec 9.

Endothelial Dysfunction, Fibrinolytic Activity, and Coagulation Activity in 
Patients With Atrial Fibrillation According to Type II Diabetes Mellitus Status.

Patti G(1), Cerchiara E(2), Bressi E(2), Giannetti B(2), Veneri AD(2), Di 
Sciascio G(2), Avvisati G(2), De Caterina R(3).

Author information:
(1)Ospedale "Maggiore della Carità", University of Piemonte Orientale, Novara, 
Italy. Electronic address: giuseppe.patti@uniupo.it.
(2)Campus Bio-Medico University of Rome, Italy.
(3)University Cardiology Division, University of Pisa, Italy.

Recent findings in atrial fibrillation (AF) patients receiving oral 
anticoagulation showed that diabetes without insulin therapy has a 
thromboembolic risk comparable to nondiabetic patients, whereas only diabetic 
patients on insulin have a heightened thromboembolic risk. We explored possible 
pathophysiological correlates of such finding on 90 AF patients on oral 
anticoagulation, divided according to diabetes status (n = 30 without diabetes; 
n = 29 with diabetes on oral antidiabetic drugs; n = 31 with insulin-requiring 
diabetes). We assessed von Willebrand Factor (VWF) concentration (VWF:Ag) and 
activity (VWF R:Co) as measures of endothelial dysfunction; and 
thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI) and prothrombin fragment 
1 + 2 (F1+2) levels as markers of fibrinolytic activity and thrombin generation. 
Values of VWF:Ag, VWF:RCo, and TAFI were similar in the 3 groups. Patients with 
diabetes requiring insulin had significantly higher levels of F1+2 (median 23.1 
pg/ml [interquartile range 17.6; 33.5]) than those without diabetes (16.3 pg/ml 
[11.5; 22.5], p = 0.036) and diabetic patients on oral antidiabetic drugs (20.6 
pg/ml [13.3; 29], p = 0.046). Thus, in AF patients receiving oral 
anticoagulation, those with diabetes, regardless of the diabetes type (with or 
without insulin therapy), and those without diabetes have comparable indices of 
the explored parameters of endothelial dysfunction and fibrinolytic activity. 
Despite anticoagulant therapy, thrombin generation is selectively higher in 
diabetic patients' on insulin than in those without diabetes or with diabetes on 
oral antidiabetic drugs, with no differences between these latter 2 conditions. 
Thrombin generation might thus be a predominant contributor to the excess of 
thromboembolic risk in AF patients on insulin-requiring diabetes.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2019.11.030
PMID: 31889526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
