1. Fundam Clin Pharmacol. 2020 Jun;34(3):365-379. doi: 10.1111/fcp.12531. Epub
2020  Feb 3.

High affinity of 4-(4-(dimethylamino)styryl)-N-methylpyridinium transport for 
assessing organic cation drugs in hepatocellular carcinoma cells.

Jinakote M(1)(2), Ontawong A(3), Soodvilai S(4), Pimta J(4), Pasachan T(2), 
Chatsudthipong V(4), Srimaroeng C(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Oriental Medicine, Chiang Rai College, Chiang Rai, 57000, 
Thailand.
(2)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Chiang Mai University, Chiang 
Mai, 50200, Thailand.
(3)Unit of Excellence of Coffee, Division of Physiology, School of Medical 
Sciences, University of Phayao, Phayao, 56000, Thailand.
(4)Research Center of Transport Protein for Medical Innovation, Department of 
Physiology, Faculty of Science, Mahidol University, Bangkok, 10400, Thailand.

Human organic cation transporter 1 (hOCT1) and human organic cation transporter 
3 (hOCT3) are highly expressed in hepatocytes and play important roles in 
cationic drug absorption, distribution, and elimination. A previous study 
demonstrated that downregulation of hOCT1 and hOCT3 mRNA was related to 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) prognosis and severity. Whether these 
transporters expressed in HepG2 cells serve for cationic drug delivery has not 
been investigated. Besides radioactive transport, options for assessing hOCTs in 
hepatocytes are limited. This study clarified the significant roles of hOCTs in 
HepG2 by comparing cationic fluorescent 
4-(4-(dimethylamino)styryl)-N-methylpyridinium (ASP+ ) with traditional [3 
H]-1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+ ). The results showed ASP+ was preferably 
transported into HepG2 compared to [3 H]-MPP+ with high affinity and a high 
maximal transport rate. Selective transport of ASP+ mediated by hOCTs was 
influenced by extracellular pH, temperature, and membrane depolarization, 
corresponding to hOCT1 and hOCT3 expressions. Furthermore, transport of cationic 
drugs, metformin, and paclitaxel in HepG2 cells was blunted by OCT inhibitors, 
suggesting that hOCT1 and hOCT3 expressed in HepG2 cells exhibit notable impacts 
on cationic drug actions. The fluorescent ASP+ -based in vitro model may also 
provide a rapid and powerful analytical tool for further screening of cationic 
drug actions and interactions with hOCTs, particularly hOCT1 and hOCT3 in 
hepatocellular carcinoma.

© 2019 Société Française de Pharmacologie et de Thérapeutique.

DOI: 10.1111/fcp.12531
PMID: 31883148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
