1. Biochem Pharmacol. 2020 Apr;174:113787. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2019.113787. Epub 
2019 Dec 27.

Immune-mediated anti-tumor effects of metformin; targeting metabolic 
reprogramming of T cells as a new possible mechanism for anti-cancer effects of 
metformin.

Bahrambeigi S(1), Shafiei-Irannejad V(2).

Author information:
(1)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Cellular and Molecular Medicine 
Institute, Urmia University of Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran.
(2)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Cellular and Molecular Medicine 
Institute, Urmia University of Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran. Electronic 
address: Shafiei.v@umsu.ac.ir.

Immunotherapy-based cancer treatment has revolutionized the era of cancer 
patients recuperation and it has brought a strong hope to treatment of some 
types of cancers. Metformin, a widely used antidiabetic drug, which has 
intensely been studied for its anticancer effects, is believed to have positive 
influences on immune responses against tumor cells. Metformin can affect 
metabolic pathways within cells mainly through activation of AMPK. Metabolic 
restriction of tumor microenvironment on effector immune cells is one of the 
important strategies favoring tumor cells to escape from immunogenic cell death. 
The metabolism of T cells has an axial role in shaping and supporting immune 
responses and may have an important role in anticancer immunity, suggesting that 
the functionality and durability of tumor-specific T cells need sufficient 
energy and nutrients. Energy biogenesis of tumor-specific cytotoxic T cells has 
become an interesting field of study and it is suggested that activation and 
maintenance of effector T cell responses in tumor microenvironment may occur by 
metabolic reprogramming of T cells. AMPK has been noticed as the main 
intracellular energy sensor and mitochondrial biogenesis key regulator which can 
control and regulate metabolic reprogramming in immune cells and increase 
antitumor immunity. Metabolic reprogramming of T cells to overcome metabolic 
restriction in tumor microenvironment, maiming effector T cell responses against 
tumor cells, has been noticed by several studies. Here we represent metformin, 
an AMPK activator, as a new candidate drug for metabolic reprogramming of 
tumor-specific T cells to increase the efficacy and accountability of cancer 
immunotherapy.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2019.113787
PMID: 31884044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
