1. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2020 Jan;412(1):113-127. doi: 10.1007/s00216-019-02207-0. 
Epub 2020 Jan 2.

Systematic assessment of extraction of pharmaceuticals and personal care 
products in water and sediment followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass 
spectrometry.

Sadutto D(1), Álvarez-Ruiz R(2), Picó Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Environmental and Food Safety Research Group of the University of Valencia 
(SAMA-UV), Desertification Research Centre (CIDE), CSIC-UV-GV, Moncada-Náquera 
Road km 4.5, 46113, Moncada, Valencia, Spain. sadutto@uv.es.
(2)Environmental and Food Safety Research Group of the University of Valencia 
(SAMA-UV), Desertification Research Centre (CIDE), CSIC-UV-GV, Moncada-Náquera 
Road km 4.5, 46113, Moncada, Valencia, Spain.

Two solid-phase extraction methods were systematically studied to determine 32 
pharmaceuticals and personal care products in water and sediments by 
ultrahigh-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. One 
involves HLB cartridges activated with sodium dodecyl sulfate before the passage 
of the sample to form an ion pair with cationic analytes, and the other uses 
mixed HLB-cation exchange cartridges. The accuracy of the sodium dodecyl sulfate 
method was good for most compounds (recoveries of 61-120% with relative standard 
deviation less than 23%). However, the recoveries for atorvastatin, codeine, 
paracetamol, flufenamic acid, and salicylic acid were approximately 50% and for 
omeprazole and triclocarban were even lower (from 0 to 12%). The detection 
limits were 1.65-25 ng L-1 in water and 0.33-4.00 ng g-1 (dry weight) in 
sediment. The recoveries for the mixed-mode cartridge (Strata-X-CW) method 
ranged from 57% to 120% with relative standard deviation less than 21%, with the 
exception of codeine [25% (water)], metformin [11% (sediment)], paracetamol [48% 
(sediment)], and salicylic acid [32% (sediment)]. The detection limits were 
1.65-38.35 ng L-1 in water and 0.33-10 ng g-1 (dry weight) in sediment. Both 
methods followed the same pattern when applied to water. For sediments, the 
recoveries, which offer good performance, were not very high, although 60% of 
the compounds had recoveries greater 80%. The methods were applied to the 
analysis of surface water and sediments from the Albufera Natural Park (Spain). 
Twenty-seven of 32 analytes were detected in the samples analyzed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-019-02207-0
PMID: 31897565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
