1. Int J Biol Sci. 2020 Jan 1;16(1):74-84. doi: 10.7150/ijbs.33787. eCollection 
2020.

Metformin induces cell cycle arrest, apoptosis and autophagy through ROS/JNK 
signaling pathway in human osteosarcoma.

Li B(1), Zhou P(2), Xu K(1), Chen T(1), Jiao J(1), Wei H(1), Yang X(1), Xu W(1), 
Wan W(1), Xiao J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Oncology, Changzheng Hospital, Second Military 
Medical University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai 
Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.

Erratum in
    Int J Biol Sci. 2022 Jul 8;18(11):4468.

Metformin, an ancient drug commonly used for treating type II diabetes, has been 
associated to anti-cancer capacity in a variety of developing cancers, though 
the mechanism remains elusive. Here, we aimed to examine the inhibitory effect 
of metformin in osteosarcoma. Herein, we demonstrated that metformin treatment 
blocked proliferation progression by causing accumulation of G2/M phase in U2OS 
and 143B cells. Furthermore, metformin treatment triggered programmed cell death 
process in osteosarcoma cell lines. Further research indicated the induction of 
apoptosis and autophagy triggered by metformin could remarkably attenuate after 
the treatment of ROS scavenger NAC and JNK inhibitor SP600125. Additionally, our 
results showed that NAC-suppressed JNK/c-Jun signaling pathway could have been 
activated through metformin treatment. Lastly, metformin could inhibit 
osteosarcoma growth under safe dose in vivo. Thus, we propose that metformin 
could induce cell cycle arrest as well as programmed cell death, including 
apoptosis and autophagy, through ROS-dependent JNK/c-Jun cascade in human 
osteosarcoma. This metformin-induced pathway provides further insights into its 
antitumor potential molecular mechanism and illuminates potential cancer targets 
for osteosarcoma.

Â© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/ijbs.33787
PMCID: PMC6930379
PMID: 31892847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.
