1. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2020 Feb;21(2):207-211. doi: 
10.1080/14656566.2019.1701655. Epub 2020 Jan 1.

Management of obesity in adolescents with polycystic ovary syndrome.

Vatopoulou A(1), Tziomalos K(2).

Author information:
(1)First Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, Aristotle 
University Thessaloniki, Papageorgiou Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)First Propedeutic Department of Internal Medicine, Aristotle University of 
Thessaloniki, AHEPA Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece.

Introduction: Approximately 1% of adolescents have polycystic ovary syndrome 
(PCOS) and almost 40-70% of these patients are overweight or obese. Obese 
adolescents with PCOS have more severe insulin resistance and hyperandrogenemia, 
a more adverse lipid profile and a worse quality of life than normal-weight 
adolescents with PCOS. Accordingly, weight loss is an important component of the 
management of these patients.Areas covered: The authors discuss the different 
options for weight loss in obese adolescents with PCOS. Lifestyle changes appear 
to be effective but adherence to this intervention is suboptimal. There are also 
limited data regarding the optimal diet in this population. Few small studies 
have evaluated the effects of pharmacotherapy in these patients. Conflicting 
data have been reported regarding the effects of metformin on body weight. 
Notably, agents that have been approved for weight loss in adults have not been 
evaluated in adolescents with PCOS.Expert opinion: More studies are needed to 
identify the most appropriate diet for obese adolescents with PCOS. 
Well-designed randomized controlled studies are also needed to define the safety 
and efficacy of pharmacotherapy in this population.

DOI: 10.1080/14656566.2019.1701655
PMID: 31893931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
