1. Int J Mol Med. 2020 Feb;45(2):623-633. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2019.4438. Epub 2019 
Dec 23.

Metformin alleviates endometrial hyperplasia through the UCA1/miR‑144/TGF‑β1/AKT 
signaling pathway.

Guo M(1), Zhou JJ(2), Huang W(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Xing Yuan (4th) Hospital of Yulin, Yulin, Shaanxi 
719000, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Gynecology, Ankang Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Ankang, Shaanxi 725000, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Gynecology, Baoji Maternal and Child Health Hospital, Baoji, 
Shaanxi 721000, P.R. China.

The objective of the present study was to investigate the molecular mechanism 
underlying the role of metformin (Met) in reducing the risk of endometrial 
hyperplasia (EH). Reverse transcription‑quantitative polymerase chain reaction, 
western blot and immunohistochemistry (IHC) assays were used to study the 
effects of Met and tamoxifen on the expression levels of urothelial cancer 
associated 1 (UCA1), microRNA‑144 (miR‑144) and other factors along the 
transforming growth factor‑β1 (TGF‑β1)/protein kinase B (AKT) signaling pathway. 
In addition, MTT and flow cytometry assays were performed to detect the effect 
of Met on cell proliferation and apoptosis. Tamoxifen treatment increased the 
weight of the uterus and the level of UCA1, while decreasing the expression of 
miR‑144. In addition, treatment with tamoxifen (2.0 and 3.5 µg) upregulated the 
protein expression levels of TGF‑β and p‑AKT, while downregulating the protein 
expression of active Caspase‑3 in a dose‑dependent manner. By contrast, Met 
reduced cell viability, promoted cell apoptosis, and reduced the expression 
levels of UCA1, TGF‑β and p‑AKT, while upregulating the expression of miR‑144 
and active Caspase‑3 in a dose‑dependent manner. Furthermore, Met also reduced 
the weight of uterus. However, tamoxifen and Met did not exert any effect on the 
protein levels of total AKT and total Caspase‑3. The levels of TGF‑β and p‑AKT 
proteins in the EH group were much higher when compared with those in the sham 
group, while Met treatment reduced these protein levels to a certain extent. In 
addition, the expression of active Caspase‑3 in the EH group was much lower than 
that in the sham group, while Met treatment increased its level to a certain 
extent. In conclusion, the current study suggested that Met reduces the risk of 
EH by reducing the expression levels of UCA1, TGF‑β and p‑AKT, while increasing 
the levels of miR‑144 and active Caspase‑3 in a dose‑dependent manner.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2019.4438
PMID: 31894313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
