1. AAPS PharmSciTech. 2020 Jan 3;21(2):48. doi: 10.1208/s12249-019-1589-3.

Guar Gum Micro-particles for Targeted Co-delivery of Doxorubicin and Metformin 
HCL for Improved Specificity and Efficacy Against Colon Cancer: In Vitro and In 
Vivo Studies.

Kang RK(1), Mishr N(1)(2), Rai VK(3).

Author information:
(1)Associate Professor, Department of Pharmaceutics, ISF College of Pharmacy, 
Moga, Punjab, 142001, India.
(2)Amity Institute of Pharmacy, Amity University Madhya Pradesh, Gwalior, Madhya 
Pradesh, India.
(3)Associate Professor, Department of Pharmaceutics, ISF College of Pharmacy, 
Moga, Punjab, 142001, India. raivk.gkp@gmail.com.

Doxorubicin and Metformin HCL is a known chemotherapeutic combination that wipes 
out tumors and prevents their recurrence. However, limited site specificity 
confines its application. Here we report Doxorubicin and Metformin HCL-loaded 
guar gum micro-particles prepared by emulsification cum-solidification method. 
Developed micro-particles were characterized as spherical shape particles with 
smooth surface and micro size diameter. Encapsulation of drugs in combination 
was confirmed by their characteristic functional groups (FT-IR), change in phase 
transition temperature (DSC) and X-ray diffraction pattern (XRD). Particles were 
observed to be stable at 25 and 5°C. The in vitro Doxorubicin and Metformin HCL 
release study in simulated gastric (SGF), intestinal (SIF) and colonic fluid 
(SCF) confirms restricted release in SGF (9.3 and 9.6%, respectively, in 2 h) 
and SIF (10.8 and 14.7%, respectively, in the next 3 h) and highest release in 
SCF (about 68 and 73.3%, respectively) in colon. Developed micro-particles 
showed 78% recovery in tumor volume and considerable improvement in histological 
changes. X-ray images confirmed good target ability of micro-particles to colon. 
In conclusion, the specially designed, stable micro-particles are able to target 
drug combination to colon and improve efficacy by ensuring maximum drug release 
in colon as compared with Doxorubicin and Metformin HCL combination.

DOI: 10.1208/s12249-019-1589-3
PMID: 31900731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
