1. Endocr Connect. 2020 Feb;9(2):R14-R27. doi: 10.1530/EC-19-0482.

How treatments with endocrine and metabolic drugs influence pituitary cell 
function.

Tulipano G.

A variety of endocrine and metabolic signals regulate pituitary cell function 
acting through the hypothalamus-pituitary neuroendocrine axes or directly at the 
pituitary level. The underlying intracellular transduction mechanisms in 
pituitary cells are still debated. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) functions 
as a cellular sensor of low energy stores in all mammalian cells and promotes 
adaptive changes in response to calorie restriction. It is also regarded as a 
target for therapy of proliferative disorders. Various hormones and drugs can 
promote tissue-specific activation or inhibition of AMPK by enhancing or 
inhibiting AMPK phosphorylation, respectively. This review explores the 
preclinical studies published in the last decade that investigate the role of 
AMP-activated protein kinase in the intracellular transduction pathways 
downstream of endocrine and metabolic signals or drugs affecting pituitary cell 
function, and its role as a target for drug therapy of pituitary proliferative 
disorders. The effects of the hypoglycemic agent metformin, which is an indirect 
AMPK activator, are discussed. The multiple effects of metformin on cell 
metabolism and cell signalling and ultimately on cell function may be either 
dependent or independent of AMPK. The in vitro effects of metformin may also 
help highlighting differences in metabolic requirements between pituitary 
adenomatous cells and normal cells.

DOI: 10.1530/EC-19-0482
PMCID: PMC6993271
PMID: 31905162
