1. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2020 Feb;160:108001. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2020.108001. Epub 2020 Jan 3.

Cardiovascular risk following metformin treatment in patients with type 2 
diabetes mellitus: Results from meta-analysis.

Zhang K(1), Yang W(2), Dai H(1), Deng Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic Pathology, West China School of Basic Medical Sciences 
& Forensic Medicine, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Department of Physiology, West China School of Basic Medical Sciences & 
Forensic Medicine, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, People's 
Republic of China.
(3)Department of Forensic Pathology, West China School of Basic Medical Sciences 
& Forensic Medicine, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, People's 
Republic of China. Electronic address: newman-zhk@163.com.

AIM: Pharmacologic therapy for T2DM has proven benefits in terms of reducing 
elevated blood glucose levels and reducing microvascular complications. However, 
the impact of metformin on adverse cardiovascular outcomes and cardiovascular 
mortality is less clear. We carried out this meta-analysis on all published 
studies to estimate the overall cardiovascular risk following metformin 
treatment in patients with T2DM.
METHODS: We searched the PubMed, Embase and CNKI (China National Knowledge 
Infrastructure) databases for all articles. The odds ratio (OR) corresponding to 
the 95% confidence interval (95% CI) was used to assess the cardiovascular risk 
following metformin treatment in patients with T2DM. The statistical 
heterogeneity among studies was assessed with the Q-test and I2 statistics.
RESULTS: We collected 16 studies including 25 comparisons with 1,160,254 
patients of type 2 diabetes mellitus and 701,843 patients of T2DM following 
metformin treatment. Our results found statistical evidence of significantly 
decreased cardiovascular risk to be associated with following treatment with 
metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (OR = 0.57, 95% 
CI = 0.48-0.68) (shown in Table 1 and Fig. 2), both with the mortality 
(OR = 0.44, 95% CI = 0.34-0.57) and incidence (OR = 0.73, 95% CI = 0.59-0.90).
CONCLUSIONS: Our meta-analysis indicated that following metformin treatment in 
patients with T2DM was associated with decreased cardiovascular risk, both with 
the mortality and incidence. However, the heterogeneity among studies may 
potentially affect the final results.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2020.108001
PMID: 31904444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declared that there is no conflict of interest.
