1. J Am Heart Assoc. 2020 Jan 7;9(1):e012940. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.119.012940. Epub 
2020 Jan 4.

Sex Differences in Cardiovascular Effectiveness of Newer Glucose-Lowering Drugs 
Added to Metformin in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus.

Raparelli V(1)(2)(3), Elharram M(2)(4), Moura CS(3), Abrahamowicz M(3)(5), 
Bernatsky S(2)(3)(5), Behlouli H(3), Pilote L(2)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Medicine Sapienza University of Rome Italy.
(2)Department of Medicine McGill University Montreal QC Canada.
(3)Research Institute McGill University Health Centre Montreal QC Canada.
(4)Division of Experimental Medicine McGill University Montreal QC Canada.
(5)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health McGill 
University Montreal QC Canada.

Background Randomized controlled trials showed that newer glucose-lowering 
agents are cardioprotective, but most participants were men. It is unknown 
whether benefits are similar in women. Methods and Results Among adults with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus not controlled with metformin with no prior use of 
insulin, we assessed for sex differences in the cardiovascular effectiveness and 
safety of sodium-glucose-like transport-2 inhibitors (SGLT-2i), glucagon-like 
peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RA), dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors, 
initiated as second-line agents relative to sulfonylureas (reference-group). We 
studied type 2 diabetes mellitus American adults with newly dispensed 
sulfonylureas, SGLT-2i, GLP-1RA, or dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors 
(Marketscan-Database: 2011-2017). We used multivariable Cox proportional hazards 
models with time-varying exposure to compare time to first nonfatal 
cardiovascular event (myocardial infarction/unstable angina, stroke, and heart 
failure), and safety outcomes between drugs users, and tested for sex-drug 
interactions. Among 167 254 type 2 diabetes mellitus metformin users (46% women, 
median age 59 years, at low cardiovascular risk), during a median 4.5-year 
follow-up, cardiovascular events incidence was lower in women than men (14.7 
versus 16.7 per 1000-person-year). Compared with sulfonylureas, hazard ratios 
(HRs) for cardiovascular events were lower with GLP-1RA (adjusted HR-women: 
0.57, 95% CI: 0.48-0.68; aHR-men: 0.82, 0.71-0.95), dipeptidyl peptidase-4 
inhibitors (aHR-women: 0.83, 0.77-0.89; aHR-men: 0.85, 0.79-0.91) and SGLT-2i 
(aHR-women: 0.58, 0.46-0.74; aHR-men: 0.69, 0.57-0.83). A sex-by-drug 
interaction was statistically significant only for GLP-1RA (P=0.002), suggesting 
greater cardiovascular effectiveness in women. Compared with sulfonylureas, 
risks of adverse events were similarly lower in both sexes for GLP-1RA 
(aHR-women: 0.81, 0.73-0.89; aHR-men: 0.80, 0.71-0.89), dipeptidyl peptidase-4 
inhibitors (aHR-women: 0.82, 0.78-0.87; aHR-men: 0.83, 0.78-0.87) and SGLT-2i 
(aHR-women: 0.68, 0.59-0.78; aHR-men: 0.67, 0.59-0.78) (all sex-drug 
interactions for adverse events P>0.05). Conclusions Newer glucose-lowering 
drugs were associated with lower risk of cardiovascular events than 
sulfonylureas, with greater effectiveness of GLP-1RA in women than men. Overall, 
they appeared safe, with a better safety profile for SGLT-2i than for GLP-1RA 
regardless of sex.

DOI: 10.1161/JAHA.119.012940
PMCID: PMC6988160
PMID: 31902326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
