1. Biol Pharm Bull. 2020;43(1):129-137. doi: 10.1248/bpb.b19-00689.

Metformin Suppresses LPS-Induced Inflammatory Responses in Macrophage and 
Ameliorates Allergic Contact Dermatitis in Mice via Autophagy.

Wang M(1), Qu S(1), Ma J(1), Wang X(1), Yang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Experiment Center for Science and Technology, Shanghai University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine.

Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) is one of the most common skin diseases caused 
by hapten-modified proteins. Metformin, a drug commonly prescribed for type II 
diabetes, has been demonstrated to have various biological functions beyond its 
antidiabetic effects. However, its role in ACD remains unknown. In the present 
study, we found that metformin reduced the production of nitric oxide (NO) and 
the level of proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, 
interleukin (IL)-1β, and IL-6 in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW264.7 
cells. These anti-inflammatory effects were also demonstrated on bone 
marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). Furthermore, metformin also enhanced 
autophagic flux, inhibited the phosphorylation of the serine/threonine protein 
kinase (AKT)/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), mitogen-activated protein 
kinases (MAPKs) related protein levels and the level of miR-221 in 
LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells. Besides, metformin attenuated 
2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB)-induced ACD and inhibited proinflammatory 
cytokines in the ear. In addition, metformin ameliorated ACD partly through the 
inhibition of macrophage activation and the induction of autophagic flux. Taken 
together, our data indicated that metformin ameliorates ACD through enhanced 
autophagic flux to inhibit macrophage activation and provides a potential 
contribution to ACD treatment.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.b19-00689
PMID: 31902918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
