1. Am J Epidemiol. 2020 May 5;189(5):461-469. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwz272.

Adaptive Treatment Strategies With Survival Outcomes: An Application to the 
Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes Using a Large Observational Database.

Simoneau G, Moodie EEM, Azoulay L, Platt RW.

Sequences of treatments that adapt to a patient's changing condition over time 
are often needed for the management of chronic diseases. An adaptive treatment 
strategy (ATS) consists of personalized treatment rules to be applied through 
the course of a disease that input the patient's characteristics at the time of 
decision-making and output a recommended treatment. An optimal ATS is the 
sequence of tailored treatments that yields the best clinical outcome for 
patients sharing similar characteristics. Methods for estimating optimal 
adaptive treatment strategies, which must disentangle short- and long-term 
treatment effects, can be theoretically involved and hard to explain to 
clinicians, especially when the outcome to be optimized is a survival time 
subject to right-censoring. In this paper, we describe dynamic weighted survival 
modeling, a method for estimating an optimal ATS with survival outcomes. Using 
data from the Clinical Practice Research Datalink, a large primary-care 
database, we illustrate how it can answer an important clinical question about 
the treatment of type 2 diabetes. We identify an ATS pertaining to which drug 
add-ons to recommend when metformin in monotherapy does not achieve the 
therapeutic goals.

Â© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwz272
PMID: 31903490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
