1. Drug Dev Res. 2020 Jun;81(4):390-401. doi: 10.1002/ddr.21636. Epub 2020 Jan 9.

A review of phenformin, metformin, and imeglimin.

Yendapally R(1), Sikazwe D(1), Kim SS(1), Ramsinghani S(1), Fraser-Spears R(1), 
Witte AP(1), La-Viola B(2).

Author information:
(1)Feik School of Pharmacy, University of the Incarnate Word, San Antonio, 
Texas.
(2)School of Pharmacy, University of Maryland Eastern Shore, Princess Anne, 
Maryland.

Diabetes mellitus is a serious metabolic disorder affecting millions of people 
worldwide. Phenformin and metformin are biguanide antidiabetic agents that are 
conveniently synthesized in a single-step chemical reaction. Phenformin was once 
used to lower blood glucose levels, but later withdrawn from the market in 
several countries because it was frequently associated with lactic acidosis. 
Metformin is still a widely prescribed medication for the treatment of type 2 
diabetes despite the introduction of several newer antidiabetic agents. 
Metformin is administered orally and has desirable pharmacokinetics. Incidence 
of metformin-induced lactic acidosis is serious but very rare. Imeglimin, a 
novel molecule being investigated by Poxel and Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma in 
Japan, is currently in clinical trials for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. 
Unlike metformin, imeglimin is a cyclic molecule containing a triazine ring. 
However, like metformin, imeglimin is also a basic small molecule. Imeglimin is 
synthesized from metformin as a precursor via a single step chemical reaction. 
Recent mechanism of action studies suggests that imeglimin improves mitochondria 
function, when given in combination with metformin it helps achieve better 
glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. We herein describe and 
compare the current status, synthesis, physicochemical properties, 
pharmacokinetic parameters, mechanism of action, and preclinical/clinical 
studies of metformin and imeglimin.

Â© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ddr.21636
PMID: 31916629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
