1. Medicine (Baltimore). 2020 Jan;99(2):e18708. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000018708.

A cross-sectional study: Associations between sarcopenia and clinical 
characteristics of patients with type 2 diabetes.

Cui M(1), Gang X, Wang G, Xiao X, Li Z, Jiang Z, Wang G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endodcrinology and Metabolism of the First Hospital of Jilin 
University, Changchun, Jilin Province, China.

Sarcopenia is a geriatric syndrome and it impairs physical function. Patients 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) are at a higher risk of sarcopenia. The 
purpose of this study is to explore characteristics of general information and 
metabolic factors of sarcopenia in patients with T2DM in the northeast of China, 
and provide information for the prevention and treatment of sarcopenia in 
clinical practice.Patients with T2DM aged â‰¥65 were recruited in Changchun from 
March 2017 to February 2018. Questionnaires of general information, physical 
examination, laboratory and imaging examination were conducted. The patients 
were assigned into sarcopenia group and non-sarcopenia group according to the 
diagnostic criteria proposed by Asian working group for sarcopenia (AWGS), and 
the differences between 2 groups were analyzed.A total of 132 participants were 
included in this study, of which, 38 (28.8%) were diagnosed with sarcopenia. 94 
(71.2%) were with no sarcopenia. Logistic regression analysis showed that age 
(OR: 1.182, 95%CI: 1.038-1.346), trunk fat mass (TFM) (OR: 1.499, 95%CI: 
1.146-1.960) and free thyroxine (FT4) (OR: 1.342, 95%CI: 1.102-1.635) were 
independent risk factors for sarcopenia. BMI (body mass index) (OR: 0.365, 
95%CI: 0.236-0.661), exercise (OR: 0.016, 95%CI: 0.001-0.169), female (OR: 
0.000, 95%CI: 0.00-0.012), metformin (OR: 0.159, 95%CI: 0.026-0.967) and TSM 
(trunk skeletal muscle mass) (OR: 0.395, 95%CI: 0.236-0.661) were protective 
factors for sarcopenia.Sarcopenia in patients with T2DM is associated with 
increased age, increased TFM and increased FT4 level. Regular exercise, female, 
metformin administrations, high BMI and increased TSM are associated with lower 
risk of sarcopenia.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000018708
PMCID: PMC6959879
PMID: 31914078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.
