1. Mol Metab. 2020 Jan;31:98-108. doi: 10.1016/j.molmet.2019.11.007. Epub 2019
Nov  15.

FDG uptake tracks the oxidative damage in diabetic skeletal muscle: An 
experimental study.

Bauckneht M(1), Cossu V(1), Castellani P(2), Piccioli P(2), Orengo AM(3), 
Emionite L(4), Di Giulio F(3), Donegani MI(5), Miceli A(5), Raffa S(5), Borra 
A(5), Capitanio S(3), Morbelli S(1), Caviglia G(6), Bruno S(7), Ravera S(7), 
Maggi D(8), Sambuceti G(1), Marini C(9).

Author information:
(1)Nuclear Medicine, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Benzi 10, 
16132 Genoa, Italy; Department of Health Sciences, University of Genoa, Via 
Pastore 1, 16132 Genoa, Italy.
(2)Cell Biology Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Benzi 10, 
16132 Genoa, Italy.
(3)Nuclear Medicine, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Benzi 10, 
16132 Genoa, Italy.
(4)Animal Facility, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Benzi 10, 
16132 Genoa, Italy.
(5)Department of Health Sciences, University of Genoa, Via Pastore 1, 16132 
Genoa, Italy.
(6)Department Experimental Medicine, University of Genoa, Len Battista Alberti 
2, 16132 Genoa, Italy.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Genoa, Viale Benedetto XV 6, 
16132 Genoa, Italy.
(8)Diabetes Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino Genoa, Largo Benzi 10, 
16132 Genoa, Italy; Department of Mathematics (DIMA), University of Genoa, Via 
Dodecaneso 35, 16146 Genoa, Italy.
(9)Nuclear Medicine, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Benzi 10, 
16132 Genoa, Italy; CNR Institute of Molecular Bioimaging and Physiology (IBFM), 
Via Fratelli Cervi 93, 20090 Segrate (MI), Italy. Electronic address: 
cecilia.marini@unige.it.

OBJECTIVES: The present study aims to verify the relationship between glucose 
consumption and uptake of 18F-2-deoxy-glucose (FDG) in the skeletal muscle (SM) 
of experimental models of streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus (STZ-DM).
METHODS: The study included 36 Balb/c mice. Two weeks after intraperitoneal 
administration of saline (control group, n = 18) or 150 mg streptozotocin 
(STZ-DM group, n = 18), the two cohorts were submitted to an oral glucose 
tolerance test and were further subdivided into three groups (n = 6 each): 
untreated and treated with metformin (MTF) at low or high doses (10 or 750 mg/kg 
daily, respectively). Two weeks thereafter, all mice were submitted to dynamic 
micro-positron emission tomography (PET) imaging after prolonged fasting. After 
sacrifice, enzymatic pathways and response to oxidative stress were evaluated in 
harvested SM.
RESULTS: On PET imaging, the FDG uptake rate in hindlimb SM was significantly 
lower in nondiabetic mice as compared with STZ-DM-untreated mice. MTF had no 
significant effect on SM FDG uptake in untreated mice; however, its high dose 
induced a significant decrease in STZ-DM animals. Upon conventional analysis, 
the SM standard uptake value was higher in STZ-DM mice, while MTF was virtually 
ineffective in either control or STZ-DM models. This metabolic reprogramming was 
not explained by any change in cytosolic glucose metabolism. By contrast, it 
closely agreed with the catalytic function of hexose-6P-dehydrogenase (H6PD; 
i.e., the trigger of a specific pentose phosphate pathway selectively located 
within the endoplasmic reticulum). In agreement with this role, the H6PD 
enzymatic response to both STZ-DM and MTF matched the activation of the 
NADPH-dependent antioxidant responses to the increased generation of reactive 
oxygen species caused by chronic hyperglycemia. Ex vivo analysis of tracer 
kinetics confirmed that the enhanced SM avidity for FDG occurred despite a 
significant reduction in glucose consumption, while it was associated with 
increased radioactivity transfer to the endoplasmic reticulum.
CONCLUSIONS: These data challenge the current dogma linking FDG uptake to the 
glycolytic rate. They instead introduce a new model considering a strict link 
between the uptake of this glucose analog, H6PD reticular activity, and 
oxidative damage in diabetes, at least under fasting condition.

Copyright © 2019 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molmet.2019.11.007
PMCID: PMC6920267
PMID: 31918925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.
