1. Toxicol Sci. 2020 Apr 1;174(2):159-167. doi: 10.1093/toxsci/kfaa002.

Novel Therapeutic Approaches Against Acetaminophen-induced Liver Injury and 
Acute Liver Failure.

Jaeschke H(1), Akakpo JY(1), Umbaugh DS(1), Ramachandran A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology & Therapeutics, University of Kansas 
Medical Center, Kansas City, Kansas.

Liver injury and acute liver failure caused by acetaminophen (APAP, 
N-acetyl-p-aminophenol, paracetamol) overdose is a significant clinical problem 
in most western countries. The only clinically approved antidote is 
N-acetylcysteine (NAC), which promotes the recovery of hepatic GSH. If 
administered during the metabolism phase, GSH scavenges the reactive metabolite 
N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine. More recently, it was shown that NAC can also 
reconstitute mitochondrial GSH levels and scavenge reactive oxygen/peroxynitrite 
and can support mitochondrial bioenergetics. However, NAC has side effects and 
may not be efficacious after high overdoses. Repurposing of additional drugs 
based on their alternate mechanisms of action could be a promising approach. 
4-Methylpyrazole (4MP) was shown to be highly effective against APAP toxicity by 
inhibiting cytochrome P450 enzymes in mice and humans. In addition, 4MP is a 
potent c-Jun N-terminal kinase inhibitor expanding its therapeutic window. 
Calmangafodipir (CMFP) is a SOD mimetic, which is well tolerated in patients and 
has the potential to be effective after severe overdoses. Other drugs approved 
for humans such as metformin and methylene blue were shown to be protective in 
mice at high doses or at human therapeutic doses, respectively. Additional 
protective strategies such as enhancing antioxidant activities, Nrf2-dependent 
gene induction and autophagy activation by herbal medicine components are being 
evaluated. However, at this point, their mechanistic insight is limited, and the 
doses used are high. More rigorous mechanistic studies are needed to advance 
these herbal compounds. Nevertheless, based on recent studies, 4-methylpyrazole 
and calmangafodipir have realistic prospects to become complimentary or even 
alternative antidotes to NAC for APAP overdose.

Â© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Society of Toxicology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/toxsci/kfaa002
PMCID: PMC7098369
PMID: 31926003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
