1. Int J Mol Med. 2020 Mar;45(3):715-730. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2020.4453. Epub 2020 
Jan 8.

Metformin attenuates the D‑galactose‑induced aging process via the UPR through 
the AMPK/ERK1/2 signaling pathways.

Cai H(1), Han B(1), Hu Y(1), Zhao X(1), He Z(1), Chen X(1), Sun H(1), Yuan J(1), 
Li Y(1), Yang X(1), Kong W(2), Kong WJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei 430022, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei 430022, P.R. China.

Age‑related hearing loss, also termed central presbycusis, is a progressive 
neurodegenerative disease; it is a devastating disorder that severely affects 
the quality of life of elderly individuals. Substantial evidence has indicated 
that oxidative stress and associated protein folding dysfunction have a marked 
influence on neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we aimed to cells to 
investigate whether metformin protects against age‑related pathologies and to 
elucidate the underlying mechanisms; specifically, we focused on the role of 
unfolded protein response (UPR) via the AMPK/ERK1/2 signaling pathways. For this 
purpose, the biguanide compound, metformin, a medication widely used in the 
treatment of type 2 diabetes, was administered to rats in a model of mimetic 
aging. In addition, senescent PC12 were treated with metformin. Although it has 
been well established that UPR signaling is activated in response to cellular 
stress and is associated with the pathogenesis of neuronal deterioration, the 
detailed functions of the UPR in the auditory cortex remain unclear. We found 
that metformin treatment markedly affected the UPR and the AMPK/ERK1/2 signaling 
pathway, and maintained the auditory brainstem response (ABR) threshold during 
the aging process. The results indicated that the regulation of the UPR and 
AMPK/ERK1/2 signaling pathway by metformin significantly attenuated hearing 
loss, cell apoptosis and age‑related neurodegeneration. Reversing these harmful 
effects through the use of metformin suggests its involvement in restoring the 
antioxidant status and protein homeostasis related to the underlying pathology 
of presbycusis. The findings of this study may provide a better approach for the 
treatment of age‑related neurodegeneration diseases.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2020.4453
PMCID: PMC7015132
PMID: 31922237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
