1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Mar 25;710:136347. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.136347.  Epub 2019 Dec 28.

Pharmaceutical pollution of water resources in Nakivubo wetlands and Lake 
Victoria, Kampala, Uganda.

Dalahmeh S(1), Björnberg E(2), Elenström AK(2), Niwagaba CB(3), Komakech AJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Energy and Technology, Swedish University of Agricultural 
Sciences (SLU), Box 7032, SE 750 07 Uppsala, Sweden. Electronic address: 
sahar.dalahmeh@slu.se.
(2)Department of Energy and Technology, Swedish University of Agricultural 
Sciences (SLU), Box 7032, SE 750 07 Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Makerere University, Box 
7062, Kampala, Uganda.
(4)Department of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering, Makerere University, 
Box 7062, Kampala, Uganda.

Erratum in
    Sci Total Environ. 2020 Dec 15;748:138544.

This study investigated the occurrence and removal in wastewater and water 
bodies in Nakivubo wetland area and Inner Murchison Bay, Lake Victoria, of 
common prescription and non-prescription pharmaceutically-active substances 
(PhACs) sold in Kampala city, Uganda. A questionnaire was sent to 20 pharmacies 
in Kampala, to identify the most commonly sold PhACs in the city. During two 
sampling campaigns, samples were collected from Bugolobi wastewater treatment 
plant (WWTP) influent and effluent and surface water samples from Nakivubo 
channel, Nakivubo wetland and Inner Murchison Bay. The concentrations of 28 
PhACs, organic matter, solids and nutrients in water samples were analysed. 
Ciprofloxacin (antibiotic), cetirizine (anti-allergy), metformin 
(anti-diabetes), metronidazole (antibiotic) and omeprazole (gastric therapy) 
were reported by pharmacies to be the PhACs most commonly sold in the study 
area. Chemical analysis of water samples revealed that trimethoprim (antibiotic) 
and sulfamethoxazole (antibiotic) were the dominant PhACs in water from all 
sites except Lake Victoria. Other PhACs such as atenolol (anti-hypertensive), 
carbamazepine (anti-epileptic) and diclofenac (anti-inflammatory) were also 
found at all study sites except Lake Victoria. ∑PhACs in effluent from Bugolobi 
WWTP (13000-37,600 ng L-1) was higher than in the corresponding influent 
(4000-28,000 ng L-1), indicating poor removal of PhACs within the WWTP. ∑PhACs 
decreased by a factor of 2-6 between Bugolobi WWTP effluent and Nakivubo channel 
(5700 ng L-1), due to dilution and sorption to channel sediment, and by a factor 
of 1-3 between the Nakivubo channel and Nakivubo wetland (3900-5400 ng L-1), due 
to sorption to sediment and uptake by plants in the wetland. No detectable 
levels of PhACs were found in water from Lake Victoria. Overall, this 
investigation demonstrated that PhACs in wastewater enter Nakivubo water system. 
Thus, Bugolobi WWTP needs to be upgraded to improve PhACs removal from 
wastewater. Considering the high occurrence of antibiotics in the water system 
in Kampala, development and spread of antimicrobial resistance within the area 
should also be investigated.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.136347
PMID: 31923689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest We, the 
authors, declare no competing interests, nor financial or personal relationships 
with other people or organizations that could inappropriately influence this 
work.
