1. Pharmaceutics. 2020 Jan 7;12(1):49. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics12010049.

Extended Intake of Mulberry Leaf Extract Delayed Metformin Elimination via 
Inhibiting the Organic Cation Transporter 2.

Huh HW(1), Na YG(1), Bang KH(1), Kim SJ(1), Kim M(1), Kim KT(2), Kang JS(1), Kim 
YH(1), Baek JS(3), Lee HK(1), Cho CW(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Chungnam National University, Daejeon 34134, Korea.
(2)Food Science and Technology Major, Division of Applied Bioengineering, 
College of Engineering, Dong-Eui University, Busan 47340, Korea.
(3)Department of Herbal Medicine Resource, Kangwon National University, Samcheok 
25949, Korea.

Diabetes mellitus (DM) has become a major health problem in most countries of 
the world. DM causes many complications, including hyperglycemia, diabetic 
ketoacidosis, and death. In Asia, mulberry has been used widely in the treatment 
of DM. Combination of drugs with herbal medicine may reduce the unwanted side 
effects caused by drugs. In this study, the influence of extended mulberry 
leaves extract (MLE) intake on metformin (Met) was evaluated in terms of 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in DM-induced rats. Three week-treatment 
of MLE alone produced the anti-hyperglycemic effect (around 24%) if compared to 
the control. Interestingly, Met administration after MLE treatment for 3 weeks 
enhanced about 49% of the anti-hyperglycemic effect of Met. In addition, the 
extended intake of MLE potentiated the anti-hyperglycemic effect of Met on 
various concentrations. This potentiated anti-hyperglycemic effect of Met 
appears to be due to the pharmacokinetic change of Met. In this study, 3 
week-treatment of MLE reduced the elimination of Met in DM-induced rats. In 
addition, MLE reduced the human organic cation transporter 2 (hOCT2) activity in 
a concentration-dependent manner. Thus, these findings suggest that MLE lowered 
the elimination of Met via inhibiting the hOCT2.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics12010049
PMCID: PMC7022228
PMID: 31936070

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
