1. Cells. 2020 Jan 7;9(1):144. doi: 10.3390/cells9010144.

Metformin Inhibits Tumor Metastasis through Suppressing Hsp90α Secretion in an 
AMPKα1-PKCγ Dependent Manner.

Gong Y(1)(2)(3), Wang C(1)(2)(3), Jiang Y(1)(2)(3), Zhang S(1)(2)(3), Feng 
S(1)(2)(3), Fu Y(1)(2)(3), Luo Y(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)The National Engineering Laboratory for Anti-Tumor Protein Therapeutics, 
Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
(2)Beijing Key Laboratory for Protein Therapeutics, Tsinghua University, Beijing 
100084, China.
(3)Cancer Biology Laboratory, School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing 100084, China.

Metformin has been documented in epidemiological studies to mitigate tumor 
progression. Previous reports show that metformin inhibits tumor migration in 
several cell lines, such as MCF-7 and H1299, but the mechanisms whereby 
metformin exerts its inhibitory effects on tumor metastasis remain largely 
unknown. The secreted proteins in cancer cell-derived secretome have been 
reported to play important roles in tumor metastasis, but whether metformin has 
an effect on tumor secretome remains unclear. Here we show that metformin 
inhibits tumor metastasis by suppressing Hsp90α (heat shock protein 90α) 
secretion. Mass spectrometry (MS) analysis and functional validation identify 
that eHsp90α (extracellular Hsp90α) is one of the most important secreted 
proteins for metformin to inhibit tumor cells migration, invasion and metastasis 
both in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, we find that metformin inhibits Hsp90α 
secretion in an AMPKα1 dependent manner. Our data elucidate that AMPKα1 
(AMP-activated protein kinase α1) decreases the phosphorylation level of Hsp90α 
by inhibiting the kinase activity of PKCγ (protein kinase Cγ), which suppresses 
the membrane translocation and secretion of Hsp90α. Collectively, our results 
illuminate that metformin inhibits tumor metastasis by suppressing Hsp90α 
secretion in an AMPKα1 dependent manner.

DOI: 10.3390/cells9010144
PMCID: PMC7016760
PMID: 31936169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
