1. Int J Pharm. 2020 Feb 25;576:119004. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2019.119004. Epub 
2020 Jan 11.

Continuous twin screw granulation: A complex interplay between formulation 
properties, process settings and screw design.

Portier C(1), Pandelaere K(1), Delaet U(2), Vigh T(2), Di Pretoro G(2), De Beer 
T(3), Vervaet C(1), Vanhoorne V(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Technology, Department of Pharmaceutics, Ghent 
University, Ottergemsesteenweg 460, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium.
(2)Pharmaceutical Research and Development, Division of Janssen Pharmaceutica, 
Johnson & Johnson, Turnhoutseweg 30, B-2340 Beerse, Belgium.
(3)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Process Analytical Technology, Department of 
Pharmaceutical Analysis, Ghent University, Ottergemsesteenweg 460, B-9000 Ghent, 
Belgium.
(4)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Technology, Department of Pharmaceutics, Ghent 
University, Ottergemsesteenweg 460, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Valerie.Vanhoorne@UGent.be.

Due to the numerous advantages over batch manufacturing, continuous 
manufacturing techniques such as twin screw wet granulation are rapidly gaining 
importance in pharmaceutical production. Since a large knowledge gap on the 
importance of formulation variables exists, this study systematically assessed 
the impact of different screw configurations and process settings on eight model 
formulations, varying in filler type, active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) 
characteristics and drug load. Although liquid to solid (L/S) ratio was the most 
influential variable for all formulations, also a large effect of the kneading 
element thickness was observed. Narrow kneading elements with a length to 
diameter ratio (L/D) of 1/6 had a significant detrimental effect on granule 
size, flow and strength compared to 1/4 L/D elements. The effects of kneading 
element distribution and barrel fill level were less pronounced. At low drug 
load, both filler types could be used to obtain granules with acceptable 
critical quality attributes (CQAs) for both APIs. Granulation at high drug load 
of the poorly soluble, poorly wettable API mebendazole proved challenging as it 
could not be processed using lactose as filler, in contrast to lactose/MCC. As 
formulations containing lactose/MCC as filler were less influenced by different 
screw configurations, process settings and API characteristics than formulations 
without MCC, lactose/MCC/HPMC was considered a promising platform formulation.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2019.119004
PMID: 31935475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.
