1. Behav Sci (Basel). 2020 Jan 10;10(1):33. doi: 10.3390/bs10010033.

Associations of Patient Mood, Modulators of Quality of Life, and Pharmaceuticals 
with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Survival Duration.

Bond L(1), Bowen G(1), Mertens B(1), Denson K(1)(2), Jordan K(1), Vidakovic 
B(3), Mitchell CS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology & Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA 30332, USA.
(2)School of Medicine, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, Augusta, 
GA 30912, USA.
(3)Department of Industrial & Systems Engineering, Georgia Institute of 
Technology, Atlanta, GA 30332, USA.

Associations of modulators of quality of life (QoL) and survival duration are 
assessed in the fatal motor neuron disease, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. Major 
categories include clinical impression of mood (CIM); physical health; patient 
social support; and usage of interventions, pharmaceuticals, and supplements. 
Associations were assessed at p < 0.05 and p < 0.001 significance thresholds 
using applicable methods (Chi-square, t-test, ANOVA, logistical regression, 
random forests, Fisher's exact test) within a retrospective cohort of 1585 
patients. Factors significantly correlated with positive (happy or normal) mood 
included family support and usage of bi-level positive airway pressure (Bi-PAP) 
and/or cough assist. Decline in physical factors like presence of dysphagia, 
drooling, general pain, and decrease in ALSFRS-R total score or forced vital 
capacity (FVC) significantly correlated with negative (depressed or anxious) 
mood (p < 0.05). Use of antidepressants or pain medications had no association 
with ALS patient mood (p > 0.05), but were significantly associated with 
increased survival (p < 0.05). Positive patient mood, Bi-PAP, cough assist, 
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG), and accompaniment to clinic visits 
associated with increased survival duration (p < 0.001). Of the 47 most 
prevalent pharmaceutical and supplement categories, 17 associated with 
significant survival duration increases ranging +4.5 to +16.5 months. Tricyclic 
antidepressants, non-opioids, muscle relaxants, and vitamin E had the highest 
associative increases in survival duration (p < 0.05). Random forests, which 
examined complex interactions, identified the following pharmaceuticals and 
supplements as most predictive to survival duration: Vitamin A, multivitamin, 
PEG supplements, alternative herbs, antihistamines, muscle relaxants, stimulant 
laxatives, and antispastics. Statins, metformin, and thiazide diuretics had 
insignificant associations with decreased survival.

DOI: 10.3390/bs10010033
PMCID: PMC7016647
PMID: 31936812

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.
