1. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2020 May 13;12(19):21231-21241. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.9b17747. Epub 2020 Jan 14.

Biguanide-Derived Polymeric Nanoparticles Kill MRSA Biofilm and Suppress 
Infection In Vivo.

Li J(1), Zhong W(1), Zhang K(1), Wang D(2), Hu J(2), Chan-Park MB(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Antimicrobial Bioengineering, School of Chemical and Biomedical 
Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, 62 Nanyang Drive, 637459 
Singapore.
(2)Institute of Drug Discovery Technology, Ningbo University, Ningbo 315000, 
China.
(3)Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, 59 
Nanyang Drive, 636921 Singapore.

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a significant cause of 
drug-resistant infections. Its propensity to develop biofilms makes it 
especially resistant to conventional antibiotics. We present a novel 
nanoparticle (NP) system made from biocompatible F-127 surfactant, tannic acid 
(TA), and biguanide-based polymetformin (PMET) (termed FTP NPs), which can kill 
MRSA biofilm bacteria effectively in vitro and in vivo and which has excellent 
biocompatibility. FTP NPs exhibit biofilm bactericidal activity-ability to kill 
bacteria both inside and outside biofilm-significantly better than many 
antimicrobial peptides or polymers. At low concentrations (8-32 μg/mL) in vitro, 
FTP NPs outperformed PMET with ∼100-fold (∼2 log10) greater reduction of MRSA 
USA300 biofilm bacterial cell counts, which we attribute to the antifouling 
property of the hydrophilic poly(ethylene glycol) contributed by F-127. Further, 
in an in vivo murine excisional wound model, FTP NPs achieved 1.8 log10 
reduction of biofilm-associated MRSA USA300 bacteria, which significantly 
outperformed vancomycin (0.8 log10 reduction). Moreover, in vitro cytotoxicity 
tests showed that FTP NPs have less toxicity than PMET toward mammalian cells, 
and in vivo intravenous injection of FTP NPs at 10 mg/kg showed no acute 
toxicity to mice with negligible body weight loss and no significant 
perturbation of blood biomarkers. These biguanide-based FTP NPs are a promising 
approach to therapy of MRSA infections.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.9b17747
PMID: 31934739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
