1. Endocr Res. 2020 Feb-May;45(2):147-161. doi: 10.1080/07435800.2020.1713802.
Epub  2020 Jan 18.

Therapeutic Effects of SGLT2 Inhibitor Ipragliflozin and Metformin on NASH in 
Type 2 Diabetic Mice.

Tahara A(1), Takasu T(1).

Author information:
(1)Drug Discovery Research, Astellas Pharma Inc., Ibaraki, Japan.

Background and aim: Sodium-glucose cotransporter (SGLT) 2 is responsible for 
most of the glucose reabsorption in the kidneys and has been proposed as a novel 
therapeutic target for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. In recent years, 
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), the pathogenesis of which is strongly 
associated with insulin resistance, obesity, and type 2 diabetes, has become a 
considerable healthcare burden worldwide. However, there is currently no 
established pharmacotherapy for NASH. Here, we investigated the therapeutic 
effects of the SGLT2 selective inhibitor ipragliflozin alone and in combination 
with metformin on NASH in high fat and cholesterol diet-fed KK/Ay type 2 
diabetic mice.Results: This diabetic model had hyperglycemia, insulin 
resistance, and obesity, and also exhibited steatosis, inflammation, and 
fibrosis in the liver, pathological features resembling those in human NASH. 
Four-week repeated administration of ipragliflozin significantly improved not 
only hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, and obesity but also hyperlipidemia and 
NASH-associated symptoms including hepatic steatosis and fibrosis. In addition, 
ipragliflozin attenuated inflammation and oxidative stress in the liver. 
Repeated administration of metformin also significantly improved symptoms of 
type 2 diabetes with NASH to a comparable degree to that by ipragliflozin. In 
addition, combination treatment with ipragliflozin and metformin additively 
improved these symptoms.Conclusions: These results demonstrate that the SGLT2 
selective inhibitor ipragliflozin improves not only hyperglycemia but also NASH 
in type 2 diabetic mice, suggesting that treatment with ipragliflozin alone and 
in combination with metformin may be effective for treating type 2 diabetes with 
NASH.

DOI: 10.1080/07435800.2020.1713802
PMID: 31955626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
