1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Jan 17;21(2):619. doi: 10.3390/ijms21020619.

Metformin Mitigates Nickel-Elicited Angiopoietin-Like Protein 4 Expression via 
HIF-1α for Lung Tumorigenesis.

Kang YT(1), Hsu WC(2), Ou CC(3), Tai HC(4), Hsu HT(4), Yeh KT(4), Ko JL(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medicine, Chung-Shan Medical University, Taichung 402, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Tungs' Taichung Metro Harbor 
Hospital, Taichung 435, Taiwan.
(3)School of Nutrition, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung 402, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Pathology, Changhua Christian Hospital, Changhua 500, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Medical Oncology and Chest Medicine, Chung Shan Medical 
University Hospital, Taichung 402, Taiwan.

Nickel (Ni), which is a carcinogenic workplace hazard, increases the risk of 
lung cancer. Angiopoietin-like protein 4 (ANGPTL4) is a multifunctional cytokine 
that is involved in both angiogenesis and metastasis, but its role in lung 
cancer is still not clear. In this study, we assessed the role of ANGPTL4 in 
lung carcinogenesis under nickel exposure and investigated the effects of the 
antidiabetic drug metformin on ANGPTL4 expression and lung cancer 
chemoprevention. Our results showed that ANGPTL4 is increased in NiCl2-treated 
lung cells in a dose- and time-course manner. The expression of ANGPTL4 and 
HIF-1α induced by NiCl2 were significantly repressed after metformin treatment. 
The downregulation of HIF-1α expression by ROS savenger and HIF-1α inhibitor or 
knockdown by lentiviral shRNA infection diminished NiCl2-activated ANGPTL4 
expression. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and the luciferase assay revealed that 
NiCl2-induced HIF-1α hypoxia response element interactions activate ANGPTL4 
expression, which is then inhibited by metformin. In conclusion, the increased 
presence of ANGPTL4 due to HIF-1α accumulation that is caused by nickel in lung 
cells may be one mechanism by which nickel exposure contributes to lung cancer 
progression. Additionally, metformin has the ability to prevent NiCl2-induced 
ANGPTL4 through inhibiting HIF-1α expression and its binding activity. These 
results provide evidence that metformin in oncology therapeutics could be a 
beneficial chemopreventive agent.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21020619
PMCID: PMC7014330
PMID: 31963541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.
