1. Curr Pharm Des. 2020;26(9):932-945. doi: 10.2174/1381612826666200122124116.

Pharmacological Strategies for Insulin Sensitivity in Obesity and Cancer: 
Thiazolidinediones and Metformin.

Biondo LA(1), Teixeira AAS(1), de O S Ferreira KC(1), Neto JCR(1).

Author information:
(1)Immunometabolism Research Group, Department of Cell Biology and Development, 
Institute of Biomedical Sciences, University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Chronic diseases, such as obesity and cancer, have high prevalence 
rates. Both diseases have hyperinsulinemia, hyperglycemia, high levels of IGF-1 
and inflammatory cytokines in common. Therefore, these can be considered 
triggers for cancer development and growth. In addition, low-grade inflammation 
that modulates the activation of immune cells, cellular metabolism, and 
production of cytokines and chemokines are common in obesity, cancer, and 
insulin resistance. Pharmacological strategies are necessary when a change in 
lifestyle does not improve glycemic homeostasis. In this regard, 
thiazolidinediones (TZD) possess multiple molecular targets and regulate PPARγ 
in obesity and cancer related to insulin resistance, while metformin acts 
through the AMPK pathway.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to review TZD and metformin as 
pharmacological treatments for insulin resistance associated with obesity and 
cancer.
CONCLUSION: Thiazolidinediones restored adiponectin secretion and leptin 
sensitivity, reduced lipid droplets in hepatocytes and orexigen peptides in the 
hypothalamus. In cancer cells, TZD reduced proliferation, production of reactive 
oxygen species, and inflammation by acting through the mTOR and NFκB pathways. 
Metformin has similar effects, though these are AMPK-dependent. In addition, 
both drugs can be efficient against certain side effects caused by chemotherapy.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612826666200122124116
PMID: 31969093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
