1. Antioxidants (Basel). 2020 Jan 19;9(1):84. doi: 10.3390/antiox9010084.

Dendropanax morbifera Protects against Renal Fibrosis in Streptozotocin-Induced 
Diabetic Rats.

Sachan R(1), Kundu A(1), Dey P(1), Son JY(1), Kim KS(1), Lee DE(1), Kim HR(1), 
Park JH(1), Lee SH(1), Kim JH(2), Cao S(3), Lee BM(1), Kwak JH(1), Kim HS(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Sungkyunkwan University, 2066, Seobu-ro, Jangan-gu, Suwon 
16419, Korea.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, College of Medicine, Institute of Health 
Sciences, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju 52727, Korea.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Daniel K. Inouye College of Pharmacy, 
University of Hawai'i at Hilo, 200 West Kawili Street, Hilo, HI 96720, USA.

The aquatic extract of Dendropanax morbifera (DP) is typically consumed as a 
beverage in Korea and China and is also used in various traditional medicines. 
However, the functional role of DP on diabetes-induced renal fibrosis is 
unclear. Here, the protective effects of DP extract against diabetes-induced 
renal fibrosis were evaluated. Streptozotocin (STZ, 60 mg/kg) was injected 
intraperitoneally in rats to induce diabetes. After 5 days, DP extract (25 
mg/kg/day) and metformin (50 mg/kg/day) were administered orally to diabetic 
rats for 28 days. DP administration protected both body and organ weight loss in 
STZ-treated diabetic rats. Significant improvements in serum blood urea nitrogen 
(BUN), creatinine, and oxidative stress parameters were observed in diabetic 
rats by DP administration. DP extract markedly protected diabetic-induced 
histopathological damages in the kidney and pancreas. A significant reduction 
was observed in microalbumin, kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1), selenium binding 
protein-1 (SBP1), and pyruvate kinase muscle isozyme M2 (PKM2) levels in the 
urinary excretion of diabetic rats after the administration of DP extract. The 
expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and fibrosis marker levels were 
significantly reduced in the kidney of diabetic rats. Our results strongly 
indicate that DP extract exhibits protective activity against diabetes-induced 
renal fibrosis through ameliorating oxidative stress and inflammation. 
Therefore, we suggest that DP extract can be used as a preventive agent on the 
progression of diabetic nephropathy and renal fibrosis.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox9010084
PMCID: PMC7023400
PMID: 31963869

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
