1. Molecules. 2020 Jan 17;25(2):392. doi: 10.3390/molecules25020392.

PPARα-Dependent Modulation by Metformin of the Expression of OCT-2 and MATE-1 in 
the Kidney of Mice.

Arruda AC(1), Perilhão MS(1), Santos WA(1), Gregnani MF(1), Budu A(1), Neto 
JCR(2), Estrela GR(3), Araujo RC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biophysics, Federal University of São Paulo, 04039032 São 
Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Department Cell Biology and Development, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, 
University of São Paulo, 05508000 São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Clinical and Experimental Oncology, Discipline of Hematology 
and Haematotherapy, Federal University of São Paulo, 04037002 São Paulo, Brazil.

Metformin is the first-line drug for type 2 diabetes mellitus control. It is 
established that this drug traffics through OCT-2 and MATE-1 transporters in 
kidney tubular cells and is excreted in its unaltered form in the urine. Hereby, 
we provide evidence that points towards the metformin-dependent upregulation of 
OCT-2 and MATE-1 in the kidney via the transcription factor 
proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα). Treatment of wild type mice with 
metformin led to the upregulation of the expression of OCT-2 and MATE-1 by 34% 
and 157%, respectively. An analysis in a kidney tubular cell line revealed that 
metformin upregulated PPARα and OCT-2 expression by 37% and 299% respectively. 
MK-886, a PPARα antagonist, abrogated the OCT-2 upregulation by metformin and 
reduced MATE-1 expression. Conversely, gemfibrozil, an agonist of PPARα, 
elicited the increase of PPARα, OCT-2, and MATE-1 expression by 115%, 144%, and 
376%, respectively. PPARα knockout mice failed to upregulate both the expression 
of OCT-2 and MATE-1 in the kidney upon metformin treatment, supporting the 
PPARα-dependent metformin upregulation of the transporters in this organ. Taken 
together, our data sheds light on the metformin-induced mechanism of transporter 
modulation in the kidney, via PPARα, and this effect may have implications for 
drug safety and efficacy.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25020392
PMCID: PMC7024194
PMID: 31963528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.
