1. Int J Emerg Med. 2020 Jan 22;13(1):2. doi: 10.1186/s12245-020-0261-8.

Euglycemic diabetic ketoacidosis caused by canagliflozin: a case report.

Fukuda M(1)(2), Nabeta M(3), Muta T(3), Fukami K(4), Takasu O(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Kurume University School of 
Medicine, 67 Asahi Kurume, Fukuoka, 830-0011, Japan. 
fukuda_masafumi@med.kurume-u.ac.jp.
(2)Advanced Emergency Medical Service Center, Kurume University Hospital, 
Department of Emergency and Acute Intensive Care Medicine, Kurume University 
School of Medicine, 67 Asahi, Kurume, Fukuoka, 830-0011, Japan. 
fukuda_masafumi@med.kurume-u.ac.jp.
(3)Advanced Emergency Medical Service Center, Kurume University Hospital, 
Department of Emergency and Acute Intensive Care Medicine, Kurume University 
School of Medicine, 67 Asahi, Kurume, Fukuoka, 830-0011, Japan.
(4)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Kurume University School of 
Medicine, 67 Asahi Kurume, Fukuoka, 830-0011, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) is seen relatively frequently in the 
emergency department (ED). DKA is characterized by hyperglycemia, acidosis, and 
ketonemia, and sodium glucose transporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) represent a new 
diabetes medication that has been associated with euglycemic DKA (eu-DKA).
CASE PRESENTATION: A 71-year-old female who was being treated for type 2 
diabetes with canagliflozin, metformin, and saxagliptin orally presented to the 
ED for evaluation of reduced oral intake, malaise, nausea, and abdominal pain. 
Although her blood glucose was not severely elevated (259 mg/dL), there was 
notable ketoacidosis (pH 6.89; CO2, 11.4 mmHg; HCO3, 1.9 mEq/L; base excess, - 
31.3 mmol/L; 3-hydroxybutyric acid > 10,000 μmol/L) was observed. The 
uncontrolled acidosis improved following 3 days of continuous renal replacement 
therapy, but elevated urinary glucose continued for more than 10 days. Ringer's 
lactated fluid supplementation was continued for management of polyurea and 
glucosuria. Urinary glucose turned negative on day 16, and there was improvement 
in the patient's overall state; hence, she was discharged on day 18.
CONCLUSION: Although it is difficult to diagnose eu-DKA because of the absence 
of substantial blood glucose abnormalities in the ED, there is a need to 
consider eu-DKA when evaluating acidosis in a patient treated with SGLT2i. 
Moreover, even after discontinuing the SGLT2i, attention should be given to the 
possibility of continuing glucosuria. Regular measurements of urinary glucose 
should be obtained, and the patient should be monitored for dehydration.

DOI: 10.1186/s12245-020-0261-8
PMCID: PMC6977311
PMID: 31969112

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.
