1. Cells. 2020 Jan 17;9(1):234. doi: 10.3390/cells9010234.

Effect of Cysteine on Methylglyoxal-Induced Renal Damage in Mesangial Cells.

Lee JH(1), Subedi L(1), Kim SY(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Gachon University, #191, Hambakmoero, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon 
21936, Korea.
(2)Gachon Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, Gachon University, #191 
Hambakmoe-ro, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon 21936, Korea.
(3)Gachon Medical Research Institute, Gil Medical Center, Incheon 21565, Korea.

Methylglyoxal (MGO), a highly reactive dicarbonyl compound, is a key precursor 
of the formation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs). MGO and MGO-AGEs 
were reportedly increased in patients with diabetic dysfunction, including 
diabetic nephropathy. The activation of glyoxalase-I (GLO-I) increases MGO and 
MGO-AGE detoxification. MGO-mediated glucotoxicity can also be ameliorated by 
MGO scavengers such as N-acetylcysteine (NAC), aminoguanidine (AG), and 
metformin. In this study, we noted that l-cysteine demonstrated protective 
effects against MGO-induced glucotoxicity in renal mesangial cells. l-cysteine 
prevented MGO-induced apoptosis and necrosis, together with a reduction of 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in MES13 cells. Interestingly, 
l-cysteine significantly reduced MGO-AGE formation and also acted as an MGO-AGE 
crosslink breaker. Furthermore, l-cysteine treatment accelerated MGO catabolism 
to D-lactate via the upregulation of GLO-I. The reduction of AGE formation and 
induction of AGE breakdown, following l-cysteine treatment, further supports the 
potential use of l-cysteine as an alternative for the therapeutic control of 
MGO-induced renal complications in diabetes, especially against diabetic 
nephropathy.

DOI: 10.3390/cells9010234
PMCID: PMC7016887
PMID: 31963523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
