1. Toxicol Sci. 2020 Apr 1;174(2):266-277. doi: 10.1093/toxsci/kfaa003.

Intermittent Starvation Extends the Functional Lifetime of Primary Human 
Hepatocyte Cultures.

Davidson MD(1)(2), Khetani SR(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical Engineering, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, 
Colorado.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, 
Illinois.
(3)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Colorado State University, Fort 
Collins, Colorado.

Primary human hepatocyte (PHH) cultures have become indispensable to mitigate 
the risk of adverse drug reactions in human patients. In contrast to 
dedifferentiating monocultures, coculture with nonparenchymal cells maintains 
PHH functions for 2-4 weeks. However, because the functional lifespan of PHHs in 
vivo is 200-400 days, it is desirable to further prolong PHH functions in vitro 
toward modeling chronic drug exposure and disease progression. Fasting has 
benefits on the longevity of organisms and the health of tissues such as the 
liver. We hypothesized that a culturing protocol that mimics dynamic 
fasting/starvation could activate starvation pathways and prolong PHH functional 
lifetime. To mimic starvation, serum and hormones were intermittently removed 
from the culture medium of micropatterned cocultures (MPCCs) containing PHHs 
organized onto collagen domains and surrounded by 3T3-J2 murine fibroblasts. A 
weekly 2-day starvation optimally prolonged PHH functional lifetime for 6+ weeks 
in MPCCs versus a decline after 3 weeks in nonstarved controls. The 2-day 
starvation also enhanced the functions of PHH monocultures for 2 weeks, 
suggesting direct effects on PHHs. In MPCCs, starvation activated 5' adenosine 
monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and restricted fibroblast 
overgrowth onto PHH islands, thereby maintaining hepatic polarity. The effects 
of starvation on MPCCs were partially recapitulated by activating AMPK using 
metformin or growth arresting fibroblasts via mitomycin-C. Lastly, starved MPCCs 
demonstrated lower false positives for drug toxicity tests and higher 
drug-induced cytochrome-P450 activities versus nonstarved controls even after 5 
weeks. In conclusion, intermittent serum/hormone starvation extends PHH 
functional lifetime toward enabling clinically relevant drug screening.

Â© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Society of Toxicology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/toxsci/kfaa003
PMCID: PMC7098377
PMID: 31977024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
