1. Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2020 May;30(5):858-864. doi: 10.1111/sms.13628. Epub 
2020 Feb 5.

Effect of exercise on key pharmacokinetic parameters related to metformin 
absorption in healthy humans: A pilot study.

Nikolaidis S(1)(2), Virgiliou C(3)(4)(5), Vekiou M(6), Skari A(1), Kechagidou 
A(7), Gika H(3)(4)(8), Theodoridis G(3)(4)(5), Pappas P(2), Leondaritis G(2), 
Mougios V(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Evaluation of Human Biological Performance, School of Physical 
Education and Sport Science, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, 
Greece.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, School of Health Sciences, University of Ioannina, 
Ioannina, Greece.
(3)BIOMIC_AUTh, Center for Interdisciplinary Research and Innovation, Thermi, 
Greece.
(4)FoodOmicsGR RI, Center for Interdisciplinary Research and Innovation, Thermi, 
Greece.
(5)School of Chemistry, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, 
Greece.
(6)Department of Critical Care and Emergency, General Hospital of Grevena, 
Grevena, Greece.
(7)Evexia Rehabilitation Center, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(8)School of Medicine, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, 
Greece.

Exercise is widely accepted as having therapeutic effects; thus, it is important 
to know whether it interacts with medications. The aim of the present pilot 
study was to examine the effect of high-intensity interval exercise (known to 
have antidiabetic action) on key pharmacokinetic parameters related to 
absorption of metformin (the first-line medication against type 2 diabetes). Ten 
healthy men participated in two sessions, spaced one to two weeks apart in 
random, counterbalanced order. In both sessions, participants received 1000 mg 
of metformin orally, 1-1.5 hours after breakfast. Then, they either ran for 
60 minutes at alternating intensity, starting at 40 minutes after metformin 
administration, and rested without food consumption over the next 3 hours or 
they rested without food consumption during the entire testing period. Venous 
blood samples were collected before and at 0.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, and 4.5 hours 
after metformin administration for metformin determination by liquid 
chromatography-mass spectrometry. Capillary blood samples were also collected 
for lactate and glucose measurements. Data from the two sessions were compared 
through Wilcoxon or Student's t test, as appropriate. Maximum plasma 
concentration of metformin (Cmax ) was higher at exercise compared to rest 
(P = .059). Time to reach Cmax (Tmax ) decreased with exercise (P = .009), and 
the area under the metformin concentration vs time curve was higher at exercise 
(P = .047). The addition of exercise to metformin administration did not cause 
hypoglycemia or lactic acidosis. In conclusion, our results provide the first 
evidence that pharmacokinetic values related to metformin absorption are 
affected by exercise.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/sms.13628
PMID: 31975547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
