1. Br J Pharmacol. 2020 May;177(10):2286-2302. doi: 10.1111/bph.14980. Epub 2020 
Feb 8.

HWL-088, a new potent free fatty acid receptor 1 (FFAR1) agonist, improves 
glucolipid metabolism and acts additively with metformin in ob/ob diabetic mice.

Chen Y(1)(2), Ren Q(1), Zhou Z(1), Deng L(1), Hu L(1), Zhang L(1)(2)(3)(4), Li 
Z(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of New Drug Discovery and Evaluation of Ordinary Universities 
of Guangdong Province, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Construction and Application of New Drug 
Screening Model Systems, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou, China.
(4)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Drug Screening, China Pharmaceutical University, 
Nanjing, China.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The free fatty acid receptor 1 (FFAR1) plays an 
important role in glucose-stimulated insulin secretion making it an attractive 
anti-diabetic target. This study characterizes the pharmacological profile of 
HWL-088 (2-(2-fluoro-4-((2'-methyl-[1,1'- biphenyl]-3-yl)methoxy)phenoxy)acetic 
acid), a novel highly potent FFAR1 agonist in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, we 
investigated the long-term effects of HWL-088 alone and in combination with 
metformin in diabetic mice.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: In vitro effects of HWL-088 on FFAR1 and PPARα/γ/δ were 
studied in cell-based assays. Glucose-dependent insulinotropic effects were 
evaluated in MIN6 cell line and in rats. Long-term effects on glucose and lipid 
metabolism were investigated in ob/ob mice.
KEY RESULTS: HWL-088 is a highly potent FFAR1 agonist (EC50 = 18.9 nM) with 
moderate PPARδ activity (EC50 = 570.9 nM) and promotes glucose-dependent insulin 
secretion in vitro and in vivo. Long-term administration of HWL-088 exhibited 
better glucose control and plasma lipid profiles than those of another FFAR1 
agonist, TAK-875, and synergistic improvements were observed when combined with 
metformin. Moreover, HWL-088 and combination therapy improved β-cell function by 
up-regulation of pancreas duodenum homeobox-1, reduced fat accumulation in 
adipose tissue and alleviated fatty liver in ob/ob mice. The effect of HWL-088 
involves a reduction in hepatic lipogenesis and oxidative stress, increased 
lipoprotein lipolysis, glucose uptake, mitochondrial function and fatty acid 
β-oxidation.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: These data indicate that long-term treatment with 
HWL-088, a highly potent FFAR1 agonist, improves glucose and lipid metabolism 
and may be useful for the treatment of diabetes mellitus by mono-therapy or 
combination with metformin.

© 2020 The British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bph.14980
PMCID: PMC7174891
PMID: 31971610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
