1. J Cell Mol Med. 2020 Mar;24(5):2832-2846. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.14834. Epub 2020
Jan  23.

Metformin upregulates mitophagy in patients with T2DM: A randomized 
placebo-controlled study.

Bhansali S(1), Bhansali A(2), Dutta P(2), Walia R(2), Dhawan V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Medicine and Biotechnology, Postgraduate Institute 
of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, India.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, India.

Impaired mitochondrial autophagy (mitophagy) and NLRP3 inflammasome activation 
have been incriminated in the pathogenesis of T2DM. Metformin besides being an 
insulin sensitizer also induces autophagy; however, its effect on mitophagy and 
NLRP3 activation in patients with T2DM still remains elusive. 
Forty-five drug-naïve T2DM patients with HbA1C 7%-9% (53-75 mmol/mol) were 
randomly assigned to receive either metformin, voglibose, or placebo for 
3 months, and were also recommended for lifestyle intervention programme (n = 15 
each). Mitochondrial oxidative stress (MOS) parameters, qPCR and immunoblotting 
of mitophagy-related markers (PINK1, PARKIN, MFN2, NIX, LC3-II, LAMP2), p-AMPKα 
(T172), and NLRP3 proteins, as well as transmission electron microscopy (TEM) 
for assessing mitochondrial morphology were performed in the mononuclear cells 
of study patients. Both metformin and voglibose showed a similar efficacy 
towards the reduction in HbA1c and MOS indices. However, multivariate ANCOVA 
divulged that mRNA and protein expression of mitophagy markers, NLRP3 and 
p-AMPKα (T172), were significantly increased only with metformin therapy. 
Moreover, PINK1 expression displayed a significant positive association with 
HOMA-β indices, and TEM studies further confirmed reduced distortions in 
mitochondrial morphology in the metformin group only. Our observations 
underscore that metformin upregulates mitophagy and subsequently ameliorates the 
altered mitochondrial morphology and function, independent of its 
glucose-lowering effect. Further, restoration of normal mitochondrial phenotype 
may improve cellular function, including β-cells, which may prevent further 
worsening of hyperglycaemia in patients with T2DM.

© 2020 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd and Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.14834
PMCID: PMC7077543
PMID: 31975558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no duality of 
interest associated with this manuscript.
