1. Drug Metab Pharmacokinet. 2020 Feb;35(1):160-164. doi: 
10.1016/j.dmpk.2019.10.007. Epub 2019 Nov 1.

rs622342A>C in SLC22A1 is associated with metformin pharmacokinetics and 
glycemic response.

Naja K(1), El Shamieh S(2), Fakhoury R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science, Beirut Arab 
University, Beirut, Lebanon. Electronic address: najakhaled@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Medical Laboratory Technology, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Beirut Arab University, Beirut, Lebanon. Electronic address: 
s.elshamieh@bau.edu.lb.
(3)Department of Medical Laboratory Technology, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Beirut Arab University, Beirut, Lebanon. Electronic address: 
rfakhoury@bau.edu.lb.

Polymorphisms in SLC22A1 lead to variability in metformin clinical efficacy. 
Sixty-three Lebanese patients with type 2 diabetes who administered metformin, 
were followed up for six months and genotyped for rs622342A>C. The area under 
the plasma concentration-time curve and the maximum concentration of metformin 
was highest in CC patients (P ≤ 0.03). There was a significant difference 
between groups in the percentage decrease in fasting blood sugar (FBS) and 
glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c). Going into the same direction, rs622342C was 
associated with decrease in FBS levels after three and six months of treatment 
(P ≤ 0.02), whereas with HbA1c, the decrease was noticed after six months 
(β = -2.78; P = 0.03). In contrast, the serum levels of lactate and creatinine 
did not vary significantly according to rs622342A>C genotypes. The rs622342A>C 
in SLC22A1 may be associated with metformin pharmacokinetics and variability in 
therapeutic efficacy.

Copyright © 2019 The Japanese Society for the Study of Xenobiotics. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dmpk.2019.10.007
PMID: 31974043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.
