1. Neuroreport. 2020 Mar 4;31(4):305-310. doi: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000001401.

Effects of metformin on lipopolysaccharide-induced depressive-like behavior in 
mice and its mechanisms.

Yang S(1)(2), Chen X(1)(2), Xu Y(1)(2), Hao Y(3), Meng X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, School of Basic Medicine, Tongji Medical College.
(2)Institute of Brain Research.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.

Metformin, an AMPK activator, is a widely used medicine for type II diabetes, 
which has been considered to exert the anti-inflammatory effects. It has been 
reported that inflammation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of 
depression. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is often utilized to induce depressive-like 
behavior in mice with respect to recent studies. However, whether metformin 
alleviates the symptoms of depressive-like behaviors and its mechanisms remain 
unexplored. The present study investigates whether metformin alleviates 
LPS-induced depressive-like behavior in mice and aims to explore the mechanisms. 
We first treated adult mice with LPS (0.83  mg/kg, intraperitoneal) to induce 
depressive-like behavior model for 24  hours after treatment with or without 
metformin. Then, the effects of metformin on depressive-like behaviors were 
detected by tail suspension test and forced swim test. Moreover, quantitative 
RT-PCR was used to determine the mRNA expression levels of lipocalin 2 (Lcn-2) 
and inflammatory molecules including IL-1β, IL-6 and von Willebrand factor 
(vWF), which are concerned with inflammation and Lcn-2. It was shown that 
LPS-induced mouse depressive-like behaviors, as indicated by the increased time 
of immobility in tail suspension test and forced swim test, were reversed by 
metformin. It was also shown that LPS increased the mRNA expression levels of 
Lcn-2 and inflammation-related molecules such as IL-1β in the amygdala tissue, 
which could be alleviated by metformin. Taken together, metformin mitigates 
LPS-induced depressive-like behavior in mice by regulating the expression level 
of Lcn-2 and inflammation-related molecules, including IL-1β, IL-6 and vWF.Video 
abstract: http://links.lww.com/WNR/A568.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000001401
PMID: 31977586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
