1. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2020 Mar 1;128(3):523-533. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.00546.2019. Epub 2020 Jan 23.

Spinal AMP kinase activity differentially regulates phrenic motor plasticity.

Perim RR(1), Fields DP(1), Mitchell GS(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Respiratory Research and Rehabilitation, Department of Physical 
Therapy and McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, 
Florida.

Acute intermittent hypoxia (AIH) elicits phrenic motor plasticity via multiple 
distinct cellular mechanisms. With moderate AIH, phrenic motor facilitation 
(pMF) requires Gq protein-coupled serotonin type 2 receptor activation, ERK MAP 
kinase activity, and new synthesis of brain-derived neurotrophic factor. In 
contrast, severe AIH elicits pMF by an adenosine-dependent mechanism that 
requires exchange protein activated by cAMP, Akt, and mammalian target of 
rapamycin (mTOR) activity, followed by new tyrosine receptor kinase B protein 
synthesis; this same pathway is also initiated by Gs protein-coupled serotonin 7 
receptors (5-HT7). Because the metabolic sensor AMP-activated protein kinase 
(AMPK) inhibits mTOR-dependent protein synthesis, and mTOR signaling is 
necessary for 5-HT7 but not 5-HT2 receptor-induced pMF, we hypothesized that 
spinal AMPK activity differentially regulates pMF elicited by these distinct 
receptor subtypes. Serotonin type 2A receptor [5-HT2A; 
(Â±)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine hydrochloride] or 5-HT7 (AS-19) receptor 
agonists were administered intrathecally at C4 (3 injections, 5-min intervals) 
while recording integrated phrenic nerve activity in anesthetized, vagotomized, 
paralyzed, and ventilated rats. Consistent with our hypothesis, spinal AMPK 
activation with 2-deoxyglucose or metformin blocked 5-HT7, but not 5-HT2A 
receptor-induced pMF; in both cases, pMF inhibition was reversed by spinal 
administration of the AMPK inhibitor compound C. Thus, AMPK differentially 
regulates cellular mechanisms of serotonin-induced phrenic motor plasticity.NEW 
& NOTEWORTHY Spinal AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) overactivity, induced by 
local 2-deoxyglucose or metformin administration, constrains serotonin 7 (5-HT7) 
receptor-induced (but not serotonin type 2A receptor-induced) respiratory motor 
facilitation, indicating that metabolic challenges might regulate specific forms 
of respiratory motor plasticity. Pharmacological blockade of spinal AMPK 
activity restores 5-HT7 receptor-induced respiratory motor facilitation in the 
presence of either 2-deoxyglucose or metformin, showing that AMPK is an 
important regulator of 5-HT7 receptor-induced respiratory motor plasticity.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00546.2019
PMCID: PMC7099442
PMID: 31971473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No conflicts of interest, financial or 
otherwise, are declared by the authors.
