1. J Biol Chem. 2020 Mar 6;295(10):3330-3346. doi: 10.1074/jbc.RA120.012533. Epub
 2020 Jan 23.

Metformin lowers glucose 6-phosphate in hepatocytes by activation of glycolysis 
downstream of glucose phosphorylation.

Moonira T(1), Chachra SS(1), Ford BE(1), Marin S(2), Alshawi A(1), Adam-Primus 
NS(1), Arden C(1), Al-Oanzi ZH(1), Foretz M(3), Viollet B(3), Cascante M(2), 
Agius L(4).

Author information:
(1)Biosciences Institute, Newcastle University, Medical School, Newcastle upon 
Tyne NE2 4HH, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biomedicine, Faculty of Biology, 
Universitat de Barcelona, 08007 Barcelona, Spain; CIBEREHD and Metabolomics Node 
at INB-Bioinformatics Platform, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 28029 Madrid, 
Spain.
(3)INSERM, U1016, Institut Cochin, Paris 75014, France; CNRS, UMR8104, Paris 
75014, France; Université Paris Descartes, Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris 75014, 
France.
(4)Biosciences Institute, Newcastle University, Medical School, Newcastle upon 
Tyne NE2 4HH, United Kingdom. Electronic address: loranne.agius@ncl.ac.uk.

The chronic effects of metformin on liver gluconeogenesis involve repression of 
the G6pc gene, which is regulated by the carbohydrate-response element-binding 
protein through raised cellular intermediates of glucose metabolism. In this 
study we determined the candidate mechanisms by which metformin lowers glucose 
6-phosphate (G6P) in mouse and rat hepatocytes challenged with high glucose or 
gluconeogenic precursors. Cell metformin loads in the therapeutic range lowered 
cell G6P but not ATP and decreased G6pc mRNA at high glucose. The G6P lowering 
by metformin was mimicked by a complex 1 inhibitor (rotenone) and an uncoupler 
(dinitrophenol) and by overexpression of mGPDH, which lowers glycerol 
3-phosphate and G6P and also mimics the G6pc repression by metformin. In 
contrast, direct allosteric activators of AMPK (A-769662, 991, and C-13) had 
opposite effects from metformin on glycolysis, gluconeogenesis, and cell G6P. 
The G6P lowering by metformin, which also occurs in hepatocytes from AMPK 
knockout mice, is best explained by allosteric regulation of 
phosphofructokinase-1 and/or fructose bisphosphatase-1, as supported by 
increased metabolism of [3-3H]glucose relative to [2-3H]glucose; by an increase 
in the lactate m2/m1 isotopolog ratio from [1,2-13C2]glucose; by lowering of 
glycerol 3-phosphate an allosteric inhibitor of phosphofructokinase-1; and by 
marked G6P elevation by selective inhibition of phosphofructokinase-1; but not 
by a more reduced cytoplasmic NADH/NAD redox state. We conclude that 
therapeutically relevant doses of metformin lower G6P in hepatocytes challenged 
with high glucose by stimulation of glycolysis by an AMP-activated protein 
kinase-independent mechanism through changes in allosteric effectors of 
phosphofructokinase-1 and fructose bisphosphatase-1, including AMP, Pi, and 
glycerol 3-phosphate.

© 2020 Moonira et al.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.RA120.012533
PMCID: PMC7062158
PMID: 31974165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest with the contents of this article
