1. Materials (Basel). 2020 Jan 22;13(3):514. doi: 10.3390/ma13030514.

Novel Metformin-Based Schiff Bases: Synthesis, Characterization, and 
Antibacterial Evaluation.

Al-Qadsy I(1), Saeed WS(2), Al-Odayni AB(2), Ahmed Saleh Al-Faqeeh L(3), 
Alghamdi AA(2), Farooqui M(1).

Author information:
(1)Maulana Azad of Arts, Science and Commerce, P.O. Box 27, Aurangabad 431001, 
India.
(2)Chemistry Department, College of Science, King Saud University, P.O. Box 
2455, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Microbiology Department, Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University, P.O. 
Box 27, Aurangabad 431004, India.

Novel Schiff bases of metformin hydrochloride and (ortho)para-nitrobenzaldehyde 
were synthesized by employing two efficient environmentally friendly methods, 
namely, stirring and microwave-assisted methods using water as the solvent. The 
advantage of microwave irradiation over the other methods was represented in the 
reduction of reaction time and wastes, and good yields; however, water in both 
methods plays the role of eco-friendly solvent. The structural properties of the 
(ortho)para-isomer products were analyzed by elemental analysis, Fourier 
transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, UV-Visible (UV-Vis) spectroscopy, 1H 
nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, 13C NMR spectroscopy, mass 
spectroscopy, and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). The newly synthesized 
compounds were screened for their antibacterial activity against selected 
Gram-positive (ATCC 25923, ATCC 43300, and ATCC 29212) and Gram-negative (ATCC 
25922, ATCC 27853, and ATCC 700603) bacteria using the agar well diffusion 
method. Compared with the standard drug streptomycin, both Schiff bases 
exhibited moderate bactericidal activity against the tested bacteria with higher 
values of ortho-nitro compared with the para-nitro isomer; however, no effect on 
ATCC 43300 and ATCC 27853 was observed under the experimental conditions 
employed.

DOI: 10.3390/ma13030514
PMCID: PMC7040619
PMID: 31978979

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
