1. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2020 Feb;85(2):331-343. doi: 
10.1007/s00280-020-04033-z. Epub 2020 Jan 27.

Novel complementary antitumour effects of celastrol and metformin by targeting 
IκBκB, apoptosis and NLRP3 inflammasome activation in diethylnitrosamine-induced 
murine hepatocarcinogenesis.

Saber S(1), Ghanim AMH(2), El-Ahwany E(3), El-Kader EMA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Delta University for Science 
and Technology, International Coastal Road, Gamasa City, P.O. Box: +11152, 
Mansoura, Dakahlia, Egypt. Sameh.mohamed@deltauniv.edu.eg.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Delta University for Science 
and Technology, Gamasa City, Mansoura, Egypt.
(3)Department of Immunology, Theodor Bilharz Research Institute, Giza, Egypt.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Delta University for Science 
and Technology, International Coastal Road, Gamasa City, P.O. Box: +11152, 
Mansoura, Dakahlia, Egypt.

One promising strategy for minimizing chemotherapeutic resistance in 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the use of effective chemosensitizers. We 
studied the complementary multi-targeted molecular mechanisms of metformin and 
celastrol in mice with diethylnitrosamine-induced HCC to investigate whether 
metformin could augment the sensitivity of HCC tissue to the effect of 
celastrol. Simultaneous administration of celastrol (2 mg/kg) and metformin 
(200 mg/kg) improved liver function, enhanced the histological picture and 
prolonged survival. Additionally, combination therapy exerted anti-inflammatory 
activity, as indicated by the decreased levels of TNF-α and IL-6. This 
protective role could be attributed to inhibition of inflammasome activation. 
Herein, our data revealed downregulated NLRP3 gene expression, suppressed 
caspase-1 activity and reduced levels of the active forms of IL-1β and IL-18. 
Under this condition, pyroptotic activity was suppressed. In contrast, in the 
celastrol and celastrol + metformin groups, the apoptotic potential was 
amplified, as revealed by the increase in the caspase-9 and caspase-3 levels and 
Bax:BCL-2 ratio. In addition to their repressive effect on the gene expression 
of NFκBp65, TNFR and TLR4, metformin and celastrol inhibited 
phosphorylation-induced activation of IκBκB and NFκBp65 and decreased IκBα 
degradation. Combination therapy with metformin and celastrol repressed markers 
of angiogenesis, metastasis and tumour proliferation, as revealed by the 
decreased hepatic levels of VEGF, MMP-2/9 and cyclin D1 mRNA, respectively. In 
conclusion, by inhibiting NLRP3 inflammasome and its prerequisite NFκB 
signalling, simultaneous administration of metformin and celastrol appears to 
have additive benefits in the treatment of HCC compared to cela monotherapy. 
This effect warrants further clinical investigation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00280-020-04033-z
PMID: 31989218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
