1. Ann Endocrinol (Paris). 2020 Feb;81(1):51-60. doi: 10.1016/j.ando.2019.10.003.
 Epub 2019 Dec 16.

Lipodystrophic syndromes: From diagnosis to treatment.

Sollier C(1), Vatier C(2), Capel E(1), Lascols O(3), Auclair M(1), Janmaat S(4), 
Fève B(2), Jéru I(3), Vigouroux C(5).

Author information:
(1)Sorbonne Université, Inserm UMR_S 938, Centre de Recherche Saint-Antoine, 
Institut Hospitalo-Universitaire de Cardio-métabolisme et Nutrition (ICAN), 
Paris, France.
(2)Sorbonne Université, Inserm UMR_S 938, Centre de Recherche Saint-Antoine, 
Institut Hospitalo-Universitaire de Cardio-métabolisme et Nutrition (ICAN), 
Paris, France; Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, 
Service d'Endocrinologie, Diabétologie et Endocrinologie de la reproduction, 
Centre national de Référence des Pathologies Rares de l'Insulino - Sécrétion et 
de l'Insulino-Sensibilité (PRISIS), Paris, France.
(3)Sorbonne Université, Inserm UMR_S 938, Centre de Recherche Saint-Antoine, 
Institut Hospitalo-Universitaire de Cardio-métabolisme et Nutrition (ICAN), 
Paris, France; Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, 
Laboratoire Commun de Biologie et Génétique Moléculaires, Paris, France.
(4)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, Service 
d'Endocrinologie, Diabétologie et Endocrinologie de la reproduction, Centre 
national de Référence des Pathologies Rares de l'Insulino - Sécrétion et de 
l'Insulino-Sensibilité (PRISIS), Paris, France.
(5)Sorbonne Université, Inserm UMR_S 938, Centre de Recherche Saint-Antoine, 
Institut Hospitalo-Universitaire de Cardio-métabolisme et Nutrition (ICAN), 
Paris, France; Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, 
Service d'Endocrinologie, Diabétologie et Endocrinologie de la reproduction, 
Centre national de Référence des Pathologies Rares de l'Insulino - Sécrétion et 
de l'Insulino-Sensibilité (PRISIS), Paris, France; Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux 
de Paris, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, Laboratoire Commun de Biologie et Génétique 
Moléculaires, Paris, France. Electronic address: corinne.vigouroux@inserm.fr.

Lipodystrophic syndromes are acquired or genetic rare diseases, characterised by 
a generalised or partial lack of adipose tissue leading to metabolic alterations 
linked to strong insulin resistance. They encompass a variety of clinical 
entities due to primary defects in adipose differentiation, in the structure 
and/or regulation of the adipocyte lipid droplet, or due to immune-inflammatory 
aggressions, chromatin deregulations and/or mitochondrial dysfunctions affecting 
adipose tissue. Diagnosis is based on clinical examination, pathological context 
and comorbidities, and on results of metabolic investigations and genetic 
analyses, which together determine management and genetic counselling. Early 
lifestyle and dietary measures focusing on regular physical activity and 
avoiding excess energy intake are crucial. They are accompanied by 
multidisciplinary follow-up adapted to each clinical form. In case of 
hyperglycemia, antidiabetic medications, with metformin as a first-line therapy 
in adults, are used in addition to lifestyle and dietary modifications. When 
standard treatments have failed to control metabolic disorders, the orphan drug 
metreleptin, an analog of leptin, can be effective in certain forms of 
lipodystrophy syndrome. Metreleptin therapy indications, prescription and 
monitoring were recently defined in France, representing a major improvement in 
patient care.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ando.2019.10.003
PMID: 31982105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
