1. Food Sci Nutr. 2019 Dec 5;8(1):332-339. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.1310. eCollection
2020  Jan.

Assessment of antioxidant and antidiabetic properties of Agaricus blazei Murill 
extracts.

Wei Q(1), Zhan Y(1), Chen B(1), Xie B(2), Fang T(1), Ravishankar S(3), Jiang 
Y(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University Fuzhou 
China.
(2)Mycological Research Center Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University Fuzhou 
China.
(3)School of Animal and Comparative Biomedical Sciences University of Arizona 
Tucson AZ USA.

Agaricus blazei Murill (ABM), a medicinal mushroom, has beneficial effects on 
various human metabolic diseases. The objective of this research was to evaluate 
the antioxidant and antidiabetic properties of ABM extracts (ethanol extract and 
ethyl acetate extract). The antioxidant activities of ABM ethanol extract (EE) 
and ethyl acetate extract (EA) were analyzed using 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl 
(DPPH), 2,2'-azino-bis (3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS), and 
hydroxyl radical scavenging assays and the reducing power using K3Fe(CN)6 in 
vitro. Moreover, the effects of EE and EA on α-glucosidase inhibitory activity 
and improving glucose uptake by HepG2 cells were investigated in vitro. The EA 
showed stronger antioxidant activity, as well as inhibition of α-glucosidase, 
compared to EE. The analysis of glucose uptake by HepG2 cells showed that EA had 
significant glucose-lowering activity and exhibited no difference compared to 
metformin. The results suggest that ABM extracts could improve the glucose 
uptake by HepG2 cells and thereby alleviate postprandial hyperglycemia. This 
investigation provides a strong rationale for further studies on the application 
of ABM to control type 2 diabetes.

© 2019 The Authors. Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals, 
Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.1310
PMCID: PMC6977522
PMID: 31993159

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they do not have any 
conflict of interest.
