1. Toxicol In Vitro. 2020 Jun;65:104785. doi: 10.1016/j.tiv.2020.104785. Epub
2020  Jan 25.

Successful energy shift from glycolysis to mitochondrial oxidative 
phosphorylation in freshly isolated hepatocytes from humanized mice liver.

Ikeyama Y(1), Sato T(1), Takemura A(1), Sekine S(1), Ito K(2).

Author information:
(1)The Laboratory of Biopharmaceutics, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Chiba University, Inohana 1-8-1, Chuo-ku, Chiba 260-8675, Japan.
(2)The Laboratory of Biopharmaceutics, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Chiba University, Inohana 1-8-1, Chuo-ku, Chiba 260-8675, Japan. 
Electronic address: itokousei@chiba-u.jp.

Mitochondrial toxicity is a factor of drug-induced liver injury. Previously, we 
reported an in vitro rat hepatocyte assay where mitochondrial toxicity was more 
sensitively evaluated, using sugar resource substitution and increased oxygen 
supply. Although this method could be applicable to human cell-based assay, 
cryopreserved human hepatocyte (CHH) has some disadvantages/uncertainty, 
including unstable same donor supply and potential organelle damage due to 
cryopreservation. Herein, we compared the mitochondrial functions of 
freshly-isolated hepatocytes from humanized chimeric mice liver (PXB-cells) and 
three CHH lots to determine the better cell source for mitochondrial toxicity 
assay. Two CHH lots declined after replacing glucose with galactose. To confirm 
the shift in energy production from glycolysis to oxidative phosphorylation, 
lactate and oxygen consumption rate (indicators of glycolytic activity and 
mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, respectively) were measured. In 
PXB-cells, lactate amount decreased, while oxygen consumption in 100 min 
increased. These effects were less evident in CHH. The cytotoxicity of the 
select respiratory chain inhibitors was enhanced in PXB-cells upon sugar 
replacement, but no change occurred with negative control drugs (bicalutamide 
and metformin). Altogether, PXB-cells was less vulnerable to sugar resource 
substitution than CHH. The substitution activated mitochondrial function and 
enhanced cytotoxicity of respiratory chain inhibitors in PXB-cells.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tiv.2020.104785
PMID: 31991145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.
