1. Curr Med Res Opin. 2020 May;36(5):741-748. doi: 10.1080/03007995.2020.1722623.
 Epub 2020 Feb 5.

Distance to glycemic goal at the time of treatment intensification in patients 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus failing metformin monotherapy in the United 
States.

Fernandes G(1), Sawhney B(2), Hannachi H(1), Liu J(1), Wang T(1), Fu AZ(3), 
Iglay K(1), McNeill A(1), Rajpathak S(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Observational and Real-world Evidence, Merck and Co., Inc, 
Kenilworth, NJ, USA.
(2)Complete HEOR Solutions (CHEORS), North Wales, PA, USA.
(3)Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington DC, USA.

Background: A substantial proportion of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(T2DM) do not reach their target HbA1c level on metformin. The objective of this 
retrospective observational cohort study is to better characterize the distance 
between HbA1c target and patient's actual HbA1c level (the distance to goal), 
using a target HbA1c of 7.0% (53 mmol/mol), in patients with T2DM who have 
started metformin monotherapy.Methods: We used data from the GE Centricity 
Electronic Medical Record database by IQVIA in 2016 in the United States (US) to 
identify adults with T2DM who started metformin monotherapy (MM) and received at 
least 90 days of treatment. Patients were categorized into three groups: those 
who achieved the goal of HbA1c <7.0%, those who did not achieve the goal of 
HbA1c <7.0% (i.e. failed MM) and received intensified treatment, and those who 
failed MM and did not receive intensified treatment. Distance to goal was 
computed for patients in each group.Results: We identified 20,704 patients in 
the US database who started MM; 1741 (8.4%) failed MM and received intensified 
treatment, while 4977 (24.0%) failed MM and did not receive intensified 
treatment. The mean post-MM HbA1c for those who failed MM and received 
intensified treatment was 8.7% (72 mmol/mol) (median 8.2%, 66 mmol/mol) and the 
mean distance to goal was 1.7% (median 1.2%). The mean post-MM HbA1c for those 
who failed MM and did not receive intensified treatment was 8.0% (64 mmol/mol) 
(median 7.5%, 58 mmol/mol) and the mean distance to goal was 1.0% (median 
0.5%).Conclusion: A proportion of US T2DM patients do not achieve glycemic 
control (target HbA1c < 7.0%) despite 90 days of MM. Patients who failed MM and 
eventually received intensified treatment did so when their HbA1c distance to 
goal exceeded the level at which one add-on therapy alone might be sufficient to 
bring them to goal.

DOI: 10.1080/03007995.2020.1722623
PMID: 31990206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
