1. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2020 Jan 6;2020:9741369. doi: 10.1155/2020/9741369. 
eCollection 2020.

Metformin Promotes Axon Regeneration after Spinal Cord Injury through Inhibiting 
Oxidative Stress and Stabilizing Microtubule.

Wang H(1)(2), Zheng Z(2), Han W(2), Yuan Y(2), Li Y(1), Zhou K(1), Wang Q(1), 
Xie L(2), Xu K(3), Zhang H(2), Xu H(1), Wu Y(3), Xiao J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, The Second Affiliated Hospital and Yuying 
Children's Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Molecular Pharmacology Research Center, School of Pharmaceutical Science, 
Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(3)The Institute of Life Sciences, Engineering Laboratory of Zhejiang Province 
for Pharmaceutical Development of Growth Factors, Biomedical Collaborative 
Innovation Center of Wenzhou, Wenzhou University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, China 
325035.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating disease that may lead to lifelong 
disability. Thus, seeking for valid drugs that are beneficial to promoting 
axonal regrowth and elongation after SCI has gained wide attention. Metformin, a 
glucose-lowering agent, has been demonstrated to play roles in various central 
nervous system (CNS) disorders. However, the potential protective effect of 
metformin on nerve regeneration after SCI is still unclear. In this study, we 
found that the administration of metformin improved functional recovery after 
SCI through reducing neuronal cell apoptosis and repairing neurites by 
stabilizing microtubules via PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. Inhibiting the PI3K/Akt 
pathway with LY294002 partly reversed the therapeutic effects of metformin on 
SCI in vitro and vivo. Furthermore, metformin treatment weakened the excessive 
activation of oxidative stress and improved the mitochondrial function by 
activating the nuclear factor erythroid-related factor 2 (Nrf2) transcription 
and binding to the antioxidant response element (ARE). Moreover, treatment with 
Nrf2 inhibitor ML385 partially abolished its antioxidant effect. We also found 
that the Nrf2 transcription was partially reduced by LY294002 in vitro. Taken 
together, these results revealed that the role of metformin in nerve 
regeneration after SCI was probably related to stabilization of microtubules and 
inhibition of the excessive activation of Akt-mediated Nrf2/ARE 
pathway-regulated oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. Overall, our 
present study suggests that metformin administration may provide a potential 
therapy for SCI.

Copyright Â© 2020 Haoli Wang et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/9741369
PMCID: PMC6969994
PMID: 31998447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors confirm that there are no conflicts 
of interest.
