1. Life Sci. 2020 Apr 1;246:117382. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2020.117382. Epub 2020 Jan
 28.

Metformin rescues Parkin protein expression and mitophagy in high 
glucose-challenged human renal epithelial cells by inhibiting NF-κB via PP2A 
activation.

Zhao Y(1), Sun M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Suizhou Hospital Affiliated to Hubei Medical 
College, China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Suizhou Hospital Affiliated to Hubei Medical 
College, China. Electronic address: ywqiaw@163.com.

Our preliminary research revealed that metformin, a classic anti-diabetic drug, 
could rescue Parkin protein expression and mitophagy in high glucose-challenged 
human renal epithelial cells in vitro, but the molecular mechanism remains to be 
explored. In the study, Human Renal Cortical Epithelial Cells (HRCEpiC) and 
Human Renal Proximal Tubular Epithelial Cells (HRPTEpic) were challenged with 
high glucose with or without metformin pre-treatment to monitor Parkin mRNA and 
protein expression level change. PRKN gene knockdown was performed by 
lentiviral-based shRNA delivery. Cell viability, apoptosis and mitophagy were 
monitored after treatment. Mitochondrial damage was evaluated by analyzing 
mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening, membrane potential change, 
mitochondrial superoxide accumulation and cytochrome C release. Protein levels 
of activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4), p53 phospho-Ser15, IκBα 
phosphor-Ser32, IKKα phosphor-Ser176/180 in whole cell lysate and nuclear entry 
of p50/p65 were assessed by western blot. Okadaic acid was used to inhibit 
protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A). The data suggested high glucose challenge 
significantly reduced PRKN gene expression, mitophagy, mitochondria integrity 
and cell viability in vitro, which was rescued by metformin co-treatment. The 
effects of metformin were crippled by PRKN gene knockdown. Metformin increased 
PRKN gene transcription while reducednuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) activation 
but not that of p53 or ATF4. Inhibiting PP2A weakened NF-κB inhibition and PRKN 
induction by metformin in high glucose-challenged cells, reducing its 
mitochondrial protective and cytoprotective effect. So, we concluded 
thatmetformin protects human renal epithelial cells from high glucose-induced 
apoptosis by restoring Parkin protein expression and mitophagy via PP2A 
activation and NF-κB inhibition.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2020.117382
PMID: 32004509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
