1. Pharmacol Ther. 2020 May;209:107496. doi: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2020.107496.
Epub  2020 Jan 27.

Berberine in the treatment of metabolism-related chronic diseases: A drug cloud 
(dCloud) effect to target multifactorial disorders.

Kong WJ(1), Vernieri C(2), Foiani M(3), Jiang JD(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medicinal Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and 
Peking Union Medical College, 100050 Beijing, China.
(2)Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy; Fondazione 
Istituto FIRC di Oncologia Molecolare, 20139 Milan, Italy.
(3)Fondazione Istituto FIRC di Oncologia Molecolare, 20139 Milan, Italy; 
University of Milan, Italy. Electronic address: marco.foiani@ifom.eu.
(4)Institute of Medicinal Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and 
Peking Union Medical College, 100050 Beijing, China; State Key Laboratory of 
Bioactive Natural Products and Function, Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, 100050 Beijing, 
China. Electronic address: jiangjd@imm.ac.cn.

Berberine (BBR) is a multi-target drug (MTD) that has proven effective in the 
treatment of metabolism-related chronic diseases (CDs). However, the mode of 
action (MOA) of BBR remains to be clarified. At a cellular level, the inhibitory 
effect of BBR on mitochondrial enzymes is probably responsible for many of its 
biological activities, including the activation of low-density lipoprotein 
receptor (LDLR), AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and insulin receptor 
(InsR); these biological activities contribute to ameliorate peripheral blood 
metabolic profiles, e.g. by reducing plasma lipids and glucose levels, thus 
improving signs and symptoms of metabolic disorders. In this perspective, BBR 
acts as a targeted therapy. However, it also exerts pleiotropic systemic 
activities on some root causes of CDs that include antioxidant / 
anti-inflammatory effects and modifications of gut microbiota composition and 
metabolism, which may also contribute to its disease-modifying effects. After 
reviewing the different MOA of BBR, here we propose that BBR acts through a 
drug-cloud (dCloud) mechanism, as different to a drug-target effect. The dCloud 
here is defined as a group of terminal molecular events induced by the drug 
(or/and related metabolites), as well as the network connections among them. In 
this scenario, the therapeutic efficacy of BBR is the result of its dCloud 
effect acting on symptoms/signs as well as on root causes of the diseases. The 
dCloud concept is applicable to other established MTDs, such as aspirin, 
metformin, statins as well as to nutrient starvation, thus providing a novel 
instrument for the design of effective therapies against multifactorial 
metabolism-related CDs.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2020.107496
PMID: 32001311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
have no conflict of interest.
