1. Diabetes Metab. 2020 Jun;46(3):186-196. doi: 10.1016/j.diabet.2020.01.002.
Epub  2020 Jan 30.

Reduction in HbA1c with SGLT2 inhibitors vs. DPP-4 inhibitors as add-ons to 
metformin monotherapy according to baseline HbA1c: A systematic review of 
randomized controlled trials.

Scheen AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of diabetes, nutrition and metabolic disorders, department of 
medicine, CHU Liège, Liège University, Liège, Belgium; Clinical pharmacology 
unit, Centre for interdisciplinary research on medicines (CIRM), CHU Liège, 
Liège University, Liège, Belgium. Electronic address: andre.scheen@chuliege.be.

AIMS: This study compared the reduction of glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) with 
sodium-glucose cotransporter type-2 inhibitors (SGLT2is) vs. dipeptidyl 
peptidase-4 inhibitors (DPP-4is) as add-ons to metformin in patients with type 2 
diabetes mellitus (T2DM), with a specific focus on HbA1c changes according to 
baseline HbA1c.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Electronic databases were scrutinized for randomized 
controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating the reduction of HbA1c from baseline (Δ 
HbA1c) with an SGLT2i or DPP-4i in patients with T2DM not well controlled by 
metformin monotherapy. The endpoint was Δ HbA1c using both indirect and direct 
comparisons.
RESULTS: Overall, Δ HbA1c was slightly greater with SGLT2is (-0.80±0.20% from 
8.03±0.35%; 44 analyses, 29 RCTs, 15 with two doses, n=9321) than with DPP-4is 
(-0.71±0.23% from 8.05±0.43%; 61 analyses, 59 RCTs, n=17,914; P=0.0354). When 
the mean baseline HbA1c was<8% ([64mmol/mol] 7.79±0.15% vs. 7.71±0.23%), Δ HbA1c 
averaged -0.735±0.17% vs. -0.62±0.16% (P=0.0117) with SGLT2is vs. DPP-4is, 
respectively. However, this difference vanished when the mean baseline HbA1c 
was≥8% (-0.87±0.22% from 8.27±0.32% with SGLT2is vs. -0.80±0.24% from 8.35±0.33% 
with DPP-4is; P=0.2756). The relationship between Δ HbA1c and baseline HbA1c was 
only slightly stronger with SGLT2is (slope: -0.39, r2=-0.43; P<0.0001) than with 
DPP-4is (slope: -0.26, r2=-0.25; P<0.0001).
CONCLUSION: Because of the small difference in Δ HbA1c whatever the baseline 
HbA1c level with SGLT2is vs. DPP-4is as add-ons to metformin, choosing between 
these glucose-lowering agents in clinical practice should be based on other 
efficacy criteria (such as weight and blood pressure changes, cardiovascular and 
renal protection) or on safety profiles rather than on HbA1c levels.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabet.2020.01.002
PMID: 32007623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
