1. Eur J Pharmacol. 2020 Apr 5;872:172959. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.172959.
Epub  2020 Jan 29.

Infliximab ameliorates tumor necrosis factor-alpha exacerbated renal insulin 
resistance induced in rats by regulating insulin signaling pathway.

Mohamad HE(1), Asker ME(2), Keshawy MM(3), Abdel Aal SM(4), Mahmoud YK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Zagazig University, Zagazig, 
44519, Egypt. Electronic address: hodael_sayed@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Zagazig University, Zagazig, 
44519, Egypt.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Nephrology Division, Faculty of Medicine, 
Ismailia, 41522, Suez Canal University, Egypt.
(4)Department of Histology& Cell Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Zagazig 
University, Zagazig, 44519, Egypt.

Infliximab (IFX), a monoclonal antibody for tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), 
is known to restore blood glucose homeostasis. However, its effects on improving 
renal insulin resistance (IR) are not yet studied. So we investigate the impact 
of infliximab on renal insulin signaling pathway in IR rat model regarding to 
metformin (MET). The induced IR was confirmed by a high oral glucose tolerance 
test, an elevation of lipid profile and the homeostatic model assessment of 
insulin resistance 2 (HOMA-IR 2) values. Subsequently, IR rats were concurrently 
treated with either MET (100 mg/kg/day) or IFX (one dose 5 mg/kg) besides IR and 
normal control (NC) groups. Four weeks later, IR control rats displayed 
hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia and elevation in HOMA-IR 2, renal function 
markers and renal tissue TNF-α, interleukins-1β and 6 (Il-1β, IL-6) and 
suppressor of cytokines signaling 3 (SOCS3) contents as well as 
glomerulosclerosis when compared to NC group. Additionally, the phosphorylation 
of renal insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase 
(PI3K) and protein kinase B (Akt) were markedly impaired. Treatment with either 
MET or IFX significantly improved IR and kidney functions. The effects of the 
drugs were achieved by the downregulation of renal inflammatory cytokines and 
SOCS3 levels and the amelioration of the renal IRS1/PI3K/Akt pathway. In 
conclusion, MET and IFX ameliorated the TNF-α worsening effect on IR in rat 
renal tissues by regulating insulin signaling. Interestingly, infliximab was 
superior to metformin in regulating insulin signaling pathway. Therefore, 
infliximab could be used as an adjuvant therapy in improving renal IR.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.172959
PMID: 32004528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
