1. Crit Rev Anal Chem. 2021;51(3):278-288. doi: 10.1080/10408347.2020.1718484.
Epub  2020 Jan 31.

Hydrotropic Solubilization in Pharmaceutical Analysis: Origin, Evolution, 
Cumulative Trend and Precise Applications.

Patil MR(1), Ganorkar SB(1), Patil AS(1), Shirkhedkar AA(1), Surana SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Central Instruments Facility (CIF), Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, 
R. C. Patel Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Shirpur, 
Maharashtra, India.

The hydrotropy though existing as precisely used scientific approach assisting 
solubilization for all. It took 66 long years to use the concept in drug 
analysis since its inception in 1916 and first use for facilitation of drug 
solubility toward better pharmaceutical analysis in 1982. Considering the 
unending importance in pharmaceutical sciences and thereby in analysis, it's a 
necessity to comprehensively outlook the origin, evolution, cumulative trend and 
precise applications in pharmaceutical analysis. Achieved hereby with 
chronological and comparative assessment of the studies published pertaining to 
solubility enhancement of poorly soluble drugs with use of hydrotropic agents 
alone or in combination for assisting pharmaceutical analysis. The thorough 
literature searches resulted into 77 references over a span of about 38â€‰years. 
This comprehensive review critically evaluates existing literature; to our 
surprise we found Ibuprofen sodium, Lignocaine, Niacinamide and Metformin HCl as 
atypical hydrotropic agents. We also compared herein mono and mixed approaches 
which indicated prevalence of mono - hydrotropy over mixed. The possible 
mechanisms behind solubilization are presented for an additional insight. An 
essential effort has been made to state arbitrary classification to assist in 
future applications. The obvious purpose of this study was to collectively 
evaluate the crucial role of hydrotropic agents in pharmaceutical analyses for 
better drug delivery. This comprehensive review covers all details since 
inception to the updates till date which will definitely act as appropriate 
guideline for pharmaceutical analyst's in need of hydrotropy to assist 
pharmaceutical analysis for therapies today and tomorrow.

DOI: 10.1080/10408347.2020.1718484
PMID: 32000510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
