1. Brain Res Bull. 2020 Apr;157:18-25. doi: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2020.01.018. 
Epub 2020 Jan 31.

Metformin attenuates sevoflurane-induced neurocognitive impairment through 
AMPK-ULK1-dependent autophagy in aged mice.

Jinpiao Z(1), Zongze Z(1), Qiuyue Y(1), Peng F(1), Qi Z(1), Yanlin W(1), Chang 
C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesiology, Zhongnan Hospital, Wuhan University, East Lake 
Road, Wuhan, Hubei 430071, China.
(2)Department of Anaesthesiology, Zhongnan Hospital, Wuhan University, East Lake 
Road, Wuhan, Hubei 430071, China. Electronic address: changchen@whu.edu.cn.

Neurocognitive impairment risk increases with age and is further enhanced after 
anaesthesia, resulting in significant long-term morbidity and an overall reduced 
quality of life. Metformin activates autophagy, a key process that protects 
against cognitive dysfunction. We hypothesized that metformin mitigates 
sevoflurane-induced neurocognitive impairment by regulating autophagy and 
explored the underlying molecular mechanisms in aged mice. Twenty-month-old mice 
were exposed to 3 % sevoflurane for 2 h with or without metformin pretreatment. 
Cognitive function was assessed using the Morris water maze. Hippocampal 
synaptic integrity was determined by quantifying microtubule-associated protein 
2 (MAP2), postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD95) and synaptic density. 
Autophagy activity and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and ULK1 
phosphorylation in the hippocampus were also measured. Metformin pretreatment 
attenuated the sevoflurane-induced spatial learning and memory impairment. 
Concomitantly, the hippocampal synaptic density and MAP2 and PSD95 
immunoreactivity were significantly reduced by sevoflurane exposure but showed 
partial recovery in the metformin-pretreated group. These metformin-mediated 
neuroprotective effects were abrogated by 3-methyladenine, an autophagy 
inhibitor. Furthermore, sevoflurane anaesthesia decreased autophagic activity, 
but this activity was enhanced by metformin, accompanied by AMPK activation and 
ULK1 phosphorylation. The AMPK inhibitor compound C abolished metformin-induced 
ULK1 phosphorylation and autophagy activation after anaesthesia. These results 
suggest that metformin attenuates sevoflurane-induced neurocognitive impairment 
through AMPK-ULK1-dependent autophagy in aged mice. Metformin could become a 
useful drug to ameliorate cognitive impairment in elderly patients after 
anaesthesia and surgery.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2020.01.018
PMID: 32014566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that there is no conflict of interest.
