1. J Obstet Gynaecol Res. 2020 Feb;46(2):215-222. doi: 10.1111/jog.14155.

New therapeutic approaches for the fertility-sparing treatment of endometrial 
cancer.

Mitsuhashi A(1), Shozu M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Reproductive Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba 
University, Chiba, Japan.

This review seeks to describe new fertility-sparing endometrial cancer (EC) 
treatment strategies that take into consideration the medical and general health 
background of patients. We particularly focus on the application of metformin, 
which is a biguanide widely prescribed for treatment of type 2 diabetes 
mellitus. Fertility-sparing treatment using progestin is considered a standard 
treatment option for patients with atypical endometrial hyperplasia (AEH) and EC 
who desire to conceive. A previous meta-analysis of fertility-sparing treatments 
revealed a high remission rate; however, high rates of relapse persisted. Most 
young patients with AEH and EC who are subjected to fertility-sparing treatment 
have a background of obesity, insulin resistance and abnormal glucose tolerance 
complicated with polycystic ovary syndrome. Recently, metformin has been 
attracting more attention in the field of cancer research. Several in vitro and 
in vivo reports regarding the efficacy of metformin in EC management have 
accumulated. Thus far, the efficacy of combining metformin with progestin has 
been revealed in a single phase II study of medroxyprogesterone acetate in 
combination with metformin as a fertility-sparing treatment for patients with 
AEH or EC. In addition to improving the metabolic profile of patients with EC 
having metabolic disorders, metformin supplementation may improve the long-term 
oncological outcome of these patients. To date, many clinical trials employing 
progestin and metformin as a fertility-sparing treatment of AEH and EC are 
ongoing. In the near future, it is expected that the clinical advantage of 
metformin progestin combination therapy will be clarified.

Â© 2020 Japan Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

DOI: 10.1111/jog.14155
PMID: 32017321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
