1. Aging Dis. 2020 Feb 1;11(1):31-43. doi: 10.14336/AD.2019.0403. eCollection
2020  Feb.

Antidiabetic Drug Metformin Ameliorates Depressive-Like Behavior in Mice with 
Chronic Restraint Stress via Activation of AMP-Activated Protein Kinase.

Ai H(1), Fang W(2), Hu H(3), Hu X(4), Lu W(5).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Physiology, Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 
China.
(2)2Department of Pharmacy, Women's Hospital, School of Medicine, Zhejiang 
University, Zhejiang, China.
(3)3Department of Ophthalmology, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, China.
(4)4Department of Neurobiology, Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology of 
Ministry of Health of China, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Zhejiang, 
China.
(5)5Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Hainan Medical University, 
Haikou, Hainan, China.

Depression is one of the most prevalent neuropsychiatric disorders in modern 
society. However, traditional drugs, such as monoaminergic agents, have defect 
showing lag response requiring several weeks to months. Additionally, these 
drugs have limited efficacy and high resistance rates in patients with 
depression. Thus, there is an urgent need to develop novel drugs or approaches 
for the treatment of depression. Here, using biochemical, pharmacological, 
genetic and behavioral methods, we demonstrate that metformin imparts a 
fast-acting antidepressant-like effect in naïve mice as well as stressed mice 
subjected to chronic restraint stress model. Moreover, inhibition of 
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activity by compound C or knock down of 
hippocampal AMPKα occluded the antidepressant-like effect induced by metformin. 
Our results suggest that metformin may be a viable therapeutic drug for the 
treatment of stress-induced depression via activation of AMPK.

Copyright: © 2019 Ai et al.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2019.0403
PMCID: PMC6961762
PMID: 32010479

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations of interests The authors declare no 
conflict of interest
