1. Redox Rep. 2020 Dec;25(1):1-10. doi: 10.1080/13510002.2020.1722914.

Antioxidant potential of biflavonoid attenuates hyperglycemia by modulating the 
carbohydrate metabolic enzymes in high fat diet/streptozotocin induced diabetic 
rats.

Ramalingam S(1)(2), Karuppiah M(3), Thiruppathi M(4), Palanivelu S(5), 
Panchanatham S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biochemistry, University of Madras, Chennai, India.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Saveetha Dental College & Hospital, Saveetha 
Institute of Medical &Technical Sciences, Saveetha University, Chennai, India.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, Tirunelveli, 
India.
(4)Department of Kinesiology and Nutrition, University of Illinois at Chicago, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology, University of Madras, Chennai, India.

Objectives: The present study was to isolate the biflavonoid (a bimolecular 
kaemferol structured molecule) and test its efficacy on oxidative stress and 
carbohydrate metabolic key enzymes in control and high fat diet and 
streptozotocin -induced diabetic rats.Methods: Type 2 diabetes was induced in 
male albino wistar rats by feeding them with high fat diet comprising of 84.3% 
standard laboratory chow, 5% lard, 10% yolk powder, cholesterol 0.2%, and 0.5% 
bile salt for 2 weeks. After 2 weeks, the animals were kept in an overnight fast 
and injected with low dose of streptozotocin (35 mg/kg, dissolved in 0.1 M 
sodium citrate buffer, pH 4.5).Results: At the end of the experimental period, 
diabetic control rats showed significant increase in plasma glucose, homeostatic 
model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), glycosylated hemoglobin 
(HbA1c) with concomitant decrease in plasma insulin, total hemoglobin and body 
weight. The activities of key enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism, lipid 
peroxidation markers, antioxidant enzymes, glycogen content and glycogen 
synthase and glycogen phosphorylase were also altered in diabetic 
rats.Discussion: Oral administration of biflavonoid to diabetic rats 
significantly ameliorated all the biochemical alterations to near normal levels. 
The effect produced by the biflavonoid on various parameters was comparable to 
that of metformin.

DOI: 10.1080/13510002.2020.1722914
PMCID: PMC7034448
PMID: 32013797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).
