1. Can J Physiol Pharmacol. 2020 Jun;98(6):400-411. doi: 10.1139/cjpp-2019-0570. 
Epub 2020 Feb 4.

Metformin regulates TRPM6, a potential explanation for magnesium imbalance in 
type 2 diabetes patients.

Bouras H(1)(2), Roig SR(1), Kurstjens S(1), Tack CJJ(3), Kebieche M(4), de Baaij 
JHF(1), Hoenderop JGJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Radboud Institute for Molecular Life Sciences, 
Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(2)Faculty of Nature and Life Sciences, University of Mohamed Seddik Ben Yahia, 
Jijel, Algeria.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Radboud Institute for Molecular Life 
Sciences, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(4)Faculty of Nature and Life Sciences, University of Batna2, Algeria.

Metformin therapy is associated with lower serum magnesium (Mg2+) levels in type 
2 diabetes patients. The TRPM6 channel determines the fine-tuning of Mg2+ 
(re)absorption in intestine and kidney. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the 
short- and long-term effects of metformin on TRPM6. Patch clamp recordings and 
biotinylation assays were performed upon 1 h of incubation with metformin in 
TRPM6-transfected HEK293 cells. Additionally, 24 h of treatment of mDCT15 kidney 
and hCaco-2 colon cells with metformin was applied to measure the effects on 
endogenous TRPM6 expression by quantitative real-time PCR. To assess Mg2+ 
absorption, 25Mg2+ uptake measurements were performed using inductively coupled 
plasma mass spectrometry. Short-term effects of metformin significantly 
increased TRPM6 activity and its cell surface trafficking. In contrast, 
long-term effects significantly decreased TRPM6 mRNA expression and 25Mg2+ 
uptake. Metformin lowered TRPM6 mRNA levels independently of insulin- and 
AMPK-mediated pathways. Moreover, in type 2 diabetes patients, metformin therapy 
was associated with lower plasma Mg2+ concentrations and fractional excretion of 
Mg2+. Thereby, short-term metformin treatment increases TRPM6 activity explained 
by enhanced cell surface expression. Conversely, long-term metformin treatment 
results in downregulation of TRPM6 gene expression in intestine and kidney 
cells. This long-term effect translated in an inverse correlation between 
metformin and plasma Mg2+ concentration in type 2 diabetes patients.

DOI: 10.1139/cjpp-2019-0570
PMID: 32017603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
