1. J Cell Physiol. 2020 Sep;235(9):5882-5892. doi: 10.1002/jcp.29605. Epub 2020
Feb  3.

Transforming growth factor-β signaling, a potential mechanism associated with 
diabetes mellitus and pancreatic cancer?

Ma X(1)(2), Cui Z(1)(2), Du Z(1)(2), Lin H(3).

Author information:
(1)Jiangxi Medical School, Nanchang University, Nanchang, Jiangxi, China.
(2)Nanchang Joint Programme, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK.
(3)Department of Pathophysiology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, Jiangxi, China.

Pancreatic cancer is a common malignant digestive disease. Epidemiological and 
clinical studies have demonstrated that pancreatic cancer is closely related to 
diabetes mellitus. Diabetic patients are more likely to develop pancreatic 
cancer, which is linked with poor outcomes. Pancreatic cancer is complicated 
with abnormal blood sugar and insulin resistance and promotes the development of 
diabetes mellitus. Understanding the molecular mechanisms linking diabetes 
mellitus and pancreatic cancer is essential for the treatment of diabetes cancer 
patients. The transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) signaling pathway is 
deregulated in cancer and has a dual role in different stages of cancer as a 
suppressor or a promoter. More important, The TGF-β signaling pathway is also 
another important reason for diabetic complications. This review summarizes the 
relationship between diabetes and pancreatic cancer, in particular, focusing on 
the role of the TGF-β signaling pathway. It is possible to find drugs like 
metformin that can prevent and treat pancreatic cancer by targeting the TGF-β 
signaling pathway.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.29605
PMID: 32017070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
