1. Eur J Pharmacol. 2020 Apr 5;872:172984. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.172984.
Epub  2020 Feb 1.

An investigation into the pleiotropic activity of metformin. A glimpse of 
haemostasis.

Markowicz-Piasecka M(1), Sadkowska A(2), Huttunen KM(3), Podsiedlik M(4), 
Mikiciuk-Olasik E(5), Sikora J(6).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Bioanalysis, Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Drug 
Analysis and Radiopharmacy, Medical University of Lodz, ul. Muszyńskiego 1, 
90-151, Lodz, Poland. Electronic address: magdalena.markowicz@umed.lodz.pl.
(2)Students Research Group, Laboratory of Bioanalysis, Department of 
Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Drug Analysis and Radiopharmacy, Medical University of 
Lodz, ul. Muszyńskiego 1, 90-151, Lodz, Poland. Electronic address: 
adrianna.sadkowska@stud.umed.lodz.pl.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Eastern 
Finland, Yliopistonranta 1C, POB 1627, 70211, Kuopio, Finland. Electronic 
address: kristiina.huttunen@uef.fi.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Drug Analysis and Radiopharmacy, 
Medical University of Lodz, ul. Muszyńskiego 1, 90-151, Lodz, Poland. Electronic 
address: maria.podsiedlik@umed.lodz.pl.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Drug Analysis and Radiopharmacy, 
Medical University of Lodz, ul. Muszyńskiego 1, 90-151, Lodz, Poland. Electronic 
address: elzbieta.mikiciuk-olasik@umed.lodz.pl.
(6)Laboratory of Bioanalysis, Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Drug 
Analysis and Radiopharmacy, Medical University of Lodz, ul. Muszyńskiego 1, 
90-151, Lodz, Poland. Electronic address: joanna.sikora@umed.lodz.pl.

The most characteristic features of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) are 
hyperglycaemia and insulin resistance, however, patients with T2DM are at higher 
risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and atherosclerosis. Diabetes, frequently 
related to metabolic and vascular impairments, is also associated with 
thrombosis, increased blood coagulation and an imbalance between coagulation and 
fibrinolysis. Metformin is the most often used oral glucose-lowering agent; its 
beneficial properties include lowering insulin resistance, weight reduction and 
cardioprotection. Available data suggest that the advantageous properties of 
metformin stem from its favourable effects on endothelium, and anti-oxidative 
and anti-inflammatory properties. This paper reviews the favourable impact of 
metformin on endothelial function, with particular emphasis on the release of 
endogenous molecules modulating the state of the vascular endothelium and 
coagulation. It also summarizes the present knowledge on the influence of 
metformin on platelet activity and plasma haemostasis, including clot formation, 
stabilization and fibrinolysis. Its findings confirm that metformin should 
constitute first line therapy of T2DM subjects; however, more comprehensive 
methodical studies are required to discover the full potential of this drug.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.172984
PMID: 32017937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.
