1. BMJ Open. 2020 Feb 2;10(1):e034741. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2019-034741.

Antidiabetic and antiosteoporotic pharmacotherapies for prevention and treatment 
of type 2 diabetes-induced bone disease: protocol for two network meta-analyses.

Deng J(1), Abbas U(2), Chang O(2), Dhivagaran T(2), Sanger S(3), Bozzo A(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada 
dengj35@mcmaster.ca.
(2)Faculty of Health Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Health Sciences Library, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Division of Orthopedic Surgery, Department of Surgery, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) are at risk for a 
variety of severe debilitating effects. One of the most serious complications 
experienced by patients with T2DM are skeletal diseases caused by changes in the 
bone microenvironment. As a result, patients with T2DM are at risk for higher 
prevalence of fragility fractures. There are a variety of treatments available 
for counteracting this effect. Some antidiabetic medications, such as metformin, 
have been shown to have a positive effect on bone health without the addition of 
additional drugs into patients' treatment plans. Chinese randomised controlled 
trial (RCT) studies have also proposed antiosteoporotic pharmacotherapies as a 
viable alternative treatment strategy. Previous network meta-analyses (NMAs) and 
meta-analyses regarding this topic did not include all available RCT trials, or 
only performed pairwise comparisons. We present a protocol for a two-part NMA 
that incorporates all available RCT data to provide the most comprehensive 
ranking of antidiabetics (part I) and antiosteoporotic (part II) 
pharmacotherapies in terms of their ability to decrease fracture incidences, 
increase bone mineral density (BMD) and improve indications of bone turnover 
markers (BTMs) in adult patients with T2DM.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We will search Medical Literature Analysis and Retrieval 
System Online, Excerpta Medica Database, PubMed, Web of Science, Cumulative 
Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, Cochrane Central Register of 
Controlled Trials and Chinese literature sources (China National Knowledge 
Infrastructure, Chongqing VIP Information, Wanfang Data, Wanfang Med Online) for 
RCTs, which fit our criteria. We will include adult patients with T2DM who have 
taken antidiabetics (part I) or antiosteoporotic (part II) therapies with 
relevant outcome measures in our study. We will perform title/abstract and 
full-text screening as well as data extraction in duplicate. Risk of bias will 
be evaluated in duplicate for each study, and the quality of evidence will be 
examined using Confidence in Network Meta-Analysis in accordance to the Grading 
of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation framework. We will use 
R and gemtc to perform the NMA. We will report changes in BMD and BTMs in either 
weighted or standardised mean difference, and we will report fracture incidences 
as ORs. We will use the Surface Under the Cumulative Ranking Curve scores to 
provide numerical estimates of the rankings of interventions.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study will not require ethics approval. The 
findings of the two-part NMA will be disseminated in peer-reviewed journals and 
presented at conferences. We aim to produce the most comprehensive quantitative 
analysis regarding the management of T2DM bone disease. Our analysis should be 
able to provide physicians and patients with up-to-date recommendations for 
antidiabetic medications and antiosteoporotic pharmacotherapies for maintaining 
bone health in patients with T2DM.
PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42019139320.

Â© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2019-034741
PMCID: PMC7045154
PMID: 32014879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.
