1. Onco Targets Ther. 2020 Jan 6;13:45-50. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S227915. eCollection 
2020.

Metformin Inhibits Proliferation of Human Thyroid Cancer TPC-1 Cells by 
Decreasing LRP2 to Suppress the JNK Pathway.

He Y(#)(1), Cao L(#)(2), Wang L(1)(3), Liu L(1), Huang Y(1), Gong X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Zhuhai People's Hospital (Zhuhai Hospital 
Affiliated with Jinan University), Zhuhai, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Jiujiang No 1 People's Hospital (Affiliated 
Jiujiang Hospital of Nanchang University), Jiujiang, People's Republic of China.
(3)School of Medicine, Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou, People's Republic 
of China.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: To uncover the potential effect of metformin on proliferation and 
apoptosis of thyroid cancer TPC-1 cell line, and the underlying mechanism.
METHODS: Viability, apoptosis and LRP2 level in TPC-1 cells treated with 
different doses of metformin for different time points were determined. Besides, 
protein levels of p-JNK1 and c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNK) in metformin-treated 
TPC-1 cells were detected by Western blot. Regulatory effects of LRP2 on the JNK 
pathway and cell viability in metformin-treated TPC-1 cells were assessed.
RESULTS: Viability in TPC-1 cells gradually decreased with the treatment of 
increased doses of metformin either for 24 h or 48 h. The apoptotic rate was 
concentration-dependently elevated by metformin treatment. Relative levels of 
LRP2 and p-JNK1 were concentration-dependently downregulated by metformin 
treatment. In addition, overexpression of LRP2 partially abolished the 
inhibitory effect of metformin on the viability of TPC-1 cells.
CONCLUSION: Metformin treatment suppresses the proliferative ability and induces 
apoptosis of TPC-1 cells by downregulating LRP2 to block the JNK pathway.

Â© 2020 He et al.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S227915
PMCID: PMC6954091
PMID: 32021253

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.
