1. Rep Pract Oncol Radiother. 2020 Mar-Apr;25(2):163-167. doi: 
10.1016/j.rpor.2019.12.027. Epub 2020 Jan 9.

Metformin and statins: a possible role in high-risk prostate cancer.

Cadeddu G(1), Hervás-Morón A(1), Martín-Martín M(1), Pelari-Mici L(1), 
Ytuza-Charahua de Kirsch K(1), Hernández-Corrales A(1), Vallejo-Ocaña C(1), 
Sastre-Gallego S(1), Carrasco-Esteban E(1), Sancho-García S(1), López-Campos 
F(1).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology Department, "Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal", 
Carretera M-607 Colmenar Viejo, km. 9,100, 28034 Madrid, Spain.

AIM AND BACKGROUND: There is increasing evidence that statins and oral 
anti-diabetic drugs, such as metformin, can have a favorable role in advanced 
prostate cancer treatment.Metformin has been shown to inhibit proliferation of 
tumor cells in vitro and statins inhibit carcinogenesis by suppressing 
angiogenesis/invasion mechanisms. However, clinical evidence on the protective 
effect of these drugs is still weak.The purpose of this study is to analyze if 
these drugs have an impact on Biochemical-Failure-Free-Survival (BFFS) and on 
Distant-Failure-Free-Survival (DFFS) in localized high-risk prostate cancer.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: From 2002-2016, 447 patients with histologically confirmed 
high-risk prostate cancer were retrospectively evaluated. All patients received 
radiotherapy and androgen deprivation therapy. Biochemical recurrence was 
determined by the Phoenix criteria and metastatic patients were defined by the 
presence of radiological metastasis. Survival analysis was performed using the 
Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: 175 patients were treated with statins (65.3 % with a dose ≤ 20 mg/day) 
and 70 with metformin (75.7 % with a dose ≤ 1700 mg/day). Median follow-up was 
88 months (1-194) with no differences in BFFS and DFFS between metformin and 
non-metformin patients (77.4 % versus 80 %, p = 0.91 and 89.4 % versus 88.7 %, 
p = 0.56, respectively). We did not find a statistical difference in BFFS and 
DFFS in patients taking higher doses of those drugs.
CONCLUSION: Metformin and statins were not associated with BFFS or DFFS 
improvement in our analysis. However, the small number of patients treated with 
these drugs limits the reliability of the results and prospective studies are 
needed.

© 2020 Greater Poland Cancer Centre. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rpor.2019.12.027
PMCID: PMC6994275
PMID: 32021570
