1. Nutrients. 2020 Jan 31;12(2):382. doi: 10.3390/nu12020382.

Metabolic and Cognitive Effects of Ranolazine in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: Data 
from an in vivo Model.

Cassano V(1), Leo A(2), Tallarico M(2), Nesci V(2), Cimellaro A(3), Fiorentino 
TV(1), Citraro R(2), Hribal ML(1), De Sarro G(2), Perticone F(1), Sesti G(4), 
Russo E(2), Sciacqua A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, Magna Græcia University, 88100 
Catanzaro, Italy.
(2)Science of Health Department, Magna Græcia University, 88100 Catanzaro, 
Italy.
(3)Pugliese-Ciaccio, Hospital, Internal Medicine Unit, 88100 Catanzaro, Italy.
(4)Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, University of Rome-Sapienza, 
00189 Rome, Italy.

: Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a risk factor for cognitive impairment. 
Ranolazine, an anti-ischemic drug used in the treatment of angina pectoris, has 
been shown to possess hypoglycemic properties in pre-clinical and clinical 
studies. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of ranolazine on 
glucose metabolism and cognitive function in a T2DM model of Wistar rats. 
Diabetes was induced by a high fat diet (HFD) and streptozotocin (STZ). The 
control group received a normal caloric diet (NCD) and sodium citrate buffer. 
Metformin, an effective hypoglycemic drug, was employed as a positive control. 
Animals were divided into the following groups: HFD/STZ + Ranolazine, HFD/STZ + 
Metformin, HFD/STZ + Vehicle, NCD + Vehicle, NCD + Ranolazine, and NCD + 
Metformin. Rats received ranolazine (20 mg/kg), metformin (300 mg/kg), or water, 
for 8 weeks. At the end of the treatments, all animals underwent to an 
intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test (IPGTT) and behavioral tests, including 
passive avoidance, novel object recognition, forced swimming, and elevate plus 
maze tests. Interleukin-6 plasma levels in the six treatment groups were 
assessed by Elisa assay. Body mass composition was estimated by nuclear magnetic 
resonance (NMR). Glucose responsiveness significantly improved in the HFD/STZ + 
Ranolazine (p < 0.0001) and HFD/STZ + Metformin (p = 0.003) groups. There was a 
moderate effect on blood glucose levels in the NCD + Ranolazine and NCD + 
Metformin groups. Lean body mass was significantly increased in the HFD/STZ + 
Ranolazine and HFD/STZ + Metformin animals, compared to HFD/STZ + Vehicle 
animals. Ranolazine improved learning and long-term memory in HFD/STZ + 
Ranolazine compared to HFD/STZ + Vehicle (p < 0.001) and ameliorated the 
pro-inflammatory profile of diabetic mice. These results support the hypothesis 
of a protective effect of ranolazine against cognitive decline caused by T2DM.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12020382
PMCID: PMC7071286
PMID: 32023991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The Authors declare no conflict of interests.
