1. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2021;1307:193-212. doi: 10.1007/5584_2020_494.

GLP-1 Receptor Agonists and SGLT2 Inhibitors for the Treatment of Type 2 
Diabetes: New Insights and Opportunities for Cardiovascular Protection.

Bertoccini L(1), Baroni MG(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Medicine, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, 
Italy.
(2)Department of Experimental Medicine, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, 
Italy. marco.baroni@uniroma1.it.
(3)IRCCS Neuromed-Pozzilli (IS), Pozzilli, Italy. marco.baroni@uniroma1.it.

The risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) (myocardial infarction, stroke, 
peripheral vascular disease) is twice in type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients compared 
to non-diabetic subjects. Furthermore, cardiovascular disease (CV) is the 
leading cause of death in patients with T2D.In the last years several clinical 
intervention studies with new anti-hyperglycaemic drugs have been published, and 
they have shown a positive effect on the reduction of mortality and 
cardiovascular risk in T2D patients. In particular, these studies evaluated 
sodium/glucose-2 cotransporter inhibitors (SGLT2i) and Glucagon-like peptide-1 
receptor agonists (GLP-1RA).In secondary prevention, it was clearly demonstrated 
that SGLT2i and GLP-1RA drugs reduce CV events and mortality, and new guidelines 
consider now these drugs as first choice (after metformin) in the treatment of 
T2D; there are also some signs that they may be effective also in primary 
prevention of CVD. However, the mechanisms involved in cardiovascular protection 
are not yet fully understood, but they appear to be both "glycaemic" and 
"extra-glycaemic".In this review, we will examine the fundamental results of the 
clinical trials on SGLT2i and GLP-1RA, their clinical relevance in term of 
treatment of T2D, and we will discuss the mechanisms that may explain how these 
drugs exert their cardiovascular protective effects.

DOI: 10.1007/5584_2020_494
PMID: 32034729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
