1. ACS Omega. 2020 Jan 22;5(4):1789-1795. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.9b02783. 
eCollection 2020 Feb 4.

Metformin Uptake and Translocation in Chickpeas: Determination Using Liquid 
Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry.

Nespor B(1), Andrianova A(1), Pollack S(2), Pfau C(2), Arifuzzaman M(2), Islam 
N(3), Kubátová A(1), Hossain K(2).

Author information:
(1)University of North Dakota, Grand Forks, North Dakota 58202, United States.
(2)Mayville State University, Mayville, North Dakota 58257, United States.
(3)USDA-ARS, Beltsville, Maryland 20705, United States.

Multiple chronic conditions (MCCs) such as diabetes, hypertension, heart 
disease, arthritis, asthma, and common respiratory problems are prevalent in 
over one-fourth of Americans, and separate drugs are prescribed to manage each 
of the diseases. The nutritive crop seeds loaded with multiple drugs could be a 
cheap and sustainable alternative to drugs produced by pharmaceutical companies. 
Our long-term goal is to produce chickpea seeds containing comparable dosages of 
multiple drugs regularly prescribed for managing MCC. In this work, we conducted 
experiments to understand the uptake and translocation of metformin into the 
tissues of chickpea to demonstrate the applicability of LC-HR-ToF-MS in 
determining metformin concentration, and to investigate responses of increased 
dosage of metformin and it's accumulation into the chickpea seed. We treated the 
chickpea plants with 100 and 500 mg/L metformin chloride and analyzed its 
concentration in the leaf, stem, and seeds. We observed that metformin was 
successfully uptaken by chickpeas plant and translocated to stem, leaf, and 
seeds in both treatments. We also observed that the metformin concentration is 
responsive and as high as 349 times increase in seed when the dosage was 
increased from 100 to 500 mg/L.

Copyright © 2020 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.9b02783
PMCID: PMC7003194
PMID: 32039314

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.
