1. Biomed Pharmacother. 2020 May;125:109914. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.109914. 
Epub 2020 Feb 5.

Composite probiotics alleviate type 2 diabetes by regulating intestinal 
microbiota and inducing GLP-1 secretion in db/db mice.

Wang Y(1), Dilidaxi D(1), Wu Y(1), Sailike J(1), Sun X(1), Nabi XH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Xinjiang Medical University, Urumqi, 830011, 
China.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Xinjiang Medical University, Urumqi, 830011, 
China. Electronic address: xinhuanabi@yeah.net.

BACKGROUD/AIM: Previous studies have found that probiotic fermented camel milk 
has anti-diabetic effect by inducing (glucagon-like peptide-1) GLP-1 secretion. 
Probiotics are valuable in prevention and treatment of diabetes. As a result, 
our team islolated 14 probiotics from fermented camel milk. These probiotics 
have beneficial characteristics, but the possible anti-diabetic mechanisms 
remains unclear. The present study aimed to explore the possoble anti-diabetic 
mechanisms of 14 probiotics.
METHODS: C57BL/Ks mice were normal group. The db/db mice were randomized into 
five groups: model group, metformin group, liraglutide group, low-dose and 
high-dose probiotic group. Biochemical parameters were determined by the 
respective assay kits. The levels of the short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and 
microbiota were respectively determined by gas chromatography and qRT-PCR. HE 
staining and immunofluorescence were used for histomorphological observation. 
Quantitative PCR and western-blot were determined the gene and protein 
expression of Bax, Bcl-2, Caspase-3 and PI3K/AKT.
RESULTS: Probiotics significantly improved blood glucose and blood lipid 
parameters, as well as the morphological changes of pancreas, liver and kidney. 
Probiotics improved the gut barrier function through increasing the levels of 
SCFA-producing bacteria and SCFAs as well as the expression of claudin-1 and 
mucin-2, and decreasing Escherichia coli and LPS level. In additon, probiotics 
enhanced insulin secretion through glucose-triggered GLP-1 secretion by 
upregulating G protein-coupled receptor 43/41 (GPR43/41), proglucagon and 
proconvertase 1/3 activity. Forthermore, probiotics protected pancreas against 
apoptosis, which may be dependent on the upregulation of PI3K/AKT pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: The anti-diabetic effect of 14 probiotics in db/db mice seem to be 
related to an increase of SCFA-producing bacteria, the improvement of intestinal 
barrier function and the upregulation of GLP-1 production, and indicate these 
probiotics might be a good candidate to prevent and treat diabetes.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.109914
PMID: 32035395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest No competing 
interests are associated with study.
