1. Thorac Cancer. 2020 Mar;11(3):686-692. doi: 10.1111/1759-7714.13318. Epub 2020
 Feb 7.

Metformin alleviates breast cancer through targeting high-mobility group AT-hook 
2.

Li Y(1), Wang D(2), Ren H(3), Feng W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, China-Japan Union Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, China.
(2)Department of Breast Surgery, The Second Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, China.
(3)Department of General Surgery, China-Japan Union Hospital of Jilin 
University, Changchun, China.

BACKGROUND: As a classic oral drug used in diabetic patients, metformin has 
exhibited an anticancer role in many types of cancers in recent years. Here, we 
aimed to investigate the role of metformin in the growth of breast cancer and 
its novel targets.
METHODS: A cell viability assay was utilized to examine the inhibitory effect of 
metformin on proliferation of breast cancer cells. Western blotting and RT-PCR 
assays were used to detect the regulation of metformin on the expression of 
oncogenic HMGA2. The luciferase reporter vector of HMGA2 promoter was 
constructed. A luciferase reporter gene assay was performed to analyze the 
effect of metformin on HMGA2 promoter activity in breast cancer cells. Chromatin 
immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay was performed to show the binding of Sp1 to 
HMGA2 promoter in breast cancer cells with or without metformin treatment. The 
function of metformin-regulated HMGA2 in breast cancer growth was tested using a 
cell viability assay.
RESULTS: Cell proliferation was obviously inhibited in breast cancer cells 
treated with different concentrations of metformin. The level of mRNA and 
protein of HMGA2 was significantly reduced by metformin in the cells. 
Mechanistically, metformin was able to inactivate the HMGA2 promoter through 
downregulating transcription factor Sp1 in the cells. In terms of function, 
treatment with metformin suppressed the proliferation of breast cancer cells and 
overexpressed HMGA2 reversed the inhibition of cell proliferation mediated by 
metformin.
CONCLUSION: Metformin resists the growth of breast cancer through targeting 
Sp1/HMGA2 signal.

Â© 2020 The Authors. Thoracic Cancer published by China Lung Oncology Group and 
John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1759-7714.13318
PMCID: PMC7049488
PMID: 32031335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
