1. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 2020 Jun;62(6):719-731. doi: 
10.1165/rcmb.2019-0275OC.

AMP-Kinase Dysfunction Alters Notch Ligands to Impair Angiogenesis in Neonatal 
Pulmonary Hypertension.

Rana U(1), Callan E(1), Entringer B(1), Michalkiewicz T(1), Joshi A(2), Parchur 
AK(2), Teng RJ(1), Konduri GG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Children's Research Institute, and.
(2)Department of Radiology and Center for Imaging, Medical College of Wisconsin, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Decreased angiogenesis contributes to persistent pulmonary hypertension of the 
newborn (PPHN); mechanisms remain unclear. AMPK (5'AMP activated protein kinase) 
is a key regulator of cell metabolism. We investigated the hypothesis that a 
decrease in AMPK function leads to mitochondrial dysfunction and altered balance 
of notch ligands delta-like 4 (DLL4) and Jagged 1 (Jag1) to impair angiogenesis 
in PPHN. Studies were done in fetal lambs with PPHN induced by prenatal ductus 
arteriosus constriction and gestation-matched control lambs. PPHN lambs were 
treated with saline or AMPK agonist metformin. Angiogenesis was assessed in 
lungs with micro-computed tomography angiography and histology. AMPK function; 
expression of mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) complex proteins I-V, 
Dll4, and Jag1; mitochondrial number; and in vitro angiogenesis function were 
assessed in pulmonary artery endothelial cells (PAEC) from control and PPHN 
lambs. AMPK function was decreased in PPHN PAEC and lung sections. Expression of 
mitochondrial transcription factor, PGC-1Î±, ETC complex proteins I-V, and 
mitochondrial number were decreased in PPHN. In vitro angiogenesis of PAEC and 
capillary number and vessel volume fraction in the lung were decreased in PPHN. 
Expression of DLL4 was increased and Jag1 was decreased in PAEC from PPHN lambs. 
AMPK agonists A769662 and metformin increased the mitochondrial complex proteins 
and number, in vitro angiogenesis, and Jag1 levels and decreased DLL4 levels in 
PPHN PAEC. Infusion of metformin in vivo increased the vessel density in PPHN 
lungs. Decreased AMPK function contributes to impaired angiogenesis in PPHN by 
altered balance of notch ligands in PPHN.

DOI: 10.1165/rcmb.2019-0275OC
PMCID: PMC7258820
PMID: 32048878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
