1. Aging (Albany NY). 2020 Feb 11;12(6):4727-4741. doi: 10.18632/aging.102796.
Epub  2020 Feb 11.

Metformin coordinates osteoblast/osteoclast differentiation associated with 
ischemic osteonecrosis.

Park SH(1), Kang MA(2), Moon YJ(3), Jang KY(4), Kim JR(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bio and Chemical Engineering, Hongik University, Sejong, Korea.
(2)Department of Biological Science, Gachon University, Seongnam, Korea.
(3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Chonbuk National University Medical 
School, Research Institute of Clinical Medicine of Chonbuk National 
University-Biomedical Research Institute of Chonbuk National University Hospital 
and Research Institute for Endocrine Sciences, Jeonju, Korea.
(4)Department of Pathology, Chonbuk National University Medical School, Research 
Institute of Clinical Medicine of Chonbuk National University-Biomedical 
Research Institute of Chonbuk National University Hospital and Research 
Institute for Endocrine Sciences, Jeonju, Korea.

In this study, we aimed to identify a candidate drug that can activate 
endogenous Angiopoietin 1 (Ang1) expression via drug repositioning as a 
pharmacological treatment for avascular osteonecrosis. After incubation with 821 
drugs from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drug library, Ang1 
expression in U2OS cell culture media was examined by ELISA. Metformin, the 
first-line medication for treatment of type 2 diabetes, was selected as a 
candidate for in vitro and in vivo experimental evaluation. Ang1 was induced, 
and alkaline phosphatase activity was increased by metformin treatment in U2OS 
and MG63 cells. Wound healing and migration assay showed increased osteoblastic 
cell mobility by metformin treatment in U2OS and MG63 cells. Metformin 
upregulated expression of protein markers for osteoblastic differentiation in 
U2OS and MG63 cells but inhibited osteoclastic differentiation in Raw264.7 
cells. Metformin (25 mg/kg) protected against ischemic necrosis in the epiphysis 
of the rat femoral head by maintaining osteoblast/osteocyte function and 
vascular density but inhibiting osteoclast activity in the necrotic femoral 
head. These findings provide novel insight into the specific biomarkers that are 
targeted and regulated by metformin in osteoblast differentiation and contribute 
to understanding the effects of these FDA-approved small-molecule drugs as novel 
therapeutics for ischemic osteonecrosis.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.102796
PMCID: PMC7138543
PMID: 32045366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.
