1. Saudi Pharm J. 2020 Feb;28(2):210-214. doi: 10.1016/j.jsps.2019.11.023. Epub 
2019 Dec 7.

Comparative evaluation of biphasic insulin with metformin and triple oral 
hypoglycemic agents (OHA) in type 2 diabetes patients.

Alavudeen SS(1), Khobrani M(1), Dhanapal CK(2), Mir JI(1), Alshahrani SM(1), 
Khan NA(1), Alhossan A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, King Khalid University, Abha, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Faculty of Pharmacy, Annamalai University, Annamalai Nagar, Chidambaram, 
India.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, King Saud University, Saudi Arabia.

INTRODUCTION: The prevalence of secondary failure to oral hypoglycemic agents 
among type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients ranges from 30 to 60%. The 
alternative approaches to overcome this issue are either switching to triple 
oral hypoglycemic agents (OHA) or intensifying the regimen by adding insulin.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the glycemic control achieved with biphasic insulin plus 
metformin and triple OHA in T2DM patients who were not adequately controlled 
with two OHA regimen.
METHODS: A qualitative prospective study was conducted at Asir diabetes center, 
Abha, KSA. Poorly controlled T2DM patients with two OHA for at least 1 year with 
glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) >7.0% were included. Subjects were divided into 
group I (a third OHA was added to the existing two OHA regimen) and group II 
(switched over to Biphasic insulin and metformin). At baseline and 3-month 
intervals, level of HbA1C, Fasting Plasma Glucose (FPG), Postprandial Plasma 
Glucose (PPG), Blood Pressure (BP), lipid profile and hypoglycemic episodes were 
obtained and evaluated for one year.
RESULTS: 41.1% of patients were in group I and 58.9% were in group II. At the 
end of the study, there was a significant reduction in HbA1c in group II 
subjects comparing to group I (8.18 ± 1.32 vs 8.79 ± 1.81, p = 0.0238). FPG and 
PPG were improved also in group II. The mean body weight increased from baseline 
in group II is +4.48 kg and decreased from baseline in group I (-0.46 kg). 11.3% 
from group I and 23.7% from group II reported hypoglycaemic incidences.
CONCLUSION: Biphasic insulin and metformin regimen could be an appropriate 
therapeutic option for achieving good glycemic control compared with triple OHA 
in patients with two OHA failure.

© 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of King Saud 
University.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsps.2019.11.023
PMCID: PMC7000310
PMID: 32042260

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.
