1. Cell Death Dis. 2020 Feb 10;11(2):111. doi: 10.1038/s41419-020-2307-5.

Metformin reduces HGF-induced resistance to alectinib via the inhibition of 
Gab1.

Chen H(#)(1), Lin C(#)(1), Peng T(#)(2), Hu C(1), Lu C(1), Li L(1), Wang Y(1), 
Han R(1), Feng M(1), Sun F(1), He Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Disease, Daping Hospital, Army Medical University, 
Chongqing, 400042, China.
(2)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Dazhou Central Hospital, Sichuan, 635000, 
China.
(3)Department of Respiratory Disease, Daping Hospital, Army Medical University, 
Chongqing, 400042, China. heyong8998@126.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Alectinib is a second-generation anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitor that 
has sufficient clinical efficacy and satisfactory safety in ALK-positive 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with or without brain metastasis. 
Alectinib has now become an important drug in the first-line treatment of 
advanced ALK-positive NSCLC; however, resistance is almost inevitable. The 
increased expression of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and its physiological 
receptor tyrosine kinase MET have been shown to be linked to acquired resistance 
to various tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), and this phenomenon has been 
observed in some ALK-positive NSCLC tumour tissues. In this study, we found that 
HGF levels in the culture supernatant of an ALK-positive cell line tended to 
increase with time and could be further increased by alectinib in a 
time-dependent manner. Exogenous or endogenous HGF did not cause resistance to 
the ALK/MET double-targeted small molecule inhibitor crizotinib, but it was an 
important cause of alectinib resistance. Furthermore, Gab1 was a key effector in 
the HGF/MET signal transduction pathway that mediated alectinib resistance. The 
antidiabetic drug metformin combined with alectinib overcame alectinib 
resistance triggered by HGF/MET through disrupting the complex between MET and 
Gab1, thereby inhibiting Gab1 phosphorylation and the activation of downstream 
signal transduction pathways. These results suggest that metformin combined with 
alectinib may be useful for overcoming alectinib resistance induced by the 
activation of the HGF/MET signalling pathway and improving the efficacy of 
alectinib.

DOI: 10.1038/s41419-020-2307-5
PMCID: PMC7010683
PMID: 32041944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.
