1. Chest. 2020 Aug;158(2):562-570. doi: 10.1016/j.chest.2020.01.027. Epub 2020
Feb  10.

Senotherapy: A New Horizon for COPD Therapy.

Baker JR(1), Donnelly LE(1), Barnes PJ(2).

Author information:
(1)National Heart & Lung Institute, Imperial College, London, England.
(2)National Heart & Lung Institute, Imperial College, London, England. 
Electronic address: p.j.barnes@imperial.ac.uk.

There is increasing evidence that COPD is a disease of accelerated lung aging, 
with the accumulation of senescent cells that lose their ability to repair and 
secrete multiple inflammatory proteins known as the senescence-associated 
secretory phenotype (SASP), which mimic the profile of inflammatory mediators 
secreted in COPD. This review discusses novel drugs (senotherapies) that target 
cellular senescence and which may be a promising therapeutic approach to prevent 
currently unaddressed disease progression and mortality in COPD. A major pathway 
leading to senescence is via the activation of 
phosphoinositide-3-kinase/mammalian target of rapamycin signaling. Existing 
drugs, such as rapamycin and metformin, target this pathway. Mitochondrial 
oxidative stress is a key driving mechanism for this pathway, and 
mitochondria-targeted antioxidants are promising. A key finding in COPD is loss 
of antiaging molecules such as sirtuin-1 and sirtuin-6, which are reduced by 
phosphoinositide-3-kinase/mammalian target of rapamycin signaling through 
microRNA-34a. Sirtuin activators are in development, and inhibiting microRNA-34a 
restores sirtuin expression experimentally in COPD cells. Senolytic therapies 
induce apoptosis and removal of senescent cells and reduce the 
senescence-associated secretory phenotype response in animal models of aging and 
in pilot clinical studies of other age-related diseases. A combination of 
senolytics and senostatics (drugs that inhibit cellular senescence) may be a 
valuable new approach to COPD, especially if started early in the disease 
process. Furthermore, COPD is associated with several comorbidities that share 
the same aging pathways which may be spread by extracellular vesicles, and thus 
a single treatment for all these diseases is feasible in the future to extend 
health span.

Copyright Â© 2020 American College of Chest Physicians. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chest.2020.01.027
PMID: 32057805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
