1. Neuroreport. 2020 Mar 4;31(4):319-324. doi: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000001407.

Stereological study on the numerical plasticity of myelinated fibers and 
oligodendrocytes in the rat spinal cord with painful diabetic neuropathy.

Lin JY(1), Zhu N(1)(2), He YN(1)(3), Xu BL(4), Peng B(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Affiliated Hospital of North Sichuan Medical 
College, Nanchong.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Chengdu 
Medical College, Chengdu.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, Nanchong Central Hospital, Nanchong.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology, Santai County People's Hospital (Affiliated 
Hospital of North Sichuan Medical College in Santai County), Mianyang.
(5)Research Unit of Electron Microscopy Structures, North Sichuan Medical 
College, Nanchong, Sichuan, China.

Painful diabetic neuropathy may associate with nerve morphological plasticity in 
both peripheral and central nervous system. The aim of this study was to 
determine numerical changes of myelinated fibers in the spinothalamic tract 
region and oligodendrocytes in the spinal dorsal horn of rats with painful 
diabetic neuropathy and the effects of metformin on the above changes. Male 
Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly allocated into the control group (n = 7), the 
painful diabetic neuropathy group (n = 6) and the painful diabetic neuropathy 
treated with metformin group (the PDN + M group, n = 7), respectively. 
Twenty-eight days after medication, numbers of myelinated fibers in the 
spinothalamic tract and oligodendrocytes in the spinal dorsal horn were 
estimated by the optical disector (a stereological technique). Compared to the 
control group, number of myelinated fibers in the spinothalamic tract increased 
significantly in the painful diabetic neuropathy and PDN + M group, compared to 
the painful diabetic neuropathy group, number of myelinated fibers decreased in 
the PDN + M group (P < 0.05). As the oligodendrocyte in the spinal dorsal horn 
was considered, its number increased significantly in the painful diabetic 
neuropathy group compared to the control and the PDN + M group (P < 0.05), there 
was no significant difference between the control and the PDN + M group (P > 
0.05). Our results indicate that painful diabetic neuropathy is associated with 
a serial of morphometric plasticity in the rat spinal cord including the 
numerical increase of the myelinated fibers in the spinothalamic tract and the 
oligodendrocytes in the spinal dorsal horn. The analgesic effect of metformin 
against painful diabetic neuropathy might be related to its adverse effects on 
the above morphometric plasticity.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000001407
PMCID: PMC7041624
PMID: 32058434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.
