1. Curr Hypertens Rep. 2020 Feb 12;22(2):17. doi: 10.1007/s11906-020-1026-8.

Novel Interventions for the Prevention of Preeclampsia.

Ma'ayeh M(1), Rood KM(2), Kniss D(2), Costantine MM(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Maternal Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, 
The Ohio State University College of Medicine, 395 W 12th Avenue, Columbus, OH, 
43210, USA. Marwan.Ma'ayeh@osumc.edu.
(2)Division of Maternal Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, 
The Ohio State University College of Medicine, 395 W 12th Avenue, Columbus, OH, 
43210, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To review the rationale and biological plausibility and 
discuss the current research on novel interventions for the prevention of 
preeclampsia.
RECENT FINDINGS: Preeclampsia affects up to 8% of pregnancies worldwide and 
remains a major cause of maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Multiple 
medications have been investigated or repurposed as potential effective 
interventions for preeclampsia prevention. Aspirin is currently the only drug 
for which there is some evidence of benefit for preeclampsia prevention, and its 
use is recommended by professional societies for pregnancies at risk. Statins 
have shown promise for prevention of preeclampsia in animal models and human 
pilot studies, without any trend or concerns for safety signals or 
teratogenicity. The use of metformin has also gained popularity in experimental 
studies, but observations from randomized clinical trials were not consistent on 
its utility as a possible intervention for preeclampsia prevention. While 
initial studies evaluating esomeprazole were promising, randomized trials failed 
to show benefit. Contemporary research shows exciting new opportunities for 
prophylactic treatment for preeclampsia, to prevent this debilitating and 
life-threatening disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s11906-020-1026-8
PMCID: PMC8237364
PMID: 32052203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest relevant to this manuscript
