1. BMJ Open. 2020 Feb 12;10(2):e031612. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2019-031612.

Real-world Evaluation of glycemic control and hypoglycemic Events among type 2 
Diabetes mellitus study (REEDS): a multicentre, cross-sectional study in 
Thailand.

Satirapoj B(1), Pratipanawatr T(2), Ongphiphadhanakul B(3), Suwanwalaikorn S(4), 
Benjasuratwong Y(5), Nitiyanant W(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Phramongkutklao College of 
Medicine, Bangkok, Thailand satirapoj@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen, 
Thailand.
(3)Department of Medicine, Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, 
Thailand.
(4)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok, Thailand.
(5)Division of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, Phramongkutklao Hospital, 
Bangkok, Thailand.
(6)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital Mahidol 
University, Bangkok, Thailand.

OBJECTIVE: Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) often experience 
hypoglycaemia and weight gain due to treatment side effects. Sulfonylureas (SU) 
and the combination of SU and metformin (SU+MET) were the most common 
monotherapy and combination therapies used in Thailand tertiary care hospitals. 
This study aimed to assess the glycaemic goal attainment rates, hypoglycaemic 
episodes, weight gain and treatment compliance among patients with T2DM 
receiving SU or SU+MET.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A multicentre cross-sectional survey and 
retrospective review was conducted in five tertiary care hospitals, Thailand. 
Patients with T2DM aged ≥30 years were included consecutively during a 12-month 
period. Glycaemic control, experiences of hypoglycaemia, weight gain and 
compliance were evaluated. Glycaemic goal attainment was defined by HbA1c level 
less than 7%.
RESULTS: Out of the 659 patients (mean age (±SD)), 65.5 (10.0) years and median 
duration of T2DM (IQR), 10 (5-15) years), 313 (47.5%) achieved the glycaemic 
goal. HbA1c levels in the patients with goal attainment was significantly lower 
compared with those without (6.3%±0.5% vs 8.1%±1.2%, p<0.001). Goal attainment 
was significantly lower among patients treated with SU+MET than those treated 
with SU alone (43.5% vs 63.0%; OR 0.45, 95% CI 0.31, 0.66, p<0.001). A third of 
patients reported experiencing hypoglycaemia (30.7%) and weight gain (35.4%). 
Weight gain in the SU+MET group was lower than those receiving SU alone (33.1% 
vs 44.6%, p=0.015), but there was no difference in hypoglycaemic events. Major 
events in the previous 12 months were experienced by 68 patients, most commonly 
congestive heart failure and ischaemic heart disease. Approximately half of the 
patients (52.2%) reported not always taking their medication as prescribed.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with T2DM receiving SU or SU+MET, only about half of 
the patients achieved glycaemic goal and compliance with the treatment. 
Hypoglycaemia and weight gain posed a significant burden with risk of weight 
gain higher in the SU group.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2019-031612
PMCID: PMC7045111
PMID: 32051301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.
