1. Horm Metab Res. 2020 Feb;52(2):89-94. doi: 10.1055/a-1084-5441. Epub 2020 Feb 
13.

Differential Impact of Insulin Sensitizers vs. Anti-Androgen on Serum Leptin 
Levels in Vitamin D Replete PCOS Women: A Six Month Open Labeled Randomized 
Study.

Rashid A(1), Ganie MA(1), Wani IA(1), Bhat GA(1), Shaheen F(2), Wani IA(1), 
Shrivastava M(3), Shah ZA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Sheri-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Srinagar, India.
(2)Department of Radio-Diagnosis, Sheri-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Srinagar, India.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New 
Delhi, India.
(4)Department of Immunology & Molecular Medicine, Sheri-Kashmir Institute of 
Medical Sciences, Srinagar, India.

Women with PCOS are linked to insulin resistance, inflammation, and vitamin D 
(VD) deficiency. The study endeavors to comprehend the differential impact of 
insulin sensitizers vs. anti-androgen on serum leptin levels among women with 
PCOS rendered vitamin D replete with high VD oral supplement. This was 
open-labeled randomized study that screened 180 eligible women presenting to 
Endocrine clinic with oligomenorrhea or features of hyperandrogenism. 
Ninety-nine women who furnished written informed consent and fulfilled the 
Rotterdam 2003 criteria for diagnosis of PCOS were randomized into 3 drug 
treatment arms to receive either spironolactone (50 mg/d; n=30), metformin 
(1000 mg/d; n=30) or pioglitazone (30 mg/d; n=30). These women were also 
administered oral VD (4000 IU/day) in addition to the allocated drug for a 
period of 6 months. Detailed history, clinical examination, and laboratory 
evaluation was carried out at baseline and 6 months after intervention. Number 
of menstrual cycles/year increased while as Ferriman-Gallwey score, blood 
glucose, HOMA-IR, and plasma insulin levels significantly decreased in all the 
three arms with better outcomes in spironolactone and pioglitazone arms 
(p<0.05). Similarly, serum leptin levels superiorly improved in spironolactone 
and pioglitazone group. Pioglitazone group showed better efficacy in lowering 
serum total testosterone (p<0.05). Co-supplementation of high dosage VD with 
spironolactone or pioglitazone are more effective in reducing plasma leptin 
levels than metformin, and thus might prove to be better therapeutic strategies 
for women with PCOS.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/a-1084-5441
PMID: 32053841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.
