1. J Neurosci Res. 2020 Jul;98(7):1468-1484. doi: 10.1002/jnr.24590. Epub 2020
Feb  14.

Hypoxic-ischemic-related cerebrovascular changes and potential therapeutic 
strategies in the neonatal brain.

Disdier C(1), Stonestreet BS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Women & Infants Hospital of Rhode Island, The 
Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, RI, USA.

Perinatal hypoxic-ischemic (HI)-related brain injury is an important cause of 
morbidity and long-standing disability in newborns. The only currently approved 
therapeutic strategy available to reduce brain injury in the newborn is 
hypothermia. Therapeutic hypothermia can only be used to treat HI encephalopathy 
in full-term infants and survivors remain at high risk for a wide spectrum of 
neurodevelopmental abnormalities as a result of residual brain injury. 
Therefore, there is an urgent need for adjunctive therapeutic strategies. 
Inflammation and neurovascular damage are important factors that contribute to 
the pathophysiology of HI-related brain injury and represent exciting potential 
targets for therapeutic intervention. In this review, we address the role of 
each component of the neurovascular unit (NVU) in the pathophysiology of 
HI-related injury in the neonatal brain. Disruption of the blood-brain barrier 
(BBB) observed in the early hours after an HI-related event is associated with a 
response at the basal lamina level, which comprises astrocytes, pericytes, and 
immune cells, all of which could affect BBB function to further exacerbate 
parenchymal injury. Future research is required to determine potential drugs 
that could prevent or attenuate neurovascular damage and/or augment repair. 
However, some studies have reported beneficial effects of hypothermia, 
erythropoietin, stem cell therapy, anti-cytokine therapy and metformin in 
ameliorating several different facets of damage to the NVU after HI-related 
brain injury in the perinatal period.

Â© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.24590
PMCID: PMC7242133
PMID: 32060970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST There are no conflicts of 
interest to report.
