1. Ann Endocrinol (Paris). 2020 Feb;81(1):3-10. doi: 10.1016/j.ando.2020.01.001. 
Epub 2020 Jan 25.

Prevalence and progression of carbohydrate disorders in patients with 
pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma: retrospective single-center study.

Elenkova A(1), Matrozova J(2), Vasilev V(2), Robeva R(2), Zacharieva S(2).

Author information:
(1)USHATE Academy Ivan-Penchev, Department of Endocrinology, Medical 
University-Sofia, Sofia, Bulgaria. Electronic address: atanaskae@gmail.com.
(2)USHATE Academy Ivan-Penchev, Department of Endocrinology, Medical 
University-Sofia, Sofia, Bulgaria.

BACKGROUND: Carbohydrate disorders are the most frequent metabolic disorders, 
affecting a significant proportion of patients with pheochromocytoma.
OBJECTIVE: A retrospective study assessed the prevalence and progression of 
carbohydrate disorders in 204 patients (92 men, 112 women) with histologically 
proven pheochromocytoma diagnosed in a single specialized tertiary center during 
a 40-year period (1978-2017). One hundred were followed-up after tumor removal.
RESULTS: Carbohydrate disorders were diagnosed in 49.5% of cases: 30.4% with 
diabetes and, 19.1% prediabetes. Subjects with carbohydrate disorders had 
significantly greater age at diagnosis and higher 24-hour urine metanephrine and 
normetanephrine concentrations than those with normal glucose tolerance. 
One-third of patients with diabetes achieved good glycemic control under oral 
treatment (54% on metformin monotherapy). One-third of patients overall required 
preoperative insulin treatment. Postoperative follow-up (100 patients; 5-year 
mean duration) showed reduced prevalence of diabetes (13% vs. 33%; P=0.0007) and 
prediabetes (12% vs. 24%; P=0.027). Almost 60% of subjects initially diagnosed 
with carbohydrate disorders recovered normal glucose tolerance after surgery; 
these subjects had significantly higher preoperative urine 
metanephrine/normetanephrine levels than those with persistent 
diabetes/prediabetes. Correlation analysis revealed a moderate negative 
relationship between urine metanephrine/normetanephrine concentration and the 
outcome of the carbohydrate disorders (Spearmen's Rho=-0.507; P=0.013). There 
was no significant difference according to pre- or postoperative prevalence of 
obesity (15% vs. 16%; P=0.845) or dyslipidemia (46% vs. 39%; P=0.316).
CONCLUSIONS: Carbohydrate disorders affect approximately 50% of pheochromocytoma 
patients; 30% develop overt diabetes, which may be the only clinical 
manifestation in some rare cases. Pheochromocytoma-related diabetes is more 
likely to affect patients with predominant adrenaline secretion. It is often 
easy to control and usually requires oral antidiabetic treatment. Reversibility 
of carbohydrate disorders depend on severity, preoperative metanephrine level, 
age and weight.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ando.2020.01.001
PMID: 32067697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
