1. Cureus. 2020 Jan 8;12(1):e6601. doi: 10.7759/cureus.6601.

Knowledge, Attitude, and Practice of Diabetes Mellitus Among the Saudi 
Population in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia: A Quantitative Study.

Alqahtani M(1), Almutairi FE(2), Albasseet AO(3), Almutairi KE(2).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, Al-Imam Muhammad Ibn Saud Islamic University, Riyadh, SAU.
(2)Family Medicine, Al-Imam Muhammad Ibn Saud Islamic University, Riyadh, SAU.
(3)Family Medicine, King Faisal Specialist Hospital & Research Centre, Riyadh, 
SAU.

Aim To investigate the knowledge, attitudes, and practices of diabetes among 
Saudi adults in Riyadh. Methods A questionnaire-based study was carried out in 
September 2019. A previously validated questionnaire was used to assess 
participants' knowledge. Results The study sample included 3,208 total 
participants. Of these, 53% were females and 47% were males. About 53.5% of the 
participants had good knowledge scores. The great majority of respondents did 
not know whether metformin could cause kidney damage (n = 2651, 82.6%) and more 
than half did not know whether long-term drug use could cause organ failure (n = 
2073, 64.6%) and whether insulin could cause harmful effects (n = 1836, 57.2%). 
Results showed that 91.3% of the respondents stated that they would seek 
treatment if they or one of their family members got diabetes mellitus (DM). 
Approximately 50% of the participants (49.9%) regularly exercised. More than 
half (68%) of the respondents had never checked their blood glucose levels on an 
annual basis. More than half of the respondents tried to avoid refined sugar. 
Conclusion The majority of the participants had never checked their blood 
glucose levels. In addition, one-third of the participants believed that the use 
of complementary medicine could actually control diabetes.

Copyright Â© 2020, Alqahtani et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.6601
PMCID: PMC7008757
PMID: 32064183

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.
