1. Child Obes. 2020 Apr;16(3):174-191. doi: 10.1089/chi.2019.0040. Epub 2020 Feb 
18.

Metformin Therapy Reduces Obesity Indices in Children and Adolescents: A 
Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Clinical Trials.

Sadeghi A(1)(2), Mousavi SM(3), Mokhtari T(4), Parohan M(2), Milajerdi A(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Students' Scientific Research Center, School of Nutritional Sciences and 
Dietetics, Tehran University of Medical Sciences (TUMS), Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Cellular and Molecular Nutrition, School of Nutritional 
Sciences and Dietetics, Tehran University of Medical Sciences (TUMS), Tehran, 
Iran.
(3)Department of Community Nutrition, School of Nutritional Sciences and 
Dietetics, Tehran University of Medical Sciences (TUMS), Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Nutrition and Integrative Physiology, College of Health, 
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT.

Purpose: Few studies have summarized findings for the effect of metformin on 
obesity indices. Therefore, we aimed to conduct a systematic review and 
meta-analysis on the effect of metformin on obesity indices among children and 
adolescents. Methods: Relevant articles published up to September 2018 were 
searched in SCOPUS, Medline, and Google Scholar using appropriate keywords. All 
clinical trials that examined the effect of metformin on obesity indices in 
children and adolescents were included. Results: Overall, 38 studies, including 
2199 participants (39.75% male and 60.25% female), were included. The pooled 
results indicated that metformin significantly reduced BMI [weighted mean 
difference (WMD): -1.07 kg/m2; 95% confidence interval (CI): -1.43 to -0.72]. 
Same findings were found for waist circumference (WC) (WMD: -1.93 cm; 95% CI: 
-2.69 to -1.16). Metformin also reduced body weight in all participants (WMD: 
-2.51 kg; 95% CI: -3.14 to -1.89). Moreover, it reduced body fat mass in 
patients with overweight or obesity (WMD: -1.90%; 95% CI: -3.25 to -0.56) and 
chronic diseases (WMD: -1.41%; 95% CI: -2.23 to -0.58), but not among those with 
growth problems. Metformin therapy did not affect lean body mass (LBM) in 
patients with overweight or obesity and growth problems; however, it reduced LBM 
in patients with chronic diseases (WMD: -1.49 kg; 95% CI: -2.69 to -0.30). 
Conclusions: We found a significant reduction in BMI, body weight, WC, and fat 
mass following administration with metformin. However, the effect of metformin 
on LBM was not significant. Further studies are required to confirm these 
findings.

DOI: 10.1089/chi.2019.0040
PMID: 32068434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
