1. J Am Chem Soc. 2020 Mar 11;142(10):4944-4954. doi: 10.1021/jacs.0c00650. Epub 
2020 Feb 28.

Metformin-Induced Stromal Depletion to Enhance the Penetration of 
Gemcitabine-Loaded Magnetic Nanoparticles for Pancreatic Cancer Targeted 
Therapy.

Han H(1), Hou Y(2), Chen X(1), Zhang P(2), Kang M, Jin Q(1), Ji J(1), Gao 
M(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)MOE Key Laboratory of Macromolecule Synthesis and Functionalization of 
Ministry of Education, Department of Polymer Science and Engineering, Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou 310027, P. R. China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Colloid, Interface and Chemical Thermodynamics, Institute 
of Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Bei Yi Jie 2, Zhong Guan Cun, Beijing 
100190, P. R. China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Radiation Medicine and Protection, Collaborative 
Innovation Center of Radiation Medicine of Jiangsu Higher Education 
Institutions, School for Radiological and Interdisciplinary Sciences, Soochow 
University, Suzhou 215123, P. R. China.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, as one of the most aggressive cancers, is 
characterized by rich desmoplastic stroma that forms a physical barrier for 
anticancer drugs. To address this issue, we herein report a two-step sequential 
delivery strategy for targeted therapy of pancreatic cancer with gemcitabine 
(GEM). In this sequential strategy, metformin (MET) was first administrated to 
disrupt the dense stroma, based on the fact that MET downregulated the 
expression of fibrogenic cytokine TGF-β to suppress the activity of pancreatic 
stellate cells (PSCs), through the 5'-adenosine monophosphate-activated protein 
kinase pathway of PANC-1 pancreatic cancer cells. In consequence, the 
PSC-mediated desmoplastic reactions generating α-smooth muscle actin and 
collagen were inhibited, which promoted the delivery of GEM and pH (low) 
insertion peptide (pHLIP) comodified magnetic nanoparticles (denoted as 
GEM-MNP-pHLIP). In addition, pHLIP largely increased the binding affinity of the 
nanodrug to PANC-1 cells. The targeted delivery and effective accumulation of 
MET/GEM-MNP-pHLIP in vivo were confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging enhanced 
by the underlying magnetic nanoparticles. The tumor growth inhibition of the 
sequential MET and GEM-MNP-pHLIP treatment were investigated on both 
subcutaneous and orthotopic tumor mice models. A remarkably improved therapeutic 
efficacy, for example, up to 91.2% growth inhibition ratio over 30 d of 
treatment, well-exemplified the novel cascade treatment for pancreatic cancer 
and the innovative use of MET.

DOI: 10.1021/jacs.0c00650
PMID: 32069041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
