1. Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom. 2020 May 30;34(10):e8759. doi: 10.1002/rcm.8759.

Protein precipitation coupled to paper spray with a tube for one-step analysis 
of blood.

Dai M(1), Huang G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at the Microscale, School of 
Chemistry and Materials Science, University of Science and Technology of China, 
Hefei, China.
(2)National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory, University of Science and 
Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui, China.

RATIONALE: Accurate measurement of trace compounds in blood samples is important 
in clinical diagnosis and life science. Ambient ionization mass spectrometry, 
however, suffers from the matrix effect when dealing with complex samples such 
as blood. Therefore, it is important to reduce the matrix effects in blood 
samples.
METHODS: A low-cost and disposable Teflon tube was used as a platform to 
precipitate the protein in blood. The analytes are extracted into organic 
solvent, and the precipitated protein can be adsorbed by the chromatography 
paper inserted. Therefore, the Teflon tube after precipitation can be directly 
subjected to paper spray ionization mass spectrometry, achieving one-step 
analysis of blood.
RESULTS: High sensitivity and satisfactory stability were achieved for 
pharmaceuticals, acids, and endogenic metabolites in blood. The absolute signal 
intensities of characteristic product ions of the tested analytes were 8-20 
times higher after protein precipitation than those obtained using paper spray. 
Detection limits and quantitative performance were evaluated for three drugs: 
carbamazepine, metformin, and tioconazole. In addition, the limits of detection 
and quantitation were improved 9-14- and 8-12-fold, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Protein precipitation coupled to paper spray with a tube and then 
to mass spectrometry was successfully achieved and applied in the one-step 
analysis of trace compounds in blood samples. The experimental results showed 
that this method was sensitive, stable, convenient, and economic for the direct 
analysis of blood.

Â© 2020 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/rcm.8759
PMID: 32065461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
