1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2020 Aug;393(8):1391-1404. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-020-01838-w. Epub 2020 Feb 20.

Impact of some oral hypoglycemic agents on type 2 diabetes-associated depression 
and reserpine-induced depression in rats: the role of brain oxidative stress and 
inflammation.

Soliman E(1), Essmat N(2), Mahmoud MF(2), Mahmoud AAA(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Zagazig 
University, Zagazig, 44519, Egypt. solimane@zu.edu.eg.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Zagazig 
University, Zagazig, 44519, Egypt.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Pharmacy Program, Oman College of Health 
Sciences, 114, Muscat, Oman.

Diabetes mellitus and depression are comorbid diseases affecting many patients 
all over the world. The current study was designed to compare the antidepressant 
effect of some antidiabetic drugs such as vildagliptin, pioglitazone, glyburide, 
and metformin on depression-related or unrelated to type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(T2DM). T2DM was induced by high-fat diet and streptozotocin, while 
diabetes-unrelated depression was induced by reserpine. Antidiabetic agents 
reduced diabetes-associated depression as indicated by the reduction in the 
immobility time in the forced swim test, elevation of cortical and hippocampal 
serotonin and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and the increase in 
serum β-Amyloid 1-42 (Aβ1-42) levels. Antidiabetic agents also reduced serum 
corticosterone levels suggesting their inhibitory effect on 
hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis activity. The antidepressant activity of the 
tested compounds was associated with reduction of oxidative stress and 
inflammation in brain. Vildagliptin showed the highest, while glyburide showed 
the least antidiabetic and antidepressant activity. Antidepressant activities of 
pioglitazone and metformin were comparable. The difference in antioxidant and 
anti-inflammatory activities between groups showed the same pattern of the 
antidepressant effect suggesting that these two pathways may play role in 
ameliorating depression in diabetic rats. On the other hand, the administration 
of reserpine in small doses (0.2 mg/kg) induced depression associated with 
hyperglycemia in non-diabetic rats. Although all treatments improved glycemic 
parameters to similar levels, vildagliptin showed the greatest effect on Aβ1-42, 
serotonin, norepinephrine, and BDNF levels. In conclusion, vildagliptin seems to 
be the leading drug among the tested antidiabetics and may be the most 
appropriate antidiabetic for managing diabetes-associated depression.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-020-01838-w
PMID: 32077986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
