1. Autophagy. 2021 Mar;17(3):656-671. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2020.1728095. Epub
2020  Feb 20.

AMPK activation does not enhance autophagy in neurons in contrast to MTORC1 
inhibition: different impact on β-amyloid clearance.

Benito-Cuesta I(1), Ordóñez-Gutiérrez L(1), Wandosell F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Biología Molecular "Severo Ochoa" (CSIC-UAM), Universidad Autónoma 
de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Alzheimer's Disease and Other Degenerative Dementias, Centro de Investigación 
Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain.

The physiological AKT-MTORC1 and AMPK signaling pathways are considered key 
nodes in the regulation of anabolism-catabolism, and particularly of 
macroautophagy/autophagy. Indeed, it is reported that these are altered 
processes in neurodegenerative proteinopathies such as Alzheimer disease (AD), 
mainly characterized by deposits of β-amyloid (Aβ) and hyperphosphorylated MAPT. 
These accumulations disrupt the optimal neuronal proteostasis, and hence, the 
recovery/enhancement of autophagy has been proposed as a therapeutic approach 
against these proteinopathies. The purpose of the present study was to 
characterize the modulation of autophagy by MTORC1 and AMPK signaling pathways 
in the highly specialized neurons, as well as their repercussions on Aβ 
production. Using a double transgenic mice model of AD, we demonstrated that 
MTORC1 inhibition, either in vivo or ex vivo (primary neuronal cultures), was 
able to reduce amyloid secretion through moderate autophagy induction in 
neurons. The pharmacological prevention of autophagy in neurons augmented the Aβ 
secretion and reversed the effect of rapamycin, confirming the 
anti-amyloidogenic effects of autophagy in neurons. Inhibition of AMPK with 
compound C generated the expected decrease in autophagy induction, though 
surprisingly did not increase the Aβ secretion. In contrast, increased activity 
of AMPK with metformin, AICAR, 2DG, or by gene overexpression did not enhance 
autophagy but had different effects on Aβ secretion: whereas metformin and 2DG 
diminished the secreted Aβ levels, AICAR and PRKAA1/AMPK gene overexpression 
increased them. We conclude that AMPK has a significantly different role in 
primary neurons than in other reported cells, lacking a direct effect on 
autophagy-dependent amyloidosis.Abbreviations: 2DG: 2-deoxy-D-glucose; Aβ: 
β-amyloid; ACACA: acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha; ACTB: actin beta; AD: Alzheimer 
disease; AICAR: 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-β-riboside; AKT: AKT kinases 
group (AKT1 [AKT serine/threonine kinase 1], AKT2 and AKT3); AMPK: adenosine 
5'-monophosphate (AMP)-activated protein kinase; APP: amyloid beta precursor 
protein; APP/PSEN1: B6.Cg-Tg (APPSwe, PSEN1dE9) 85Dbo/J; ATG: autophagy related; 
ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; CA: constitutively active; 
CGN: cerebellar granule neuron; CoC/compound C: dorsommorphin dihydrochloride; 
ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate 
dehydrogenase; GFP: green fluorescent protein; Gmax: GlutaMAX™; IN1: 
PIK3C3/VPS34-IN1; KI: kinase-inactive; MAP1LC3B/LC3: microtubule associated 
protein 1 light chain 3; MAPT/TAU: microtubule associated protein tau; Metf: 
metformin; MRT: MRT68921; MTORC1: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase complex 
1; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; PRKAA: 5'-AMP-activated protein kinase 
catalytic subunit alpha; PtdIns3K: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; Rapa: 
rapamycin; RPS6KB1/S6K: ribosomal protein S6 (RPS6) kinase polypeptide 1; SCR: 
scramble; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; ULK1/2: unc-51 like autophagy activating 
kinase 1/2; WT: wild type.

DOI: 10.1080/15548627.2020.1728095
PMCID: PMC8032230
PMID: 32075509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests. The Funders had no role in the study design, data collection and 
analysis, decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.
