1. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2020 Apr;162:108090. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2020.108090. Epub 2020 Feb 20.

Time to modification of antidiabetic therapy in patients over the age of 
65 years with newly diagnosed diabetes mellitus.

Machado-Alba JE(1), Machado-Duque ME(2), Gaviria-Mendoza A(2).

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Investigación en Farmacoepidemiología y Farmacovigilancia, 
Universidad Tecnológica de Pereira-Audifarma S.A., Calle 105 No. 14-140, Zip 
Code: 660003, Pereira, Risaralda, Colombia. Electronic address: 
machado@utp.edu.co.
(2)Grupo de Investigación en Farmacoepidemiología y Farmacovigilancia, 
Universidad Tecnológica de Pereira-Audifarma S.A., Calle 105 No. 14-140, Zip 
Code: 660003, Pereira, Risaralda, Colombia; Grupo de Investigación Biomedicina, 
Fundación Universitaria Autónoma de las Américas, Ave Las Américas # 98-56, 
Pereira, Colombia.

AIMS: To determine the time elapsed from when a patient ≥ 65 years old is 
diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and begins antidiabetic treatment 
until a change in treatment is required as well as the factors associated with 
the change.
METHODS: A retrospective study was conducted on patients 65 years or older with 
a first-time diagnosis of T2DM, and these patients were followed for 60 months 
until an addition or change was made to their antidiabetic drug regimen. 
Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was performed to determine the time elapsed until 
such a modification occurred.
RESULTS: We identified 13,573 patients with a mean age of 76.8 ± 7.7 years; 
59.3% were women. A total of 9144 (67.4%) patients began treatment with a single 
antidiabetic drug, 4146 (30.5%) began with two, and 282 (2.1%) began with three, 
especially metformin (n = 10858, 80.0%), sulfonylureas (n = 4525, 33.3%), and 
insulins (n = 2334, 17.2%). A total of 52.4% (n = 7106) of the patients 
underwent treatment modification (addition, 39.3% and change, 13.1%). Only 11.2% 
(n = 600) of the additions corresponded to new antidiabetic drugs (GLP-1 
receptor agonists, SGLT2 inhibitors, DPP4 inhibitors). The mean time to 
modification was 39.1 ± 23.4 months, and the modification occurred earlier in 
those who started with various antidiabetic agents (33.2 vs. 42.6 months; 
p < 0.001), men (38.3 vs. 40.4 months; p < 0.001), and those who took 
glibenclamide vs. metformin (31.9 vs. 44.6 months, p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Most elderly adults who were diagnosed with T2DM after 65 years of 
age were treated with the appropriate medications. Therapy was modified for more 
than half of the patients, The addition of new antidiabetic drugs was 
infrequent.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2020.108090
PMID: 32088311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.
