1. Reprod Sci. 2020 Sep;27(9):1752-1757. doi: 10.1007/s43032-020-00169-8. Epub
2020  Feb 21.

Impact of Disturbed Glucose Homeostasis Regulated by AMPK in Endometrium on 
Embryo Implantation in Diabetes Mice.

Zhang XQ(1), Zhao D(1), Ma YD(1), Wang YC(1), Zhang LX(1), Guo WJ(1), Zhang 
JH(1), Nie L(1), Yue LM(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, West China School of Basic Medical Sciences and 
Forensic Medicine, Sichuan University, No. 17 Section 3 Renmin South Road, 
Chengdu, 610041, China.
(2)Department of Physiology, West China School of Basic Medical Sciences and 
Forensic Medicine, Sichuan University, No. 17 Section 3 Renmin South Road, 
Chengdu, 610041, China. yuelimin@scu.edu.cn.
(3)Reproductive Endocrinology and Regulation Joint Laboratory, West China Second 
University Hospital, Sichuan University, 17 Section 3 Renmin South Road, 
Chengdu, 610041, People's Republic of China. yuelimin@scu.edu.cn.

The incidence of diabetes in women of childbearing age has been increasing 
recently and implantation failure and early abortion are important reasons for 
infertility in diabetic women. Glycogen synthesis and decomposition are the 
cores of glucose homeostasis in endometrium and AMPK is activated when cellular 
energy consumption increases. Embryo implantation is a complex process required 
huge energy. Yet the changes of glucose metabolism in endometrium and its impact 
on embryo implantation in diabetic women are still unclear. In this research, we 
established diabetic pregnancy mice model by intraperitoneal injecting 
streptozotocin on pregnant day 1. We first tested the changes of endometrial 
glucose homeostasis and embryo implantation. Next, we demonstrated abnormal 
activation of AMPK in the endometrium of diabetic mice and its affecting 
endometrial glucose homeostasis. Finally, we compared the endometrial glucose 
homeostasis and embryo implantation outcome in diabetic pregnant mice treated 
with insulin or insulin combined with metformin. The results indicated that 
there was disturbed glucose homeostasis associated with excessive activation of 
AMPK in endometrium of diabetic pregnant mice. AMPK inhibitor improved the 
over-activation of AMPK pathway in the endometrium, meanwhile, partially 
corrected the abnormal glycogen metabolism and improved the implantation. 
Insulin improved the disorder of endometrial glucose homeostasis and 
implantation of diabetic mice. Our research explores the causes of high abortion 
and infertility rate in diabetic women which is to provide a therapeutic 
reference for patients with diabetes complicated with infertility and early 
abortion.

DOI: 10.1007/s43032-020-00169-8
PMID: 32086756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
