1. J Chromatogr Sci. 2020 Apr 25;58(5):418-426. doi: 10.1093/chromsci/bmz124.

A Sensitive HPTLC Method for the Estimation of Glibenclamide, Rosiglitazone 
Maleate and Metformin Hydrochloride from a Multicomponent Dosage Form.

Bhende SD(1), Varanasi MB(2), Abbulu K(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological 
University Hyderabad, Kukatpally, Hyderabad, Telangana 500085, India.
(2)Department of Quality Assurance, Sultan Ul Uloom College of Pharmacy, Banjara 
Hills, Hyderabad, Telangana 500034, India.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutics, CMR College of Pharmacy, Kandlakoya (V), Medchal 
road, Hyderabad, Telangana 501401, India.

A sensitive, rapid and cost-effective method based on HPTLC with UV detection 
was developed for the quantitation of Glibenclamide (GLIBEN), Rosiglitazone 
maleate (ROSI) and Metformin hydrochloride (MET) from a combined dosage form. 
Pre-coated RP-18 F254s aluminum sheets were used as the stationary phase. 
Methanol-tetrahydrofuran-water-glacial acetic acid (16: 3.6: 4: 0.4, v/v) used 
as the mobile phase, along with chamber saturation of 10 min offered an optimum 
migration (Rf = 0.54, 0.62 and 0.80 for GLIBEN, ROSI and MET, respectively). TLC 
Scanner 3 was used for densitometric evaluation of the chromatograms. DigiStore 
2 Documentation System with winCATS software version 1.4.10 was used for the 
quantitation and photodocumentation. The LOD for GLIBEN, ROSI and MET was found 
to be 80 ng, 80 ng and 48 ng, respectively. Moreover, the LOQ was 200 ng, 200 ng 
and 120 ng for GLIBEN, ROSI and MET, respectively. The method was linear for 
GLIBEN (r = 0.9991), ROSI (r = 0.9993) and MET (r = 0.9988) within the tested 
range (200-1000, 200-1000 and 120-600 ng/band, respectively). The method was 
found to be precise and accurate for all the three drugs. The method was applied 
for the analysis of Triglucored tablets, and it proved to be a reliable quality 
control tool for the routine analysis of GLIBEN, ROSI and MET in a combined 
dosage form.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/chromsci/bmz124
PMID: 32086517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
