1. Case Rep Rheumatol. 2020 Jan 31;2020:5026490. doi: 10.1155/2020/5026490. 
eCollection 2020.

A Patient with Complex Gout with an Autoinflammatory Syndrome and a 
Sternoclavicular Joint Arthritis as Presenting Symptoms.

Fedeli MM(1), Vecchi M(2), Rodoni Cassis P(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Ospedale La Carità, Locarno, Switzerland.
(2)Centro Medico, Chiasso, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Radiology, Clinica Sant'Anna, Lugano-Sorengo, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Radiology, Clinica Ars Medica, Gravesano, Switzerland.

A 50-year-old man presented to the emergency department with widespread pain, 
especially at the chest level, fever, and night sweats. Physical examinations 
revealed a swelling with localized pain in the left sternoclavicular joint. 
Laboratory tests showed a CPR of 134 mg/l and an ESR of 70 mm/h. The patient's 
anamnesis is, for a chronic gouty arthritis, poorly controlled type 2 diabetes 
and a lumbosacral radicular syndrome. Home therapy includes metformin, 
sitagliptin, gliclazide, naproxen with partial benefit on pain, and febuxostat. 
Differential diagnoses of sternoclavicular swelling include infection, crystal 
or psoriatic arthropathy, tumor pathology, SAPHO syndrome, and osteoarthritis. 
An ultrasound scan performed at the thoracic level showed the presence of 
effusion in the sternoclavicular joint. A thoracoabdominal CT scan, performed in 
doubt of neoplasias, shows no masses but osteostructural nonspecific alterations 
of the sternoclavicular joint. We performed a dual energy CT (DECT) which 
reports a gouty arthropathy at the sternoclavicular joints (in the literature, 
only three similar cases are proved). Because of the poor therapeutic effects 
using febuxostat and systemic corticosteroids, the patient was treated with 
anakinra, an interleukin 1 receptor antagonist, which led, 6 months after the 
event, to a total remission.

Copyright © 2020 M. M. Fedeli et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/5026490
PMCID: PMC7013360
PMID: 32082683

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.
