1. J Psychiatr Res. 2020 May;124:9-12. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2020.02.015.
Epub  2020 Feb 18.

Metabolic measures 12 months after a randomised controlled trial of treatment of 
clozapine associated obesity and diabetes with exenatide (CODEX).

Siskind D(1), Russell A(2), Gamble C(3), Baker A(4), Cosgrove P(4), Burton L(4), 
Kisely S(5).

Author information:
(1)Metro South Addiction and Mental Health Service, Brisbane, Australia; 
University of Queensland, School of Medicine, Brisbane, Australia. Electronic 
address: d.siskind@uq.edu.au.
(2)University of Queensland, School of Medicine, Brisbane, Australia; Princess 
Alexandra Hospital, Australia.
(3)Metro South Addiction and Mental Health Service, Brisbane, Australia; 
Queensland Center for Mental Health Research Brisbane, Qld, Australia.
(4)Queensland Center for Mental Health Research Brisbane, Qld, Australia.
(5)Metro South Addiction and Mental Health Service, Brisbane, Australia; 
University of Queensland, School of Medicine, Brisbane, Australia.

Clozapine is associated with obesity and type 2 diabetes. 
Glucagon-like-peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists such as exenatide can counter 
clozapine-associated GLP-1 dysregulation. Our 24-week randomized, controlled, 
open-label, pilot trial of once-weekly extended-release subcutaneous exenatide 
or usual care (CODEX) (n = 28), found exenatide was associated with 
significantly greater weight loss. We examined whether this effect was 
maintained at 12-months post-intervention. We followed up CODEX trial 
participants at 12-months post trial endpoint, collecting information on weight, 
BMI, waist circumference, blood pressure, fasting glucose, HbA1c, and use of 
metformin. The primary outcome of interest was change in weight from trial 
baseline to 12-months post endpoint and trial endpoint to 12-months post 
endpoint compared between former exenatide and usual care participants. Only 
HbA1c differed between baseline and 12-months post endpoint between the 
exenatide and control groups. From endpoint to 12-month follow up there were 
significantly greater increases among the former exenatide versus former usual 
care participants for weight, BMI, HbA1c and proportion with >5% weight gain. 
Stratifying results by whether participants used metformin post trial did not 
alter proportion with >5% weight gain. Although there were no significant 
differences in weight and BMI between baseline and 12-month post endpoint, there 
were significant increases in weight and BMI in the 12 months post endpoint for 
the former exenatide group. This was irrespective of metformin use and is in 
keeping with studies of other GLP-1RA agents. Further studies on GLP-1RAs use 
beyond 24 weeks for people with clozapine associated weight gain are needed.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2020.02.015
PMID: 32087425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest No conflict of 
interest exists.
