1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Feb 21;21(4):1489. doi: 10.3390/ijms21041489.

Metformin Alleviates Left Ventricular Diastolic Dysfunction in a Rat Myocardial 
Ischemia Reperfusion Injury Model.

Jo W(1)(2), Kang KK(1), Chae S(3), Son WC(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory Animal Center, Daegu-Gyeongbuk Medical Innovation Foundation, 
Daegu 41061, Korea.
(2)Department of Pathology, Asan Medical Institute of Convergence Science and 
Technology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul 
05505, Korea.
(3)Korea Brain Bank, Korean Brain Research Institute, Daegu 41062, Korea.

An increased incidence of myocardial infarction (MI) has recently emerged as the 
cause of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality worldwide. In this study, 
cardiac function was investigated in a rat myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) 
model using echocardiography. Metformin administration significantly increased 
ejection fraction and fractional shortening values on Days 3 and 7 when MI 
occurred, indicating that metformin improved left ventricular systolic function. 
In the Sham + MET and MI + MET groups, the E' value was significantly different 
up to Day 3 but not at Day 7. This may mean that left ventricular diastolic 
function was effectively restored to some extent by Day 7 when metformin was 
administered. These results suggest that diastolic dysfunction, assessed by 
echocardiography, does not recover in the early phase of ischemic reperfusion 
injury in the rat myocardial I/R model. However, administering metformin 
resulted in recovery in the early phase of ischemic reperfusion injury in this 
model. Further gene expression profiling of left ventricle tissues revealed that 
the metformin-treated group had notably attenuated immune and inflammatory 
profiles. To sum up, a rat myocardial I/R injury model and ultrasound-based 
assessment of left ventricular systolic and diastolic function can be used in 
translational research and for the development of new heart failure-related 
drugs, in addition to evaluating the potential of metformin to improve left 
ventricular (LV) diastolic function.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21041489
PMCID: PMC7073047
PMID: 32098266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared no conflict of 
interest.
