1. Semergen. 2020 Sep;46(6):415-424. doi: 10.1016/j.semerg.2019.11.008. Epub 2020
 Feb 21.

[Management of type 2 diabetes mellitus in adolescents and young adults in 
primary care].

[Article in Spanish]

Miravet-Jiménez S(1), Pérez-Unanua MP(2), Alonso-Fernández M(3), Escobar-Lavado 
FJ(4), González-Mohino Loro B(5), Piera-Carbonell A(6).

Author information:
(1)EAP Martorell urbà-Institut Català de la Salut, Barcelona, España. Electronic 
address: smiravet12@gmail.com.
(2)CS Dr. Castroviejo, Servicio de Salud de la Comunidad de Madrid, Madrid, 
España.
(3)EAP La Ería, Servicio de Salud del Principado de Asturias, Oviedo, Asturias, 
España.
(4)CS Valsequillo, Servicio Canario de Salud, Las Palmas, Canarias, España.
(5)CS La Puebla de Montalbán, Servicio de Salud de Castilla-La Mancha, Toledo, 
España.
(6)CS Luanco, Servicio de Salud del Principado de Asturias, Gozón, Asturias, 
España.

The prevalence of type 2 diabetes (DM2) diagnosed in childhood and adolescence 
is currently increasing, and is characterised by a rapidly progressive decline 
in beta-cells and insulin resistance. Physical inactivity and obesity are the 
main risk factors for its development. Diagnostic criteria are similar to those 
used in adults, although HbA1c as a diagnostic method is questioned. 
Diabetes-related complications are more aggressive than in adults. Diabetic 
nephropathy is the most frequent complication in the young population and 
macrovascular complications appear early, leading to high mortality rates. 
Healthy lifestyles are the basis of the treatment, and metformin, insulin and 
liraglutide (approved by FDA for its use in the United States) are the 
pharmacological options indicated in this population. It is important to 
establish models of health care transition from paediatric to adult care to 
ensure continuity of care and avoid patient disengagements.

Copyright © 2019 Sociedad Española de Médicos de Atención Primaria (SEMERGEN). 
Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semerg.2019.11.008
PMID: 32094051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
