1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Feb 20;21(4):1451. doi: 10.3390/ijms21041451.

The Surprising Effect of Phenformin on Cutaneous Darkening and Characterization 
of Its Underlying Mechanism by a Forward Chemical Genetics Approach.

Takano K(1), Hachiya A(2), Murase D(1), Kawasaki A(3), Uda H(4), Kasamatsu S(1), 
Sugai Y(3), Takahashi Y(1), Hase T(5), Ohuchi A(3), Suzuki T(6).

Author information:
(1)Biological Science Research, Kao Corporation, Odawara 250-0002, Japan.
(2)Planning and Implementation, Kao Corporation, Haga 321-3497, Japan.
(3)Biological Science Research, Kao Corporation, Haga 321-3497, Japan.
(4)Department of Plastic Surgery, Jichi Medical University, Shimotsuke 329-0498, 
Japan.
(5)Core Technology Sector, Kao Corporation, Sumida 131-0044, Japan.
(6)Department of Dermatology, Yamagata University Faculty of Medicine, Yamagata 
990-9585, Japan.

Melanin in the epidermis is known to ultimately regulate human skin 
pigmentation. Recently, we exploited a phenotypic-based screening system 
composed of ex vivo human skin cultures to search for effective materials to 
regulate skin pigmentation. Since a previous study reported the potent 
inhibitory effect of metformin on melanogenesis, we evaluated several biguanide 
compounds. The unexpected effect of phenformin, once used as an oral 
anti-diabetic drug, on cutaneous darkening motivated us to investigate its 
underlying mechanism utilizing a chemical genetics approach, and especially to 
identify alternatives to phenformin because of its risk of severe lactic 
acidosis. Chemical pull-down assays with phenformin-immobilized beads were 
performed on lysates of human epidermal keratinocytes, and subsequent mass 
spectrometry identified 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase (DHCR7). Consistent with 
this, AY9944, an inhibitor of DHCR7, was found to decrease autophagic melanosome 
degradation in keratinocytes and to intensely darken skin in ex vivo cultures, 
suggesting the involvement of cholesterol biosynthesis in the metabolism of 
melanosomes. Thus, our results validated the combined utilization of the 
phenotypic screening system and chemical genetics as a new approach to develop 
promising materials for brightening/lightening and/or tanning technologies.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21041451
PMCID: PMC7073119
PMID: 32093380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
