1. JNCI Cancer Spectr. 2019 Nov 20;4(1):pkz096. doi: 10.1093/jncics/pkz096. 
eCollection 2020 Feb.

Randomized Phase II Trial of Exercise, Metformin, or Both on Metabolic 
Biomarkers in Colorectal and Breast Cancer Survivors.

Meyerhardt JA(1), Irwin ML(1), Jones LW(1), Zhang S(1), Campbell N(1), Brown 
JC(1), Pollak M(1), Sorrentino A(1), Cartmel B(1), Harrigan M(1), Tolaney SM(1), 
Winer E(1), Ng K(1), Abrams T(1), Fuchs CS(1), Sanft T(1), Douglas PS(1), Hu 
F(1), Ligibel JA(1).

Author information:
(1)See the Notes section for the full list of authors' affiliations.

Comment in
    JNCI Cancer Spectr. 2019 Nov 20;4(1):pkz097.

BACKGROUND: Observational data support inverse relationships between exercise or 
metformin use and disease outcomes in colorectal and breast cancer survivors, 
although the mechanisms underlying these associations are not well understood.
METHODS: In a phase II trial, stage I-III colorectal and breast cancer survivors 
who completed standard therapy were randomly assigned to structured exercise or 
metformin or both or neither for 12 weeks. The primary outcome was change in 
fasting insulin levels; secondary outcomes included changes in other blood-based 
energetic biomarkers and anthropometric measurements. Analyses used linear mixed 
models.
RESULTS: In total, 139 patients were randomly assigned; 91 (65%) completed 
follow-up assessments. Fasting insulin levels statistically significantly 
decreased in all three intervention arms (-2.47 μU/mL combination arm, -0.08 
μU/mL exercise only, -1.16 μU/mL metformin only, + 2.79 μU/mL control arm). 
Compared with the control arm, all groups experienced statistically significant 
weight loss between baseline and 12 weeks (-1.8% combination arm, -0.22% 
exercise only, -1.0% metformin only, +1.55% control). The combination arm also 
experienced statistically significant improvements in the homeostatic model 
assessment for insulin resistance (-30.6% combination arm, +61.2% control) and 
leptin (-42.2% combination arm, -0.8% control), compared with the control arm. 
The interventions did not change insulin-like growth factor-1 or insulin-like 
growth factor binding protein-3 measurements as compared with the control arm. 
Tolerance to metformin limited compliance (approximately 50% of the participants 
took at least 75% of the planned dosages in both treatment arms).
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of exercise and metformin statistically 
significantly improved insulin and associated metabolic markers, as compared to 
the control arm, with potential greater effect than either exercise or metformin 
alone though power limited formal synergy testing. Larger efforts are warranted 
to determine if such a combined modality intervention can improve outcomes in 
colorectal and breast cancer survivors.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/jncics/pkz096
PMCID: PMC7025659
PMID: 32090192
