1. Biol Trace Elem Res. 2020 Dec;198(2):544-556. doi: 10.1007/s12011-020-02082-2.
 Epub 2020 Feb 26.

Co-administration of Selenium Nanoparticles and Metformin Abrogate Testicular 
Oxidative Injury by Suppressing Redox Imbalance, Augmenting Sperm Quality and 
Nrf2 Protein Expression in Streptozotocin-Induced Diabetic Rats.

Ebokaiwe AP(1), Obeten KE(2), Okori SO(2), David EE(3), Olusanya O(4), Chukwu 
CJ(3), Okoro N(5), Ehiri RC(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry/Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Alex Ekwueme 
Federal University, Ndufu-Alike Ikwo, PMB 1010, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, 
Nigeria. petazk@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Anatomy, Cross River University of Technology, Cross River 
State, Okuku, Nigeria.
(3)Department of Chemistry/Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Alex Ekwueme 
Federal University, Ndufu-Alike Ikwo, PMB 1010, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, 
Nigeria.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, University of Benein, Benin City, Nigeria.
(5)Department of Biology/Microbiology/Biotechnology, Alex-Ekwueme Federal 
University, Ndufu-Alike, Nigeria.

Selenium nanoparticles (SeNPs) and metformin (Met) elicit individually 
protective effects against testicular oxidative injury in diabetic rats. 
However, the combined effects of both compounds have not been investigated. We 
investigated the effects of SeNPs and Met individual/co-treatment on testicular 
oxidative injury in diabetic rats. Diabetes was induced by a single 
intraperitoneal administration of streptozotocin (STZ-40 mg/kg bwt). The rats 
were equally divided into 6 groups: Group one-non-diabetic; group two-diabetic 
untreated; and group six-non-diabetic received citrate buffer (2 mL/kg bwt), 
while group three, four, and five received SeNPs (0.1 mg/kg bwt), Met (50 mg/kg 
bwt), and SeNPs/Met combined respectively, for 42 days. Results revealed that 
SeNPs, as well as Met treatment significantly (p < 0.001), lowered blood glucose 
levels and improved relative organ weights in treated rats than those of the 
untreated group. Moreover, a synergistic effect was observed in the 
co-administration group. Additionally, combined treatment elicited better 
effect, in augmenting the pituitary and testicular hormone (LH, FSH, prolactin, 
and testosterone) levels, marker enzymes/protein associated with steroidogenesis 
(3-βHSD, 17-βHSD, and StAR protein), and sperm functional parameters than those 
of individual treatment groups, when compared with control. Furthermore, the 
combinatorial effects of SeNPs and Met surpassed their influence in attenuating 
testicular oxidative stress/inflammation and upregulation of Nrf2 protein 
expression in diabetic rats when compared with control. Overall, normal rats, 
co-treated with SeNPs and Met, did not reveal any deleterious effect. Therefore, 
SeNPs and Met combined treatment may better improve testes function in diabetic 
conditions than an individual regimen.

DOI: 10.1007/s12011-020-02082-2
PMID: 32103411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
