1. Rev Clin Esp (Barc). 2020 Jun-Jul;220(5):305-314. doi: 
10.1016/j.rce.2019.12.003. Epub 2020 Feb 24.

When does diabetes start? Early detection and intervention in type2 diabetes 
mellitus.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Gómez-Peralta F(1), Abreu C(2), Cos X(3), Gómez-Huelgas R(4).

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Endocrinología y Nutrición, Hospital General de Segovia, Segovia, 
España. Electronic address: fgomezperalta@gmail.com.
(2)Unidad de Endocrinología y Nutrición, Hospital General de Segovia, Segovia, 
España.
(3)Innovation and Health in Primary Care Barcelona City, Gerència Barcelona 
Ciutat, Institut Català de la Salut, Barcelona, España; Fundació Institut 
Universitari d'Investigació en Atenció Primària Jordi Gol i Gurina (IDIAPJGol), 
Barcelona, España.
(4)Departamento de Medicina Interna, Hospital Regional Universitario, Instituto 
de Investigación Biomédica de Málaga (IBIMA), Universidad de Málaga (UMA), 
Málaga, España.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2) is a progressive disease whose pathophysiological 
changes occur several years before its detection. An approach based on the 
pathophysiological development of DM2 and its complications emphasises the 
importance of early and intensive intervention, not only to prevent beta-cell 
dysfunction but also to act on the potential associated cardiovascular risk 
factors before reaching the blood glucose thresholds currently set for 
diagnosing DM2. In the field of recently diagnosed DM2, the VERIFY study has 
shown that early treatment combined with metformin-vildagliptin provides 
relevant improvements in long-term glycaemic control and can positively affect 
the disease's progression.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier España, S.L.U. and Sociedad Española de Medicina 
Interna (SEMI). All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rce.2019.12.003
PMID: 32107016
