1. J Chin Med Assoc. 2020 Apr;83(4):327-336. doi: 10.1097/JCMA.0000000000000276.

Second revolution in cardiovascular prevention.

Chiang CE(1)(2)(3), Wang KL(1)(2)(3), Cheng HM(2)(3)(4), Sung SH(2)(3), Chao 
TF(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)General Clinical Research Center, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan, ROC.
(2)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Taipei Veterans General 
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.
(3)School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.
(4)Center for Evidence-based Medicine, Department of Medical Education, Taipei 
Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.

Type 2 diabetes has become a major disease burden in twenty-first century. Both 
incidence and prevalence of type 2 diabetes have quadrupled between 1980 and 
2004 in the whole world. Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) is the 
major complication of type 2 diabetes. The introduction of statins in clinical 
settings is the first revolution in our battle against ASCVD. Most ASCVDs could 
be prevented or treated with statins. However, statin failed to reduce chronic 
kidney diseases (CKD) and heart failure (HF). Owing to a mandate from US Food 
and Drug Administration in 2008 that every new antidiabetic drug should be 
tested in clinical trials to demonstrate its safety, we now have a good 
opportunity to look for better antidiabetic drugs not only to decrease blood 
sugar but also to decrease CVD or renal disease. Among them, glucagon-like 
peptide-1 receptor agonists and sodium-glucose transport protein 2 inhibitors 
(SGLT-2 i) are two most extensively studied ones. SGLT-2 i, in particular, 
prevent CKD and end-stage renal disease, and prevent HF. In the recent CREDENCE 
trial, canagliflozin reduced renal endpoints by 34% and end-stage renal disease 
by 32%. Furthermore, in the recent DAPA-HF trial, dapagliflozin decreased 
hospitalization for HF/cardiovascular death by 26%, and total death by 17%, in 
patients with HF with reduced ejection fraction, irrespective of diabetes or 
nondiabetes. The beneficial effects of SGLT-2 i in CKD and HF are complementary 
to the effects of statins. The introduction of SGLT-2 i in clinical practice is 
the second revolution in cardiovascular prevention.

DOI: 10.1097/JCMA.0000000000000276
PMID: 32101893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
