1. Arch Med Res. 2020 Apr;51(3):204-214. doi: 10.1016/j.arcmed.2020.02.001. Epub 
2020 Feb 26.

Isopulegol Mitigates Hyperglycemia Mediated Oxidative and Endoplasmic Reticulum 
Stress in HFD/STZ Induced Diabetic Rats.

Sankaranarayanan C(1), Kalaivani K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, Annamalai University, 
Annamalainagar, Tamilnadu, India. Electronic address: sankarhari05@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, Annamalai University, 
Annamalainagar, Tamilnadu, India.

BACKGROUND: Oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stresses contribute to the 
pathogenesis of β-cell dysfunction in diabetes mellitus. This study investigates 
the effect of isopulegol on the above stresses in HFD/STZ induced diabetic rats.
METHODS: Animals in group I and II were placed in normal pellet diet and group 
II was treated with isopulegol at 200 mg/kg b.w. Animals in groups III-V were 
placed in HFD for 4 weeks and made diabetic with single intraperitoneal 
injection of STZ (35 mg/kg b.w) in 0.1 M citrate buffer (pH 4.5). Group III 
served as diabetic control while animals in group IV and V were treated with 
isopulegol (100 mg/kg b.w) and metformin (25 mg/kg b.w) respectively for 28 d.
RESULTS: The activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), 
glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione sulphur transferase (GST), glutathione 
reductase (GR) and the levels of vitamin-E, vitamin-C, reduced glutathione (GSH) 
were significantly (p <0.05) decreased in plasma and tissues of diabetic rats. 
Thiobarbituric acid reactive acid substances (TBARS) and lipid hydroperoxides 
(LHP), indices of lipid peroxidation were also significantly (p <0.05) increased 
in diabetic rats. In pancreatic tissue ER stress markers PERK, elf2α, ATF4 and 
in hepatic tissue oxidative stress marker UCP-2 expression was significantly (p 
<1.0) increased in diabetic rats. Administration of isopulegol significantly 
improved antioxidant status and decreased oxidative and ER stress markers in 
diabetic treated rats. Histopathological studies on liver and kidney supported 
the above findings. The results are comparable with the standard drug metformin.
CONCLUSIONS: Isopulegol a naturally occurring monoterpene alcohol attenuated 
oxidative and ER stress in HFD/STZ induced diabetic rats.

Copyright © 2020 IMSS. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcmed.2020.02.001
PMID: 32111490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
