1. Value Health. 2020 Feb;23(2):217-226. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2019.09.2746. Epub 
2019 Oct 24.

Comparison of Different Case-Crossover Variants in Handling Exposure-Time Trend 
or Persistent-User Bias: Using Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors and the Risk of 
Heart Failure as an Example.

Dong YH(1), Wang SV(2), Gagne JJ(2), Wu LC(3), Chang CH(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Science, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, 
Taiwan; Institute of Public Health, School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacoeconomics, Department of 
Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan; Department of Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan; 
Institute of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, College of Public Health, 
National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
chiahsuin@yahoo.com.

OBJECTIVES: Inappropriate use of the case-crossover design, which is efficient 
for examining associations between brief exposure and abrupt outcomes, in 
evaluating the effects of medications in the presence of exposure-time trends or 
persistent drug use may generate spurious associations. We compared different 
approaches to adjusting for these sources of bias by examining the risk of heart 
failure hospitalization (HFH) associated with dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) 
inhibitors. Overall, existing evidence does not suggest a higher risk of HFH 
associated with DPP-4 inhibitors; however, case-crossover analyses of these 
medications may be susceptible to bias.
METHODS: We conducted case-crossover; age, sex, risk-set (ASR) matched 
case-time-control; disease risk score (DRS)-matched case-time-control; and 
case-case-time-control analyses to assess the association between DPP-4 
inhibitors and HFH among patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) in a 
population-based Taiwanese database. We also examined metformin and 
sulfonylureas, both with assumed null associations.
RESULTS: Among 362 022 DM patients, 4105 (case-crossover), 4103 (ASR-matched 
case-time-control), 3957 (DRS-matched case-time-control), and 2812 
(case-case-time-control) HFH cases were identified. The OR for DPP-4 inhibitors 
and HFH was elevated in the case-crossover analysis (1.52; 95% confidence 
interval [95% CI] 0.95-2.42). The ASR-matched case-time control, DRS-matched 
case-time-control, and case-case-time control analyses yielded near-null 
associations (0.90 [95% CI 0.45-1.83], 0.96 [95% CI 0.46-2.02], and 0.92 [95% CI 
0.39-2.21], respectively). Null effects were observed for metformin across 
designs and for sulfonylureas in the case-case-time control analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Our case-crossover analysis suggested DPP-4 inhibitors may be 
associated with HFH; however, each method for adjusting for exposure-time and 
persistent user bias attenuated the findings. The case-case-time-control 
analysis had the least precision.

Copyright © 2019 ISPOR–The Professional Society for Health Economics and 
Outcomes Research. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2019.09.2746
PMID: 32113627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
