1. Cardiovasc Ther. 2020 Feb 11;2020:1936406. doi: 10.1155/2020/1936406. 
eCollection 2020.

Bredemolic Acid Improves Cardiovascular Function and Attenuates Endothelial 
Dysfunction in Diet-Induced Prediabetes: Effects on Selected Markers.

Akinnuga AM(1), Siboto A(1), Khumalo B(1), Sibiya NH(2), Ngubane P(1), Khathi 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Laboratory Medicine and Medical Sciences, 
College of Health Sciences, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Westville, Durban, 
South Africa.
(2)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, Rhodes University, Grahamstown, 
South Africa.

Prediabetes is an intermediate hyperglycaemic state which has been associated 
with cardiovascular dysfunction. However, cardiovascular dysfunction is not only 
caused by intermediate hyperglycaemia but also endothelial dysfunction, 
inflammation, and oxidative stress associated with prediabetes. Bredemolic acid 
(BA), an isomer of maslinic acid, has been reported to ameliorate the 
intermediate hyperglycaemia found in prediabetes; however, the effects of this 
triterpene on cardiovascular function have not yet been determined. Therefore, 
this study investigated the effects of BA on cardiovascular function in 
diet-induced prediabetic rats. Thirty-six male rats that weighed 150-180 g were 
divided into two groups, the non-prediabetic (n = 6) and the prediabetic groups 
(n = 30), which were fed normal diet (ND) and HFHC diet, respectively. The 
prediabetic rats were further subdivided into five groups (n = 6) and treated 
with either BA (80 mg/kg) or metformin (MET, 500 mg/kg) every third day for 12 
weeks. After 12 weeks, blood samples and the heart were collected for 
biochemical analysis. The untreated prediabetic rats showed a significant 
increase in body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC), blood pressure, 
heart rate, lipid profile, lipid peroxidation, and inflammatory markers with 
significant decrease in endothelial function and antioxidant biomarkers by 
comparison with the non-prediabetic animals. The administration of BA 
significantly improved cardiovascular functions such as blood pressure, heart 
rate, and endothelial function. There was also a significant decrease in BMI, 
WC, lipid profile, lipid peroxidation, and inflammation with a concomitant 
increase in antioxidant capacity. BA administration improved cardiovascular 
function by attenuation of oxidative stress, inflammatory, and endothelial 
dysfunction markers.

Copyright © 2020 Akinjide Moses Akinnuga et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/1936406
PMCID: PMC7036119
PMID: 32117470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
