1. Case Rep Endocrinol. 2020 Feb 14;2020:6724504. doi: 10.1155/2020/6724504. 
eCollection 2020.

Dapagliflozin-Induced Acute Pancreatitis: A Case Report and Review of 
Literature.

Sujanani SM(1), Elfishawi MM(1), Zarghamravanbaksh P(1), Castillo FJC(1), Reich 
DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, NYC Health 
and Hospitals/Queens, Jamaica, NY 11432, USA.

Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors are increasingly used as 
add-on therapy in patients with poorly controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(T2DM). Although pancreatitis is not a known side effect of SGLT-2 inhibitors, 
there have been case reports of SGLT-2 inhibitor use being associated with 
pancreatitis. Case Presentation. A 51-year-old male with a history of type 2 
diabetes, dyslipidemia, and status-post cholecystectomy presented to the 
emergency room with a four-day history of periumbilical pain radiating to the 
back. He denied any history of recent alcohol intake or prior episodes of 
pancreatitis. On physical examination, his abdomen was diffusely tender to 
palpation without guarding or rebound. Initial labs were notable for a leukocyte 
count of 9.3 × 109/L, creatinine level of 0.72 mg/dL, calcium level of 
9.5 mg/dL, lipase level of 262 U/L, and triglyceride level of 203 mg/dL. His 
last HbA1c was 8.5%. CT scan of his abdomen and pelvis showed findings 
consistent with acute pancreatitis with no biliary ductal dilatation. Careful 
review of his medications revealed the patient was recently started on 
dapagliflozin five days prior to admission in addition to his longstanding 
regimen of insulin detemir, sitagliptin, metformin, and rosuvastatin. His 
symptoms resolved after discontinuation of sitagliptin and dapagliflozin. A year 
later, due to increasing HbA1c levels, a decision was made to rechallenge the 
patient with dapagliflozin, after which he developed another episode of acute 
pancreatitis. His symptoms resolved upon cessation of dapagliflozin. Conclusion. 
This case highlights the possible association of SGLT-2 inhibitors and 
pancreatitis. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of acute 
pancreatitis and advised to discontinue SGLT-2 inhibitors in case such symptoms 
occur.

Copyright © 2020 Sunam M. Sujanani et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/6724504
PMCID: PMC7044483
PMID: 32123591

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest regarding the publication of this article.
