1. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2020 May;373(2):261-268. doi: 10.1124/jpet.119.263459. 
Epub 2020 Mar 3.

Hepatic Transporter Alterations by Nuclear Receptor Agonist T0901317 in 
Sandwich-Cultured Human Hepatocytes: Proteomic Analysis and PBPK Modeling to 
Evaluate Drug-Drug Interaction Risk.

Ito K(1), Sjöstedt N(1), Malinen MM(1), Guo C(1), Brouwer KLR(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacotherapy and Experimental Therapeutics, UNC Eshelman 
School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, 
North Carolina (K.I., N.S., M.M.M., C.G., K.L.R.B.) and Drug Metabolism and 
Pharmacokinetics Research Department, Teijin Pharma Limited, Hino, Tokyo, Japan 
(K.I.).
(2)Division of Pharmacotherapy and Experimental Therapeutics, UNC Eshelman 
School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, 
North Carolina (K.I., N.S., M.M.M., C.G., K.L.R.B.) and Drug Metabolism and 
Pharmacokinetics Research Department, Teijin Pharma Limited, Hino, Tokyo, Japan 
(K.I.) kbrouwer@unc.edu.

In vitro approaches for predicting drug-drug interactions (DDIs) caused by 
alterations in transporter protein regulation are not well established. However, 
reports of transporter regulation via nuclear receptor (NR) modulation by drugs 
are increasing. This study examined alterations in transporter protein levels in 
sandwich-cultured human hepatocytes (SCHH; n = 3 donors) measured by liquid 
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis after treatment 
with 
N-[4-(1,1,1,3,3,3-hexafluoro-2-hydroxypropan-2-yl)phenyl]-N-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)benzenesulfonamide 
(T0901317), the first described synthetic liver X receptor agonist. T0901317 
treatment (10 μM, 48 hours) decreased the levels of organic cation transporter 
(OCT) 1 (0.22-, 0.43-, and 0.71-fold of control) and organic anion transporter 
(OAT) 2 (0.38-, 0.38-, and 0.53-fold of control) and increased multidrug 
resistance protein (MDR) 1 (1.37-, 1.48-, and 1.59-fold of control). The 
induction of NR downstream gene expression supports the hypothesis that T0901317 
off-target effects on farnesoid X receptor and pregnane X receptor activation 
are responsible for the unexpected changes in OCT1, OAT2, and MDR1. Uptake of 
the OCT1 substrate metformin in SCHH was decreased by T0901317 treatment. 
Effects of decreased OCT1 levels on metformin were simulated using a 
physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model. Simulations showed a clear 
decrease in metformin hepatic exposure resulting in a decreased pharmacodynamic 
effect. This DDI would not be predicted by the modest changes in simulated 
metformin plasma concentrations. Altogether, the current study demonstrated that 
an approach combining SCHH, proteomic analysis, and PBPK modeling is useful for 
revealing tissue concentration-based DDIs caused by unexpected regulation of 
hepatic transporters by NR modulators. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This study 
utilized an approach combining sandwich-cultured human hepatocytes, proteomic 
analysis, and physiologically based pharmacokinetic modeling to evaluate 
alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) caused by 
transporter regulation by nuclear receptor modulators. The importance of this 
approach from a mechanistic and clinically relevant perspective is that it can 
reveal drug-drug interactions (DDIs) caused by unexpected regulation of hepatic 
transporters and enable prediction of altered PK and PD changes, especially for 
tissue concentration-based DDIs.

Copyright © 2020 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental 
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.119.263459
PMCID: PMC7180047
PMID: 32127372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
