1. Mol Biol Rep. 2020 Apr;47(4):2635-2647. doi: 10.1007/s11033-020-05352-3. Epub 
2020 Mar 3.

Dysregulated lipid metabolism in hepatocellular carcinoma cancer stem cells.

Bort A(1), Sánchez BG(1), de Miguel I(1), Mateos-Gómez PA(1), Diaz-Laviada 
I(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Unit, Department of System Biology, School 
of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Alcalá, Ctra A-2, Km 32, 28871, 
Alcalá de Henares, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Unit, Department of System Biology, School 
of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Alcalá, Ctra A-2, Km 32, 28871, 
Alcalá de Henares, Madrid, Spain. ines.diazlaviada@uah.es.
(3)Chemical Research Institute "Andrés M. del Río" (IQAR), Alcalá University, 
28871, Alcalá de Henares, Madrid, Spain. ines.diazlaviada@uah.es.

According to the stem cell theory for cancer, hepatocellular carcinomas are 
sustained by a group of cancer stem cells (CSCs) which are responsible for 
resistance to chemotherapy. In the present study we aimed to examine lipid 
metabolism in cancer stem cells induced by long-term treatment with sorafenib 
and its relationship with acquisition of a CSC-like phenotype. Two cell lines 
(HepG2SF1 and Huh7SF1) were generated by incubation with a step-wise increase of 
sorafenib concentrations for 10 months. These cell lines displayed stem-like 
characteristics like increase in the expression of ABCB1A, Nanog and Oct4 as 
well as an E-cadherin/N-cadherin switch. HepG2SF1 and Huh7SF1 cells showed 
intracellular accumulation of neutral lipids, assessed by flow cytometry and 
confocal microscopy. The exam of lipid metabolism revealed that HepG2SF1 and 
Huh7SF1 cells increased the expression of the enzymes involved in de novo lipid 
synthesis ATP-citrate lyase (ACLY), acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) and fatty acid 
synthase (FASN) and that of the fatty acid transporter CD36. In addition, these 
CSC-like cells had enhanced expression of the lipogenic transcription factor 
SREBP1c. Analysis of the key metabolic sensor AMP-activated kinase (AMPK) 
demonstrated that both AMPK phosphorylation and levels were decreased in the 
CSC-like cells compared to their parental cells. Interestingly, transfection of 
HepG2SF1 and Huh7SF1 cells with AMPK, restored the levels of the lipogenic 
enzymes and SREBP1c and decreased the intracellular lipid accumulation. 
Furthermore, AMPK transfection decreased the stemness markers and inhibited the 
E-cadherin/N-cadherin switch. Targeting AMPK and lipid metabolism of 
hepatocellular cancer stem cells is a promising strategy to face stemness and 
chemotherapy resistance.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-020-05352-3
PMID: 32125560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
