1. Pharmacol Res. 2020 May;155:104737. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2020.104737. Epub 2020
 Feb 29.

Therapeutic potential of blood flow mimetic compounds in preventing endothelial 
dysfunction and atherosclerosis.

Xu S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Division of Life Sciences and Medicine, University of Science and 
Technology of China (USTC), Hefei, 230001, China. Electronic address: 
sxu1984@ustc.edu.cn.

Endothelial cells (ECs), as one of the most important types of vascular cells, 
line the innermost layer of all blood vessels throughout human body and regulate 
vascular tone and homeostasis. ECs are constantly exposed to different types of 
shear stress (one form of mechanical forces) generated by the flowing blood. 
Various mechanosensing molecules or complexes existing on EC membrane serve as 
versatile sensors (termed as mechanosensors) of different patterns and pattern 
alternation of blood flow. Via these mechanosensors, ECs sense and transduce 
flow-induced biomechanical signal into different mechano-transduction pathways, 
leading to altered expression/activity of mechanosensitive transcription factors 
(TFs), epigenetic modification enzymes, non-coding RNAs, and genes, thereby 
generating biological responses (i.e., the regulation of endothelial function). 
Dysfunction of ECs (i.e., endothelial dysfunction) represents one of the most 
important pathomechanisms for atherosclerosis, hypertension and diabesity. 
Emerging studies have demonstrated that pharmacological modulators of 
mechanosensors/TFs/enzymes improve endothelial dysfunction and reduce the 
incidence of experimental atherosclerosis. Here, I overviewed the important role 
of endothelial mechanoregulators in vascular endothelium, highlighting the 
potential of blood flow mimetic compounds to treat endothelial dysfunction and 
associated atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2020.104737
PMID: 32126273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The author has 
no conflict of interest to disclose.
