1. Diabetes Care. 2020 May;43(5):975-981. doi: 10.2337/dc19-1380. Epub 2020 Mar
4.

Initial Glycemic Control and Care Among Younger Adults Diagnosed With Type 2 
Diabetes.

Gopalan A(1), Mishra P(2), Alexeeff SE(2), Blatchins MA(2), Kim E(3), Man A(4), 
Karter AJ(2), Grant RW(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Oakland, CA 
anjali.gopalan@kp.org.
(2)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Oakland, CA.
(3)Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Oakland Medical Center, Oakland, CA.
(4)Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Santa Clara Medical Center, Santa 
Clara, CA.

OBJECTIVE: The prevalence of type 2 diabetes is increasing among adults under 
age 45. Onset of type 2 diabetes at a younger age increases an individual's risk 
for diabetes-related complications. Given the lasting benefits conferred by 
early glycemic control, we compared glycemic control and initial care between 
adults with younger onset (21-44 years) and mid-age onset (45-64 years) of type 
2 diabetes.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Using data from a large, integrated health care 
system, we identified 32,137 adults (aged 21-64 years) with incident diabetes 
(first HbA1c ≥6.5% [≥48 mmol/mol]). We excluded anyone with evidence of prior 
type 2 diabetes, gestational diabetes mellitus, or type 1 diabetes. We used 
generalized linear mixed models, adjusting for demographic and clinical 
variables, to examine differences in glycemic control and care at 1 year.
RESULTS: Of identified individuals, 26.4% had younger-onset and 73.6% had 
mid-age-onset type 2 diabetes. Adults with younger onset had higher initial mean 
HbA1c values (8.9% [74 mmol/mol]) than adults with onset in mid-age (8.4% [68 
mmol/mol]) (P < 0.0001) and lower odds of achieving an HbA1c <7% (<53 mmol/mol) 
1 year after the diagnosis (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 0.70 [95% CI 0.66-0.74]), 
even after accounting for HbA1c at diagnosis. Adults with younger onset had 
lower odds of in-person primary care contact (aOR 0.82 [95% CI 0.76-0.89]) than 
those with onset during mid-age, but they did not differ in telephone contact 
(1.05 [0.99-1.10]). Adults with younger onset had higher odds of starting 
metformin (aOR 1.20 [95% CI 1.12-1.29]) but lower odds of adhering to that 
medication (0.74 [0.69-0.80]).
CONCLUSIONS: Adults with onset of type 2 diabetes at a younger age were less 
likely to achieve glycemic control at 1 year following diagnosis, suggesting the 
need for tailored care approaches to improve outcomes for this high-risk patient 
population.

© 2020 by the American Diabetes Association.

DOI: 10.2337/dc19-1380
PMCID: PMC7171948
PMID: 32132007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This article is featured in a podcast available 
at https://www.diabetesjournals.org/content/diabetes-core-update-podcasts.
