1. Int J Med Sci. 2020 Jan 16;17(3):302-309. doi: 10.7150/ijms.39342. eCollection
 2020.

Inverse Association between Metformin and Amiodarone-Associated Extracardiac 
Adverse Events.

Kinoshita S(1), Hosomi K(2), Yokoyama S(2), Takada M(2).

Author information:
(1)Ebisu Pharmacy, 2-7-24, Motomachi, Naniwa-ku, Osaka-shi, Osaka, Japan.
(2)Division of Clinical Drug Informatics, School of Pharmacy, Kindai University, 
3-4-1, Kowakae, Higashi-osaka, Osaka, Japan.

Background: The association between metformin and amiodarone-induced adverse 
events was examined using spontaneous adverse event database. Additionally, the 
association between other antidiabetic drugs and amiodarone-induced adverse 
events were also examined. Methods: A total of 6,153,696 reports from the first 
quarter of 2004 through the fourth quarter of 2015 were downloaded from the US 
Food and Drug Administration adverse event reporting system. Reporting odds 
ratio (ROR) and information component (IC) were used to detect associations 
between antidiabetic drugs and amiodarone-associated adverse events. 
Additionally, subset data analysis was performed to investigate whether the use 
of antidiabetic drugs further increased or decreased the risk of adverse events 
in patients receiving amiodarone therapy. Next, the RORs were adjusted for 
coadministered antidiabetic drugs using logistic regression analysis. Results: 
By whole dataset analysis, significant inverse associations were found between 
metformin and interstitial lung disease (ROR 0.84, 95% confidence interval [CI] 
0.79-0.90; IC -0.24, 95% CI -0.33 to -0.15). In the subset data analysis, 
metformin (ROR 0.62, 95%CI 0.43-0.89; IC -0.63, 95%CI -1.14 to -0.11), 
sulfonylureas (ROR 0.53, 95%CI 0.32-0.85; IC -0.85, 95%CI -1.53 to -0.17), and 
dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors (ROR 0.25, 95%CI 0.08-0.78; IC -1.66, 
95%CI -3.08 to -0.23) were inversely associated with hyperthyroidism. 
Additionally, metformin (ROR 0.43, 95%CI 0.33-0.57; IC -1.09, 95%CI -1.49 to 
-0.69), sulfonylureas (ROR 0.64, 95%CI 0.48-0.86; IC -0.59, 95%CI -1.00 to 
-0.17), and DPP-4 inhibitors (ROR 0.47, 95%CI 0.27-0.81; IC -0.99, 95%CI -1.76 
to -0.22) were inversely associated with interstitial lung disease. In the 
logistic regression analyses, DPP-4 inhibitors (adjusted ROR 0.32, 95% CI 
0.10-1.00) and metformin (adjusted ROR 0.46, 95% CI 0.34-0.62) were inversely 
associated with amiodarone-associated hyperthyroidism and interstitial lung 
disease, respectively. Conclusion: Metformin is a candidate drug to reduce the 
risk of amiodarone-induced hyperthyroidism and interstitial lung disease.

Â© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/ijms.39342
PMCID: PMC7053347
PMID: 32132864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.
