1. Cell Res. 2020 Apr;30(4):300-314. doi: 10.1038/s41422-020-0291-z. Epub 2020
Mar  4.

Targeting immunometabolism as an anti-inflammatory strategy.

PÃ¥lsson-McDermott EM(1), O'Neill LAJ(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Biochemistry and Immunology, Trinity Biomedical Science Institute, 
Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland. palssone@tcd.ie.
(2)School of Biochemistry and Immunology, Trinity Biomedical Science Institute, 
Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.

The growing field of immunometabolism has taught us how metabolic cellular 
reactions and processes not only provide a means to generate ATP and 
biosynthetic precursors, but are also a way of controlling immunity and 
inflammation. Metabolic reprogramming of immune cells is essential for both 
inflammatory as well as anti-inflammatory responses. Four anti-inflammatory 
therapies, DMF, Metformin, Methotrexate and Rapamycin all work by affecting 
metabolism and/or regulating or mimicking endogenous metabolites with 
anti-inflammatory effects. Evidence is emerging for the targeting of specific 
metabolic events as a strategy to limit inflammation in different contexts. Here 
we discuss these recent developments and speculate on the prospect of targeting 
immunometabolism in the effort to develop novel anti-inflammatory therapeutics. 
As accumulating evidence for roles of an intricate and elaborate network of 
metabolic processes, including lipid, amino acid and nucleotide metabolism 
provides key focal points for developing new therapies, we here turn our 
attention to glycolysis and the TCA cycle to provide examples of how metabolic 
intermediates and enzymes can provide potential novel therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.1038/s41422-020-0291-z
PMCID: PMC7118080
PMID: 32132672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.
