1. Eur J Pharmacol. 2020 May 15;875:173059. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.173059.
Epub  2020 Mar 1.

The protective effect of metformin on mitochondrial dysfunction and endoplasmic 
reticulum stress in diabetic mice brain.

Docrat TF(1), Nagiah S(1), Naicker N(1), Baijnath S(1), Singh S(1), Chuturgoon 
AA(2).

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Medical Biochemistry, School of Laboratory Medicine and Medical 
Sciences, College of Health Science, University of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.
(2)Discipline of Medical Biochemistry, School of Laboratory Medicine and Medical 
Sciences, College of Health Science, University of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. 
Electronic address: chutur@ukzn.ac.za.

Diabetes is a metabolic disorder associated with mitochondrial (mt) dysfunction 
and oxidative stress. The molecular mechanisms involved in diabetes-associated 
neurological complications remain elusive. This study aims to investigate the 
protective effect of metformin (MF) on regulatory networks and integrated stress 
responses in brain tissue of Streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice. 
STZ-induced diabetic mice were treated with MF (20 mg/kg BW), and whole brain 
tissue was harvested for further analysis. Protein carbonylation was measured as 
a marker of neuronal oxidative stress. Protein expression of mt chaperones, 
maintenance proteins, and regulators of the unfolded protein response (UPR) were 
measured by Western blot. Transcript levels of antioxidant enzyme GSTA4; mt 
biogenesis markers, ER stress regulators, and miR-132 and miR-148a were analysed 
using qPCR. The results showed that MF efficiently reduced protein carbonylation 
and oxidation. Mt function was improved by MF-treatment through upregulation of 
chaperone proteins (HSP60, HSP70 and LonP1). MF elicits the UPR to attenuate ER 
stress through a miR-132 repression mechanism. Additionally, MF was found to 
elevate deacetylases- Sirt1, Sirt3; and mt biogenesis marker PGC-1α through 
miR-148a repression. This is the first study to demonstrate the epigenetic 
regulation of mt maintenance by MF in diabetic C57BL/6 mouse whole brain tissue. 
We thus conclude that MF, beyond its anti-hyperglycaemic role, mediates 
neuroprotection through epigenomic and integrated stress responses in diabetic 
mice.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.173059
PMID: 32131023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that there are no conflicts of interest.
