1. Sex Med. 2020 Jun;8(2):168-177. doi: 10.1016/j.esxm.2020.01.006. Epub 2020 Mar
 5.

Effect of Icariside II and Metformin on Penile Erectile Function, Histological 
Structure, Mitochondrial Autophagy, Glucose-Lipid Metabolism, Angiotensin II and 
Sex Hormone in Type 2 Diabetic Rats With Erectile Dysfunction.

Zhang J(1), Li S(2), Zhang S(1), Wang Y(2), Jin S(2), Zhao C(3), Yang W(3), Liu 
Y(4), Kong G(5).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Geriatric Hospital, Department of Urology, Beijing, China.
(2)Beijing Tong Ren Hospital, Capital Medical University, Department of Urology, 
Beijing, China.
(3)Affiliated Hospital of Hebei University, Department of Urology, Baoding, 
Hebei, China.
(4)Beijing Tong Ren Hospital, Capital Medical University, Department of Urology, 
Beijing, China. Electronic address: doctorlyx@126.com.
(5)Beijing Lu He Hospital, Capital Medical University, Department of Urology, 
Beijing, China. Electronic address: summerharvest11@163.com.

INTRODUCTION: Type 2 diabetes mellitus erectile dysfunction (T2DMED) is one of 
the common complications of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Icariside II (ICA 
II), a flavonoid derived from Epimedium, has been shown to improve erectile 
function in T2DMED rats.
AIM: To investigate the effect of ICA II and metformin (MET) on penile erectile 
function, mitochondrial autophagy, glucose-lipid metabolism in rats with T2DMED.
METHODS: In the control and T2DMED groups, rats were administered normal saline. 
In the MET group, rats were administered MET for 0.2 g/kg/day. In the ICA II+MET 
group, rats were administered ICA II for 10 mg/kg/day and MET for 0.2 g/kg/day.
RESULTS: The number of mating rats, number of erectile rats, erection rate, 
erection frequency, intracorneal pressure, and intracorneal pressure/mean 
arterial pressure in the ICA II+MET group and control group were significantly 
higher than corresponding values in than T2DMED group. The absolute values of 
fasting plasma glucose, glycated haemoglobin in the ICA II+MET group, MET group, 
and control group were significantly lower than in the T2DMED group. The 
advanced glycation end product (AGE) values in the ICA II+MET group and the MET 
group were lower than in the T2DMED group. The receptors for the AGE values and 
angiotensin II values in the ICA II+MET group were lower than in the T2DMED and 
MET groups. The high-density lipoprotein values, testosterone values, nitric 
oxide synthase activity, and cyclic guanosine monophosphate content in the ICA 
II+MET and control groups were higher than in the T2DMED group. The low-density 
lipoprotein values, triglyceride values, estradiol values, and total cholesterol 
values in the ICA II+MET and control groups were lower than in the T2DMED group.
CONCLUSION: ICA II could increase erectile function and smooth muscle 
cell/collagen fibril proportions, decreased mitochondrial autophagy, and AGE 
concentrations and improve lipid metabolism, nitric oxide synthase activity, 
cyclic guanosine monophosphate content, testosterone, estradiol, and Ang II in 
rat with T2DMED. Zhang J, Li S, Zhang S, et al. Effect of Icariside II and 
Metformin on Penile Erectile Function, Histological Structure, Mitochondrial 
Autophagy, Glucose-Lipid Metabolism, Angiotensin II and Sex Hormone in Type 2 
Diabetic Rats With Erectile Dysfunction. J Sex Med 2020;8:168-177.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.esxm.2020.01.006
PMCID: PMC7261708
PMID: 32147433
