1. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2020 May;27(14):17043-17053. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-020-08255-9. Epub 2020 Mar 7.

Ultraviolet photolysis of metformin: mechanisms of environmental factors, 
identification of intermediates, and density functional theory calculations.

Lin W(1), Zhang X(1), Li P(1), Tan Y(1), Ren Y(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Environment and Energy, South China University of Technology, 
Higher Education Mega Center, Panyu District, Guangzhou, 510006, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)School of Environment and Energy, South China University of Technology, 
Higher Education Mega Center, Panyu District, Guangzhou, 510006, People's 
Republic of China. ceyren@scut.edu.cn.
(3)The Key Lab of Pollution Control and Ecosystem Restoration in Industry 
Clusters, Ministry of Education, Guangzhou, People's Republic of China. 
ceyren@scut.edu.cn.
(4)The Key Laboratory of Environmental Protection and Eco-Remediation of 
Guangdong Regular Higher Education Institutions, Guangzhou, People's Republic of 
China. ceyren@scut.edu.cn.

As a commonly used anti-diabetic drug, metformin (MEF) is frequently detected in 
different water bodies which pose a potential threat to human health and the 
ecological environment. In this study, oxidative degradation of MEF under 
ultraviolet (UV) light was studied, and its influencing factors, photolysis 
mechanism, and intermediates identification carried out as well. The results 
showed that the hydroxyl radical contributed 73% during the 6 h MEF photolysis 
process among the reactive oxygen species (ROS). In addition, triplet 
excited-state organic matter and singlet oxygen also played a role in the 
photolysis process. The reaction rates of hydroxyl radical and singlet oxygen 
with MEF are (6.45 ± 0.4) × 109 and (5.4 ± 0.7) × 106 L·(mol s)-1, respectively. 
By calculating the light screening effect of environmental factors, it is found 
that the presence of NO3- and Cl- had a greater excitation effect on ROS than 
the screening effect, and generally promoted the photolysis rates of MEF from 
90.3 to 193.5% and from 16.1 to 80.6% during the 6-h reaction process, 
respectively. For bicarbonate and fulvic acid, the light screening effects were 
dominant and inhibited photolysis rates by 10-52% and 13-71%, respectively. The 
results demonstrated that the photoreactivity of environmental factors in water 
is the cause of the different photodegradation rates of MEF. The oxidative 
degradation product of MEF under UV light was detected by UPLC/Q-TOF as 
methylbiguanide (MBG), 2,4-diamino-1,3,5-triazine (2,4-DAT), biguanide (BGN), 
1,1-dimethylguanidine (1,1-DiMBG), 4-amino-2-imino-1-methyl-1,2-dihydro-1, 
3,5-triazine (4,2,1-AIMT), and 2-amino-4-methylamino-1,3,5-triazine (2,4-AMT). 
The result which showed that the primary sites of ∙OH attacked is consistent 
with that of density functional theory calculation. Graphical abstract.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-020-08255-9
PMID: 32146661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
