1. Cureus. 2020 Jan 29;12(1):e6812. doi: 10.7759/cureus.6812.

Evaluation of the Safety and Efficacy of Teneligliptin at a Higher Dose in 
Indian Type 2 Diabetes Patients: A Retrospective Analysis.

Mitra A(1), Ray S(2).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, Ruby General Hospital, Kolkata, IND.
(2)Physiology, Jagannath Gupta Institute of Medical Science, Kolkata, IND.

Background and aim While diabetes mellitus (DM) is occupying the topmost global 
epidemic position, India is harboring a challenging number of type 2 DM patients 
in the world. This devastating picture of the health sector in India requires 
the availability of more cost-effective, context-specific, and safer drugs for 
DM management. This study aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 
teneligliptin in Indian patients with type 2 DM inadequately controlled with 
diet, exercise, and a maximal dose of metformin treatment. Materials and methods 
This was a retrospective, observational, and single-center study conducted at 
a diabetic clinic in India in type 2 DM patients who have been treated with 
teneligliptin 40 mg once daily as add-on therapy with diet, exercise, and the 
maximal tolerable dose of metformin for three months. The study was 
observational, where the data collection was through self-reporting and an 
observational study conducted over one year (September 2018 to August 2019). A 
total of 100 patients were enrolled in the study (male 69% and female 31%). 
Patients with available data for fasting plasma glucose (FPG), postprandial 
plasma glucose (2h PPG), glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), renal function parameters, 
such as urinary albumin to creatinine ratio (UACR), and electrocardiogram (ECG) 
at baseline and three months after treatment were enrolled in the study. Results 
There was a signiﬁcant reduction in fasting blood sugar (P=<0.001), postprandial 
blood sugar (P=<0.001), and HbA1c (P=<0.001) at the end of the three months 
treatment in comparison to the baseline level and in the primary outcomes of 
this study as compared to baseline. The teneligliptin treatment did not cause 
any significant reduction in body mass index (BMI) before and after treatment. 
When we compared the secondary outcomes, the indicator of renal function as 
expressed through the albumin-to-creatinine ratio (ACR; P=0.052), there was a 
borderline change in ACR from baseline to three months. The mean corrected QT 
interval at screening baseline was 429.7 ± 8.89 milliseconds while after three 
months, it was 429.1 ± 8.68 milliseconds, which was statistically insignificant. 
Conclusion The current results demonstrated a high level of efficacy as an 
add-on therapy of teneligliptin at a high dose with inadequately controlled type 
2 DM subjects in India. The study results also indicate the good tolerance of 
this drug with no critical adverse event in this study design.

Copyright © 2020, Mitra et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.6812
PMCID: PMC7047936
PMID: 32140368

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.
