1. Invest New Drugs. 2020 Oct;38(5):1454-1462. doi: 10.1007/s10637-020-00920-7. 
Epub 2020 Mar 7.

Phase I study of metformin in combination with carboplatin/paclitaxel 
chemotherapy in patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer.

Broekman KE(1), Hof MAJ(2), Touw DJ(2), Gietema JA(1), Nijman HW(3), Lefrandt 
JD(4), Reyners AKL(1), Jalving M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University Medical Center Groningen, 
University of Groningen, PO Box 30.001, 9700 RB, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmacology, University Medical Center 
Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Medical Center Groningen, 
University of Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, University Medical Center Groningen, 
University of Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(5)Department of Medical Oncology, University Medical Center Groningen, 
University of Groningen, PO Box 30.001, 9700 RB, Groningen, the Netherlands. 
m.jalving@umcg.nl.

Background Metformin use is associated with reduced cancer risk in 
epidemiological studies and has preclinical anti-cancer activity in ovarian 
cancer models. The primary objective of this phase I study was to determine the 
recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of metformin in combination with 
carboplatin/paclitaxel in patients with ovarian cancer. Secondary objectives 
were to describe safety and pharmacokinetics. Methods In this single-center 
trial the RP2D of metformin in combination with carboplatin area under the 
concentration-time curve (AUC) 6 and paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 every 3 weeks (q3w) in 
patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer was determined using a 3 + 3 
escalation rule at three fixed dose levels: 500 mg three times daily (tds), 
850 mg tds and 1000 mg tds. Metformin was commenced on day 3 of cycle 1 and 
continued until 3 weeks after the last chemotherapy administration. The RP2D was 
defined as the dose level at which 0 of 3 or ≤ 1 of 6 evaluable subjects 
experienced a metformin-related dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). Safety was 
assessed according to CTCAE v4.0. Plasma and serum samples for pharmacokinetic 
(PK) analyses were collected during treatment cycles 1 and 2. Results Fifteen 
patients with epithelial ovarian cancer and an indication for neo-adjuvant 
(n = 5) or palliative (n = 10) treatment were included. No DLTs were observed. 
Three patients discontinued study treatment during cycle 1 for other reasons 
than DLT. Six patients were treated at the RP2D of metformin 1000 mg tds. The 
most frequent low-grade toxicities were anemia, hypomagnesemia and diarrhea. 
Grade 3 adverse events (AEs) occurred in ten patients, most common were 
leucopenia (n = 4), thrombocytopenia (n = 3) and increased GGT (n = 3). There 
were no grade 4 AEs. Metformin increased the platinum (Pt) AUC (Δ22%, p = 0.013) 
and decreased the Pt clearance (Δ-28%, p = 0.013). Metformin plasma levels were 
all within the therapeutic range for diabetic patients (0.1-4 mg/L). Conclusion 
The RP2D of metformin in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel in advanced 
ovarian cancer is 1000 mg tds. This is higher than the RP2D reported for 
combination with targeted agents. A potential PK interaction of metformin with 
carboplatin was identified.

DOI: 10.1007/s10637-020-00920-7
PMCID: PMC7497683
PMID: 32146550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: K.E. Broekman, M.A.J. Hof, D.J. Touw, J.D. 
Lefrandt and A.K.L. Reyners have no conflicts of interest to declare. J.A. 
Gietema: research grants to the institution of Roche, AbbVie, Siemens. H.W. 
Nijman: Clinical studies: Aduro, Vicinivax, Merck, DCPrime, AIMM. Founder and 
stock owner of Vicinivax. M. Jalving: Advisory Boards: Merck, BMS, Novartis, 
Pierre Fabre, Tesaro, AstraZeneca. Speakers’ fees: Sanofi. Clinical studies: 
BMS, AbbVie, Merck, Cristal Therapeutics. All fees paid to institution.
