1. J Alzheimers Dis. 2020;74(4):1013-1028. doi: 10.3233/JAD-200049.

Drug Repositioning for Alzheimer's Disease: Finding Hidden Clues in Old Drugs.

Ihara M(1), Saito S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center, Japan.

Although more than 100 years have passed since Alois Alzheimer reported a case 
of Alzheimer's disease (AD), a definitive answer to the causes of cognitive 
impairment in the disease remains elusive. Despite significant enthusiasm and 
investment from the pharmaceutical industry, clinical trials of many 
disease-modifying drugs for AD have been largely unsuccessful. Drug 
repositioning (DR) or repurposing approaches are relatively inexpensive and more 
reliable compared to de novo drug development in AD. About 30% of clinical 
trials for AD in progress around the world use the DR method and hold potential 
in halting the current deadlock in treatment options. By using drugs approved 
for other indications, these clinical trials target dysregulated pathways in AD 
with different or a combination of modes of action, including anti-amyloid, 
cardiovascular, anti-tau, anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory, metabolic, 
neuroprotective, and neurotransmission-based approaches. For instance, 
anti-diabetic drugs, such as insulin, metformin, liraglutide, and dapagliflozin, 
and cardiovascular drugs, such as cilostazol, candesartan, telmisartan, 
prazosin, and dabigatran, could serendipitously provide previously unearthed 
benefits in AD. This is in line with recent thinking, which views AD as a 
complex multifactorial disorder, not dominated by one dominant biological 
factor, such as amyloid-Î², and likely a confluence of many pathobiological 
mechanisms, including vascular dysregulation. Such increasingly available 
knowledge of phenotyping may be used to design 'tailor-made' DR and relatively 
homogeneous AD subpopulations specifically targeted with existing drugs based on 
known modes of action. It is thus expected that DR approaches will create a 
major paradigm shift in AD research and development.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-200049
PMID: 32144994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
