1. Biochem Pharmacol. 2020 Jul;177:113894. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2020.113894. Epub 
2020 Mar 3.

Drug repurposing in cardiovascular diseases: Opportunity or hopeless dream?

Gelosa P(1), Castiglioni L(1), Camera M(2), Sironi L(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Milan, Milan, Italy.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Milan, Milan, Italy; 
Centro Cardiologico Monzino IRCCS, Milan, Italy.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Milan, Milan, Italy; 
Centro Cardiologico Monzino IRCCS, Milan, Italy. Electronic address: 
luigi.sironi@unimi.it.

Cardiovascular disease remains - despite the development of new drugs, devices, 
and therapeutic strategies - the leading cause of death and disability 
worldwide. There is therefore a great need to implement the pharmacological 
armamentarium, considering also the need to balance the therapeutic and the side 
effects. Furthermore, the best choice among the drug treatment options and 
reduction of side effects remain urgent problems for studies of cardiovascular 
disease. In this context, drug repurposing could be an innovative way and 
opportunity to extend and improve pharmacological tools. Indeed, applying 
well-established drugs and compounds to new indications, drug repurposing has 
already been proven efficient and safe in humans. Furthermore, this approach 
generates lower costs and needs shorter time for approval than the development 
of a de novo drug. In the current review, we discuss the main evidence for the 
repurposing in cardiovascular diseases of drugs approved and marketed for other 
pathologies by reviewing their mechanisms of action and the results reported in 
observational and then in randomized studies.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2020.113894
PMID: 32142728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
