1. Int J Clin Pharm. 2020 Apr;42(2):713-720. doi: 10.1007/s11096-020-01003-6.
Epub  2020 Mar 5.

Bullous pemphigoid associated with the use of dipeptidil peptidase-4 inhibitors: 
analysis from studies based on pharmacovigilance databases.

Molina-Guarneros JA(1), Sainz-Gil M(2)(3), Sanz-Fadrique R(2), García P(4), 
Rodríguez-Jiménez P(5), Navarro-García E(6), Martin LH(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, National Autonomous 
University of Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico. molina_ja2007@yahoo.com.mx.
(2)Centre for Drug Safety (CESME), Faculty of Medicine, Valladolid University, 
Valladolid, Spain.
(3)Centre for Pharmacovigilance of Castilla y León, Valladolid, Spain.
(4)Primary Healthcare Centre 'Covaresa', Valladolid, Spain.
(5)"La Princesa" Hospital, Madrid, Spain.
(6)University Hospital 'Río Hortega', Valladolid, Spain.

Background Bullous pemphigoid has been associated to dipeptidase-4 inhibitors. 
Objectives Addressing the potential Bullous pemphigoid-dipeptidase-4 inhibitors 
association based on pharmacovigilance data currently available in Spain in 
order to obtain a composite disproportionality estimator from all the data 
generated by the case-non case studies conducted to this date. Setting The 
Spanish Pharmacovigilance System for Human Use Drugs database. Method Case-non 
case study based on the Spanish Pharmacovigilance System for Human Use Drugs 
notifications submitted between 2007 and 2018 (n = 169,280), using the Medical 
Dictionary for Regulatory Activities term (Preferred Term) 'pemphigoid' for 
sitagliptin, vildagliptin, saxagliptin, linagliptin, and alogliptin (n = 1952). 
As negative control, we used acetaminophen, while furosemide was the positive 
control. A pooled reported odds ratio analysis in the French, Japanese, and 
Spanish national pharmacovigilance databases was performed. On The Spanish 
Pharmacovigilance System for Human Use Drugs, we conducted a bullous 
pemphigoid-metformin association analysis within the period 1982-2018. Main 
outcome measure Adverse reaction cases in pharmacovigilance databases and the 
disproportionality through the reporting odds ratio. Results Within The Spanish 
Pharmacovigilance System for Human Use Drugs, we found 45 cases of bullous 
pemphigoid in dipeptidase-4 inhibitors patients. Median age was 77 years (range 
72-82). The median latency period was 7 months (range 0.23-86). The Bullous 
pemphigoid-dipeptidase-4 inhibitors association was established with a reporting 
odd ratio = 70.0 (95% confidence intervals 49.1-10.1). In the combined analysis 
of the three aforementioned pharmacovigilance databases, the pooled reporting 
odd ratio was 81.0 (95% confidence intervals 69.5-94.4). Conclusion The 
composite estimator for the three national pharmacovigilance databases yields 
clear evidence of a Bullous pemphigoid-dipeptidase-4 inhibitors association, 
which was statistically significant for both the pharmacological class as a 
whole and each of the dipeptidase-4 inhibitors agents under investigation. 
Metformin's role in the incidence of bullous pemphigoid appeared casual rather 
than causal. No differences between Caucasian and Asian populations were noted.

DOI: 10.1007/s11096-020-01003-6
PMCID: PMC7192859
PMID: 32140915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: FEDRA is the Spanish Pharmacovigilance System of 
Human Medicines (SEFV-H) database, and is managed by the Spanish Medicines and 
Health Products Agency (AEMPS). The information comes from a variety of sources, 
and the probability that the suspected adverse effect is drug-related is not the 
same in all cases. The discussion and conclusions of this study are the authors’ 
responsability and do not represent the opinion of the SEFVH or the AEMPS.
