1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 Feb 25;10:63. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00063.
 eCollection 2020.

Gut Microbiome Profiles Are Associated With Type 2 Diabetes in Urban Africans.

Doumatey AP(1), Adeyemo A(1), Zhou J(1), Lei L(1), Adebamowo SN(2)(3), Adebamowo 
C(2)(3)(4), Rotimi CN(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Research on Genomics and Global Health, National Human Genome 
Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, United States.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health and Greenebaum Comprehensive 
Cancer Center, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United 
States.
(3)Center for Bioethics and Research, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(4)Institute of Human Virology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, United States.

Gut dysbiosis has been associated with several disease outcomes including 
diabetes in human populations. Currently, there are no studies of the gut 
microbiome composition in relation to type 2 diabetes (T2D) in Africans. Here, 
we describe the profile of the gut microbiome in non-diabetic adults (controls) 
and investigate the association between gut microbiota and T2D in urban West 
Africans. Gut microbiota composition was determined in 291 Nigerians (98 cases, 
193 controls) using fecal 16S V4 rRNA gene sequencing done on the Illumina MiSeq 
platform. Data analysis of operational taxonomic units (OTU) was conducted to 
describe microbiome composition and identify differences between T2D and 
controls. The most abundant phyla were Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and 
Bacteroidetes. Clostridiaceae, and Peptostreptococcaceaea were significantly 
lower in cases than controls (p < 0.001). Feature selection analysis identified 
a panel of 18 OTUs enriched in cases that included Desulfovibrio piger, 
Prevotella, Peptostreptococcus, and Eubacterium. A panel of 17 OTUs that was 
enriched in the controls included Collinsella, Ruminococcus lactaris, 
Anaerostipes, and Clostridium. OTUs with strain-level annotation showing the 
largest fold-change included Cellulosilyticum ruminicola (log2FC = -3.1; p = 4.2 
× 10-5), Clostridium paraputrificum (log2FC = -2.5; p = 0.005), and Clostridium 
butyricum (log2FC = -1.76; p = 0.01), all lower in cases. These findings are 
notable because supplementation with Clostridium butyricum and Desulfovibrio 
piger has been shown to improve hyperglycemia and reduce insulin resistance in 
murine models. This first investigation of gut microbiome and diabetes in urban 
Africans shows that T2D is associated with compositional changes in gut 
microbiota highlighting the possibility of developing strategies to improve 
glucose control by modifying bacterial composition in the gut.

Copyright © 2020 Doumatey, Adeyemo, Zhou, Lei, Adebamowo, Adebamowo and Rotimi.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00063
PMCID: PMC7052266
PMID: 32158702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
