1. Clin Transplant. 2020 Jun;34(6):e13851. doi: 10.1111/ctr.13851. Epub 2020 May
5.

Impact of metformin on malignancy in solid organ transplantation.

Bartlett F(1), January S(2), Pottebaum A(2), Horwedel T(3), Malone AF(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, 
South Carolina.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Barnes-Jewish Hospital, St. Louis, Missouri.
(3)Veloxis Pharmaceuticals, Cary, North Carolina.
(4)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Washington University School 
of Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri.

Malignancy after solid organ transplant is a common occurrence that is 
associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Literature in the general 
diabetic population has identified possible antineoplastic properties of 
metformin. This retrospective study aims to determine if metformin results in a 
malignancy risk reduction in a cohort of diabetic kidney, liver, and heart 
transplant recipients. The population included transplant recipients without use 
of metformin at any time point (DMO arm, n = 147) and those with use of 
metformin (DMM arm, n = 172); the two arms were matched based on organ type and 
transplant date prior to application of exclusion criteria. Recipients with 
prior malignancy, malignancy before diabetes diagnosis, and metformin duration 
<30 days were excluded. The primary endpoint of malignancy first occurrence 
post-transplant was not found to be statistically significant at 1, 5, 10, and 
15 years. In the subgroup of heart transplant recipients, there was a 
significant reduction in malignancy at 15 years post-transplant. Older age and 
Caucasian race were identified as significant risk factors for malignancy, while 
never smoker was a protective factor. Metformin use in this solid organ 
transplant cohort was not found to significantly reduce malignancy risk compared 
to use of other anti-diabetic agents.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ctr.13851
PMID: 32159875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
