1. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2020 May;146(5):1369-1375. doi: 
10.1007/s00432-020-03177-y. Epub 2020 Mar 10.

An observational study to justify and plan a future phase III randomized 
controlled trial of metformin in improving overall survival in patients with 
inoperable pancreatic cancer without liver metastases.

Broadhurst PJ(1), Hart AR(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich, NR4 7TJ, UK. 
pbroadhurst@doctors.org.uk.
(2)Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich, NR4 7TJ, UK.
(3)Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital NHS Trust, Norwich, NR4 7TJ, UK.

PURPOSE: Metformin has plausible direct and indirect anti-cancer properties 
against pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells. However, metformin may only be 
efficacious in patients with inoperable pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) 
without liver metastases. Absorption may be decreased by gastrointestinal 
symptoms and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). We aimed to justify and inform a 
future phase III trial of metformin versus placebo on survival in inoperable 
PDAC by documenting prevalence of patients meeting eligibility criteria, 
gastrointestinal symptoms and PPI use.
METHODS: Patient notes with PDAC were reviewed at a large teaching hospital over 
2Â years. Study variables were obtained from multiple sources of information.
RESULTS: 141 participants were identified (51.8% female), of which 37.6% were 
not prescribed metformin at diagnosis and had no radiological hepatic 
metastases. Characteristics were similar between non-metformin and metformin 
users. In eligible patients, 65.2% reported nausea and vomiting and 46.2% were 
prescribed PPIs.
CONCLUSION: Approximately, a third of all patients with inoperable PDAC are 
eligible for a future trial of metformin, allowing an estimate of the number of 
hospitals required for recruitment. Nausea and vomiting are common and should be 
managed effectively to prevent trial dropouts. PPI use is frequent and their 
influence on metformin's pharmacodynamic actions needs to be clarified.

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-020-03177-y
PMID: 32157435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
