1. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2020 Feb 21;11:70. doi: 10.3389/fendo.2020.00070.
 eCollection 2020.

Effect of Weight Loss Medications on Hepatic Steatosis and Steatohepatitis: A 
Systematic Review.

Pan CS(1), Stanley TL(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Metabolism Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA, United States.
(2)Pediatric Endocrine Division, Massachusetts General Hospital for Children and 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common comorbidity in individuals 
with obesity. Although multiple pharmacotherapeutics are in development, 
currently there are limited strategies specifically targeting NAFLD. This 
systematic review summarizes the existing literature on hepatic effects of 
medications used for weight loss. Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) agonists are 
the best-studied in this regard, and evidence consistently demonstrates 
reduction in liver fat content, sometimes accompanied by improvements in 
histological features of steatohepatitis and reductions in serum markers of 
hepatic injury such as alanine aminotransferase (ALT). It remains unclear 
whether these benefits are independent of the weight loss caused by these 
agents. Literature is limited regarding effects of orlistat, but a small number 
of reports suggest that orlistat reduces liver fat content and improves 
histologic features of NASH, benefits which may also be driven primarily by 
weight loss. A sizeable body of literature on hepatic effects of metformin 
yields mixed results, with a probability of modest benefit, but no consistent 
signal for strong benefit. There are insufficient data on hepatic effects of 
topiramate, phentermine, naltrexone, bupropion, and lorcaserin. Finally, a few 
studies to date suggest that sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors 
may reduce liver fat content and cause modest reductions in ALT, but further 
study is needed to better characterize these effects. Based on available data, 
GLP-1 agonists have the strongest evidence base demonstrating beneficial effects 
on NAFLD, but it is not clear if any weight loss medication has effects on NAFLD 
superior to those of nutritional modification and exercise alone.

Copyright Â© 2020 Pan and Stanley.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2020.00070
PMCID: PMC7046622
PMID: 32153507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
