1. J Adv Pharm Technol Res. 2020 Jan-Mar;11(1):44-52. doi: 
10.4103/japtr.JAPTR_98_19.

Antidiabetic effect of Drymaria cordata leaf against 
streptozotocin-nicotinamide-induced diabetic albino rats.

Patra S(1), Bhattacharya S(2), Bala A(3), Haldar PK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Jadavpur University, Kolkata, West 
Bengal, India.
(2)West Bengal Medical Services Corporation Ltd., Kolkata, West Bengal, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, National Institute of 
Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Hajipur, Bihar, India.

Drymaria cordata (Caryophyllaceae), commonly known as Abhijalo in 
Sikkimese-Tibetan, is a creeping herb grown in tropical and subtropical regions 
of the world. It is used by ethnic groups of Sikkim, North-East India, for the 
treatment of various diseases including diabetes. This study aimed to 
investigate the antidiabetic effect of methanol extract from D. cordata leaf 
(DCME) in streptozotocin (STZ) and nicotinamide (NA)-induced type 2 diabetes in 
rats. Diabetic Wistar albino rats were treated with DCME at 200 mg/kg and 400 
mg/kg orally for 28 days. Metformin (150 mg/kg b.w.) was used as a reference 
drug. Fasting blood glucose (FBG) level; serum biochemical parameters; and 
liver, kidney, and antioxidant parameters were estimated, and pancreatic 
histopathology was performed after 28 days of treatment. Administration of DCME 
to STZ-NA-induced diabetic rats at 200 mg/kg and 400 mg/kg orally for 28 days 
exhibited statistically significant (P < 0.05) and dose-dependent reduction of 
FBG, glycosylated hemoglobin, serum lipid, and hepatorenal antioxidative 
parameters in DCME-treated groups when compared to those of diabetic controls. 
Histopathological studies of pancreas in DCME-treated rats showed improvement in 
β-cell density compared to diabetic group. The results demonstrate the 
significant antidiabetic potential of D. cordata leaf in albino rats plausibly 
by reducing oxidative stress and serum lipids levels, justifying the folkloric 
use of this plant in the treatment of diabetes.

Copyright: © 2020 Journal of Advanced Pharmaceutical Technology & Research.

DOI: 10.4103/japtr.JAPTR_98_19
PMCID: PMC7034175
PMID: 32154158

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.
