1. Can J Physiol Pharmacol. 2020 Jul;98(7):466-472. doi: 10.1139/cjpp-2019-0548. 
Epub 2020 Mar 11.

Astragaloside IV relieves gestational diabetes mellitus in genetic mice through 
reducing hepatic gluconeogenesis.

Zhang R(1), Xing B(1), Zhao J(2), Zhang X(2), Zhou L(1), Yang S(1), Wang Y(1), 
Yang F(1).

Author information:
(1)Cangzhou Central Hospital, No. 16 Xinhua West Road, Cangzhou 061000, Hebei, 
China.
(2)Cangzhou Hospital of Integrated TCM-WMÂ·HEBEI, No. 31 Huanghe Road, Cangzhou 
061000, Hebei, China.

The glucose intolerance developed during pregnancy is called gestational 
diabetes mellitus (GDM). GDM has become a severe risk for the health of both 
mother and baby. Astragaloside IV (AS-IV) is the dominant active component in 
Astragalus membranaceus and has been reported to have anti-inflammation and 
immune-regulation function. We aimed to demonstrate the function of AS-IV in the 
therapy of GDM and the molecular mechanism in this process. C57BL/KsJ-Lepdb/+ 
female mice were used as the GDM model. The mRNA levels of relative genes in 
this research were detected by quantitative real-time PCR. The protein levels of 
relative genes were analyzed by Western blot. Serum lipid level was measured 
with an ILab Chemistry Analyzer 300 PLUS. Glucose, insulin, and lipid profile 
levels in the GDM mice model were decreased by AS-IV treatment. AS-IV 
downregulated the expression of inflammatory genes and upregulated the 
expressions of anti-oxidant genes in the GDM mice model. AS-IV treatment reduced 
cAMP accumulation in liver and reduced hepatic gluconeogenesis in GDM mice. This 
study demonstrated that AS-IV treatment has an effective therapeutic function of 
GDM in a mice model through the regulation of cAMP accumulation and hepatic 
gluconeogenesis.

DOI: 10.1139/cjpp-2019-0548
PMID: 32160476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
