1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Jul 1;154:878-887. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.03.087. Epub 2020 Mar 12.

Studies on the physicochemical properties, gelling behavior and drug release 
performance of agar/κ-carrageenan mixed hydrogels.

Zhao J(1), Sun C(1), Li H(1), Dong X(1), Zhang X(2).

Author information:
(1)College of chemistry and chemical engineering, Qingdao University, Qingdao 
266071, China.
(2)College of chemistry and chemical engineering, Qingdao University, Qingdao 
266071, China. Electronic address: zhangxdqd@hotmail.com.

A series of agar/κ-carrageenan mixed hydrogels with different mass ratios were 
prepared, and their physicochemical properties, gelling behavior and drug 
release performance were determined and analyzed. The results showed that the 
gel strength, the gelling temperature and the gel melting temperature decreased 
with the increase of κ-carrageenan, while the apparent viscosities increased. 
Optical rotation and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) indicated that 
there did exist intermolecular interactions between agar and κ-carrageenan, and 
the detailed gelling mechanism of the mixed hydrogels was proposed, which was 
different from that of the previous research. Besides, agar/κ-carrageenan mixed 
hydrogels were used as carriers for the delivery of metformin hydrochloride 
(MET). The results showed that the drug loading efficiency and the sustained 
release capacity of agar hydrogels could be enhanced by the addition of 
κ-carrageenan, and the release profile was mainly dominated by the electrostatic 
interaction between the MET and the polysaccharides. These results indicated 
that κ-carrageenan had the potential to improve the physicochemical properties 
and drug release performance of agar hydrogel.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.03.087
PMID: 32173428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
