1. J Reprod Infertil. 2020 Jan-Mar;21(1):34-41.

Obesity and Infertility: A Metabolic Assessment Strategy to Improve Pregnancy 
Rate.

Bond RT(1), Nachef A(2), Adam C(1), Couturier M(2), Kadoch IJ(2), Lapensée L(2), 
Bleau G(2), Godbout A(1)(1).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology Division, Department of Medicine, Centre de Recherche du Centre 
Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal (CRCHUM), Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Clinique de Procréation Assistée du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de 
Montréal (CHUM), Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: The metabolic global approach is a multidisciplinary intervention 
for obese women before undergoing assisted reproductive techniques, with the 
goal of improving fertility and decreasing adverse pregnancy outcomes. The 
objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of the metabolic global 
approach on pregnancy rate.
METHODS: This retrospective cohort study included 127 women and was conducted at 
the Centre hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal fertility center. Eligibility 
included BMI at initial consultation of ≥30 kg/m 2. Fertility treatments were 
considered when a weight loss of minimum 5% and normal metabolic indices were 
achieved. The p<0.05 was considered statistically significant.
RESULTS: Median baseline and last clinical assessment BMIs were 38.2 kg/m 2 and 
35.8 kg/m 2 respectively (p<0.001), representing a median weight loss of 5.1%. 
At baseline, at least one metabolic parameter was abnormal in 66% of women. 
Total pregnancy rate was 53%. The majority of women (63%) who achieved pregnancy 
did so with weight loss and metabolic stabilization alone (11%) or combined with 
metformin (36%) and/or oral ovulation drugs (16%). Normal vitamin D (p<0.001) 
and triglyceride levels (p<0.05) as well as lower BMI after weight loss (p<0.05) 
were associated with an increased relative risk of pregnancy.
CONCLUSION: Replete vitamin D status, weight loss of 5% and lower BMI as well as 
normal triglyceride level are significant and independent predictors of 
pregnancy in obese women presenting to our fertility center. The metabolic 
global approach is an effective program to detect metabolic abnormalities and 
improve obese women's pregnancy rate.

Copyright© 2020, Avicenna Research Institute.

PMCID: PMC7048694
PMID: 32175263

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest There is no conflict of 
interest that could be perceived as prejudicing the impartiality of the research 
reported.
