1. J Clin Med. 2020 Mar 13;9(3):783. doi: 10.3390/jcm9030783.

Medication Prescribing Quality in Australian Primary Care Patients with Chronic 
Kidney Disease.

Bezabhe WM(1), Kitsos A(1), Saunder T(1), Peterson GM(1), Bereznicki LR(1), 
Wimmer BC(1), Jose M(1), Radford J(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, University of Tasmania, Private Bage 26, 
Hobart, Tasmania 7001, Australia.

Background: Australian patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) are routinely 
managed in general practices with multiple medications. However, no nationally 
representative study has evaluated the quality of prescribing in these patients. 
The objective of this study was to examine the quality of prescribing in 
patients with CKD using nationally representative primary care data obtained 
from the NPS MedicineWise's dataset, MedicineInsight. Methods: A cross-sectional 
analysis of general practice data for patients aged 18 years or older with CKD 
was performed from 1 February 2016 to 1 June 2016. The study examined the 
proportion of patients with CKD who met a set of 16 published indicators in two 
categories: (1) potentially appropriate prescribing of antihypertensives, 
renin-angiotensin system (RAS) inhibitors, phosphate binders, and statins; and 
(2) potentially inappropriate prescribing of nephrotoxic medications, such as 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), at least two RAS inhibitors, 
triple therapy (an NSAID, a RAS inhibitor and a diuretic), high-dose digoxin, 
and metformin. The proportion of patients meeting each quality indicator was 
stratified using clinical and demographic characteristics. Results: A total of 
44,259 patients (24,165 (54.6%) female; 25,562 (57.8%) estimated glomerular 
filtration (eGFR) 45-59 mL/1.73 m2) with CKD stages 3-5 were included. Nearly 
one-third of patients had diabetes and were more likely to have their blood 
pressure and albumin-to-creatinine ratio monitored than those without diabetes. 
Potentially appropriate prescribing of antihypertensives was achieved in 79.9% 
of hypertensive patients with CKD stages 4-5. The prescribing indicators for RAS 
inhibitors in patients with microalbuminuria and diabetes and in patients with 
macroalbuminuria were achieved in 69.9% and 62.3% of patients, respectively. 
Only 40.8% of patients with CKD and aged between 50 and 65 years were prescribed 
statin therapy. The prescribing of a RAS inhibitor plus a diuretic was less 
commonly achieved, with the indicator met in 20.6% for patients with 
microalbuminuria and diabetes and 20.4% for patients with macroalbuminuria. 
Potentially inappropriate prescribing of NSAIDs, metformin, and at least two RAS 
inhibitors were apparent in 14.3%, 14.1%, and 7.6%, respectively. Potentially 
inappropriate prescribing tended to be more likely in patients aged ≥65 years, 
living in regional or remote areas, or with socio-economic indexes for areas 
(SEIFA) score ≤ 3. Conclusions: We identified areas for possible improvement in 
the prescribing of RAS inhibitors and statins, as well as deprescribing of 
NSAIDs and metformin in Australian general practice patients with CKD.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm9030783
PMCID: PMC7141290
PMID: 32183127

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
