1. J Intern Med. 2020 Jul;288(1):23-37. doi: 10.1111/joim.13042. Epub 2020 Mar
18.

Top 10 candidate aortic disease trials.

Dalman RL(1), Wanhainen A(2), Mani K(2), Modarai B(3).

Author information:
(1)From the, Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Stanford 
Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Surgical Sciences, Vascular Surgery, Uppsala University, 
Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)Academic Department of Vascular Surgery, St Thomas' Hospital, King's Health 
Partners, London, UK.

Aortic pathologies such as aneurysm, dissection and trauma are relatively common 
and potentially fatal diseases. Over the past two decades, we have experienced 
unprecedented technical and medical developments in the field. Despite this, 
there is a great need, and great opportunities, to further explore the area. In 
this review, we have identified important areas that need to be further studied 
and selected priority aortic disease trials. There is a pressing need to update 
the AAA natural history and the role for endovascular AAA repair as well as to 
define biomarkers and genetic risk factors as well as influence of gender for 
development and progression of aortic disease. A key limitation of contemporary 
treatment strategies of AAA is the lack of therapy directed at small AAA, to 
prevent AAA expansion and need for surgical repair, as well as to reduce the 
risk for aortic rupture. Currently, the most promising potential drug candidate 
to slow AAA growth is metformin, and RCTs to verify or reject this hypothesis 
are warranted. In addition, the role of endovascular treatment for ascending 
pathologies and for uncomplicated type B aortic dissection needs to be 
clarified.

Â© 2020 The Association for the Publication of the Journal of Internal Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/joim.13042
PMID: 32187752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
