1. Oncol Rep. 2020 Jun;43(6):1915-1927. doi: 10.3892/or.2020.7545. Epub 2020 Mar 
16.

Potential therapies for residual hepatoblastoma following incomplete ablation 
treatment in a nude mouse subcutaneous xenograft model based on lncRNA and mRNA 
expression profiles.

Wang XD(#)(1), Peng JB(#)(1), Zhou CY(1), Que Q(1), Li HY(1), He Y(1), Yang 
H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Ultrasonics, First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi 
Medical University, Nanning, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 530021, P.R. 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

Tumor recurrence following radiofrequency ablation (RFA) treatment in liver 
cancer is an important factor affecting patient prognosis. Furthermore, the 
biological role of long non‑coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in residual hepatoblastoma 
(HB) tissues after RFA remains largely unknown. By using microarray technology, 
this study investigated the expression of lncRNAs and mRNAs among four pairs of 
HB tissues (incomplete ablation treatment and no treatment) in a nude mouse 
subcutaneous xenograft model. Subsequently, bioinformatics analysis was used to 
understand the functions and pathways of the identified mRNAs. Finally, a 
connectivity map (CMap) analysis was conducted to identify potential therapeutic 
strategies for residual HB tissues. Compared with the untreated nude mouse 
subcutaneous xenograft model, in the experimental group, a significant 
difference in the expression of 740 lncRNAs and 663 mRNAs was detected. 
Subsequently, bioinformatics analysis revealed that the differentially expressed 
mRNAs were significantly enriched in pathways associated with antigen 
processing, the presentation of endogenous antigens, the regulation of cellular 
metabolic processes, MAPK signaling and cell cycle regulation. Additionally, six 
compounds (valproic acid, metformin, tanespimycin, wortmannin, fulvestrant and 
MK‑886) were identified by CMap analysis as potential therapeutic agents for the 
treatment of residual HB tissues. These findings provide a novel insight into 
the pathogenesis of residual HB and potential therapeutic strategies for 
aggressive tumor recurrence following RFA treatment in patients with HB.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2020.7545
PMCID: PMC7160554
PMID: 32186781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
