1. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2020;1248:431-453. doi: 10.1007/978-981-15-3266-5_18.

Checkpoints Under Traffic Control: From and to Organelles.

Deng S(1), Zhou X(2), Xu J(3).

Author information:
(1)Renji Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 
China. 19960528@sjtu.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Neurology, Shanghai General Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 200080, People's Republic of China.
(3)Institutes of Biomedical Sciences, Zhongshan-Xuhui Hospital, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, 200032, China.

Immune checkpoints are variegated stimulatory and inhibitory signals that are 
fundamental in immune homeostasis. The regulative molecules for immune 
checkpoints include programmed cell death protein 1 (PD1), programmed 
death-ligand 1 or 2 (PD-L1 or PD-L2), cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 
4 (CTLA-4), and so on. While the immune checkpoint molecules have gained soaring 
attention in recent years, the trafficking of them has been rarely studied. 
Since all of the discovered immune checkpoint molecules are transmembrane domain 
(TMD) proteins, they share similar pathophysiological characteristics which make 
studies about their trafficking and associated disorders resembled. PD-L1 is one 
of the most classic immune checkpoint molecules, and anti-PD1 monoantibodies 
have shown promising immunotherapeutic effects. PD-L1 trafficking has been 
particularly studied, the key regulators of which include metformin, 
chemokine-like factor-like MARVEL transmembrane domain-containing family member 
(CMTM), Huntingtin-interacting protein 1-related (HIP1R), exosomes, ALIX, 
polyI:C, and various post-translational modifications. Here, we focus on the 
checkpoints under traffic control, counting PD-L1, CTLA-4, lymphocyte-activation 
gene 3 (LAG-3), killer immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs), CD70, CD94, and 
attempt to shed light on the potentials of drug targets based on these findings 
and look forward to further studies in combinatorial therapeutic regimens in the 
meantime.

DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-3266-5_18
PMID: 32185721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
