1. J Biol Chem. 2020 May 1;295(18):5836-5849. doi: 10.1074/jbc.RA119.010244. Epub
 2020 Mar 17.

Glucose availability but not changes in pancreatic hormones sensitizes hepatic 
AMPK activity during nutritional transition in rodents.

Huet C(1), Boudaba N(1), Guigas B(2), Viollet B(1), Foretz M(3).

Author information:
(1)Université de Paris, Institut Cochin, CNRS, INSERM, F-75014 Paris, France.
(2)Department of Parasitology, Leiden University Medical Center, 2333 ZA Leiden, 
Netherlands.
(3)Université de Paris, Institut Cochin, CNRS, INSERM, F-75014 Paris, France. 
Electronic address: marc.foretz@inserm.fr.

The cellular energy sensor AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a metabolic 
regulator that mediates adaptation to nutritional variations to maintain a 
proper energy balance in cells. We show here that suckling-weaning and 
fasting-refeeding transitions in rodents are associated with changes in AMPK 
activation and the cellular energy state in the liver. These nutritional 
transitions were characterized by a metabolic switch from lipid to glucose 
utilization, orchestrated by modifications in glucose levels and the 
glucagon/insulin ratio in the bloodstream. We therefore investigated the 
respective roles of glucose and pancreatic hormones on AMPK activation in mouse 
primary hepatocytes. We found that glucose starvation transiently activates 
AMPK, whereas changes in glucagon and insulin levels had no impact on AMPK. 
Challenge of hepatocytes with metformin-induced metabolic stress strengthened 
both AMPK activation and cellular energy depletion under limited-glucose 
conditions, whereas neither glucagon nor insulin altered AMPK activation. 
Although both insulin and glucagon induced AMPKα phosphorylation at its 
Ser485/491 residue, they did not affect its activity. Finally, the decrease in 
cellular ATP levels in response to an energy stress was additionally exacerbated 
under fasting conditions and by AMPK deficiency in hepatocytes, revealing 
metabolic inflexibility and emphasizing the importance of AMPK for maintaining 
hepatic energy charge. Our results suggest that nutritional changes (i.e. 
glucose availability), rather than the related hormonal changes (i.e. the 
glucagon/insulin ratio), sensitize AMPK activation to the energetic stress 
induced by the dietary transition during fasting. This effect is critical for 
preserving the cellular energy state in the liver.

© 2020 Huet et al.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.RA119.010244
PMCID: PMC7196663
PMID: 32184359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest with the contents of this article
