1. Cancers (Basel). 2020 Mar 13;12(3):668. doi: 10.3390/cancers12030668.

Metformin as an Adjuvant to Photodynamic Therapy in Resistant Basal Cell 
Carcinoma Cells.

Mascaraque M(1)(2), Delgado-Wicke P(1)(2), Nuevo-Tapioles C(3), Gracia-Cazaña 
T(4), Abarca-Lachen E(5), González S(6), Cuezva JM(3), Gilaberte Y(7), Juarranz 
Á(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biología, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 28049 Madrid, 
Spain.
(2)Instituto Ramón y Cajal de Investigaciones Sanitarias, IRYCIS, 28034 Madrid, 
Spain.
(3)Centro de Biología Molecular-Severo Ochoa (CBMSO/CSIC) and Centro de 
Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Raras (CIBERER-ISCIII), 
Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 28049 Madrid, Spain.
(4)Departmento de Dermatología, Hospital Barbastro, 22300 Huesca, Spain.
(5)Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad San Jorge, 50830 Villanueva de 
Gállego, Spain.
(6)Departmento de Medicina y Especialidades Médicas, Universidad de Alcalá, 
28801 Madrid, Spain.
(7)Servicio de Dermatología, Hospital Miguel Servet, 50009 Zaragoza, Spain.

Photodynamic Therapy (PDT) with methyl-aminolevulinate (MAL-PDT) is being used 
for the treatment of Basal Cell Carcinoma (BCC), although resistant cells may 
appear. Normal differentiated cells depend primarily on mitochondrial oxidative 
phosphorylation (OXPHOS) to generate energy, but cancer cells switch this 
metabolism to aerobic glycolysis (Warburg effect), influencing the response to 
therapies. We have analyzed the expression of metabolic markers 
(β-F1-ATPase/GAPDH (glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase) ratio, pyruvate 
kinase M2 (PKM2), oxygen consume ratio, and lactate extracellular production) in 
the resistance to PDT of mouse BCC cell lines (named ASZ and CSZ, heterozygous 
for ptch1). We have also evaluated the ability of metformin (Metf), an 
antidiabetic type II compound that acts through inhibition of the AMP-activated 
protein kinase (AMPK)/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway to sensitize 
resistant cells to PDT. The results obtained indicated that resistant cells 
showed an aerobic glycolysis metabolism. The treatment with Metf induced arrest 
in the G0/G1 phase and a reduction in the lactate extracellular production in 
all cell lines. The addition of Metf to MAL-PDT improved the cytotoxic effect on 
parental and resistant cells, which was not dependent on the PS protoporphyrin 
IX (PpIX) production. After Metf + MAL-PDT treatment, activation of pAMPK was 
detected, suppressing the mTOR pathway in most of the cells. Enhanced 
PDT-response with Metf was also observed in ASZ tumors. In conclusion, Metf 
increased the response to MAL-PDT in murine BCC cells resistant to PDT with 
aerobic glycolysis.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers12030668
PMCID: PMC7139992
PMID: 32183017

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.
