1. Spectrochim Acta A Mol Biomol Spectrosc. 2020 Jun 15;234:118254. doi: 
10.1016/j.saa.2020.118254. Epub 2020 Mar 12.

Simultaneous ultra-trace quantitative colorimetric determination of antidiabetic 
drugs based on gold nanoparticles aggregation using multivariate calibration and 
neural network methods.

Moradi M(1), Sohrabi MR(2), Mortazavinik S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, North Tehran Branch, Islamic Azad University, 
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Chemistry, North Tehran Branch, Islamic Azad University, 
Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: sohrabi.m46@yahoo.com.

In this study, a simple and rapid method was investigated for the simultaneous 
ultra-trace colorimetric determination of Metformin (MET) and Sitagliptin (STG) 
based on the aggregation of gold nanoparticles (AuNPs). The Morphology and size 
distribution of synthesized AuNPs before and after adding drug (Zipmet) were 
monitored using transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and dynamic light 
scattering (DLS), respectively. By adding a drug, the absorption peak was 
shifted from 520 to 650 nm. The colorimetric method along with partial least 
squares (PLS) as a multivariate calibration method, as well as neural network 
time series were applied to estimate MET and STG simultaneously. The percentage 
of the mean recovery and root mean square error (RMSE) of the test set of 
mixtures related to the MET and STG were obtained 99.96, 1.1301 and 99.77, 
1.0106, respectively. On the other hand, the regression coefficient (R2) of the 
training, validation, and test sets corresponding to the artificial neural 
network (ANN) were close to one for both components. Eventually, the proposed 
method was compared with a reference technique named high-performance liquid 
chromatography (HPLC) by analysis of variance (ANOVA) test and there was no 
significant difference between them.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.saa.2020.118254
PMID: 32199312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.
