1. Clin Pharmacol Drug Dev. 2021 Jan;10(1):68-77. doi: 10.1002/cpdd.790. Epub
2020  Mar 19.

Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Ursodeoxycholic Acid in an Overweight 
Population With Abnormal Liver Function.

Yoon S(1), Lee H(2)(3), Ji SC(2)(3), Yoon SH(2)(3), Cho JY(2)(3), Chung 
JY(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trials Center, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Seoul National 
University Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is a secondary bile acid that is used to treat 
primary biliary cholangitis. Although UDCA has a hepatoprotective effect in some 
diseases, its benefit in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) remains 
controversial. We aimed to evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK) and 
pharmacodynamics (PD) of UDCA in overweight subjects with elevated liver enzymes 
after multiple administrations of UDCA and compare these changes with vitamin E 
treatment. Overweight subjects (body mass index, 25-30 kg/m2 ) with elevated 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level (40-200 IU/L) were enrolled. Subjects 
received one of the following three 8-week treatments: UDCA 300 mg twice daily 
UDCA 300 mg twice daily for 4 weeks followed by UDCA 300 mg twice daily and 
metformin 500 mg twice daily for 4 weeks, and vitamin E 400 IU twice daily. PK 
and PD (liver function, lipid profiles, insulin sensitivity, and miR-122) 
analyses were performed. Thirty subjects were enrolled; 1 subject withdrew his 
consent during the study. The PK characteristics were similar to those of 
healthy volunteers. The ALT and miR-122 levels decreased in the UDCA groups, 
whereas the ALT and aspartate aminotransferase levels decreased in the vitamin E 
group. The lipid profiles and insulin sensitivity did not show significant 
changes among the groups. There was no serious adverse event, and the safety 
profiles were similar among the treatment groups. The liver enzyme and miR-122 
levels were decreased by UDCA. Considering UDCA and vitamin E have a 
hepatoprotective effect and different mechanisms of action, combination therapy 
could be an option for NAFLD.

© 2020, The American College of Clinical Pharmacology.

DOI: 10.1002/cpdd.790
PMID: 32191400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
