1. Cell Death Discov. 2020 Mar 4;6:11. doi: 10.1038/s41420-020-0245-8.
eCollection  2020.

Metformin inhibits IL-1β secretion via impairment of NLRP3 inflammasome in 
keratinocytes: implications for preventing the development of psoriasis.

Tsuji G(1)(2), Hashimoto-Hachiya A(2), Yen VH(2), Takemura M(2), Yumine A(1), 
Furue K(2), Furue M(1)(2)(3), Nakahara T(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)1Research and Clinical Center for Yusho and Dioxin, Kyushu University, 
Maidashi 3-1-1, Higashiku, Fukuoka, 812-8582 Japan.
(2)2Department of Dermatology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu 
University, Maidashi 3-1-1, Higashiku, Fukuoka, 812-8582 Japan.
(3)3Division of Skin Surface Sensing, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 
Kyushu University, Maidashi 3-1-1, Higashiku, Fukuoka, 812-8582 Japan.

Psoriasis is a systemic inflammatory disease significantly associated with 
comorbidities including type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Metformin is utilized 
as a first-line agent for treating T2DM. Although metformin reportedly inhibits 
mature IL-1β secretion via NLRP3 inflammasome in macrophages of T2DM patients, 
it remains unclear whether it affects skin inflammation in psoriasis. To test 
this, we analysed normal human epidermal keratinocytes (NHEKs), a major skin 
component, stimulated with the key mediators of psoriasis development, TNF-α and 
IL-17A. This stimulation induced the upregulation of pro-IL-1β mRNA and protein 
levels, and subsequently mature IL-1β secretion, which was inhibited by 
metformin treatment. To further reveal the mechanism involved, we examined how 
metformin treatment affected NLRP3 inflammasome activated by TNF-α and IL-17A 
stimulation. We found that this treatment downregulated caspase-1 expression, a 
key mediator of NLRP3 inflammasome. Furthermore, inhibitors of AMPK and SIRT1 
abrogated the downregulation of caspase-1 induced by metformin treatment, 
indicating that AMPK and SIRT1 are essential for the inhibitory effect on NLRP3 
inflammasome in NHEKs. As IL-1β stimulation induced upregulation of IL-36γ, 
CXCL1, CXCL2, CCL20, S100A7, S100A8 and S100A9 mRNA and protein levels in NHEKs, 
we examined whether metformin treatment affects such gene expression. Metformin 
treatment inhibited upregulation of IL-36γ, CXCL1, CXCL2, CCL20, S100A7, S100A8 
and S100A9 mRNA and protein levels induced by TNF-α and IL-17A stimulation. 
Finally, we examined whether metformin administration affected psoriasis 
development in an imiquimod-induced mouse psoriasis model. Oral metformin 
treatment significantly decreased ear thickness, epidermal hyperplasia and 
inflammatory cell infiltration. A cytokine profile in the epidermis under 
metformin treatment showed that IL-1β, Cxcl1, Cxcl2, S100a7, S100a8 and S100A9 
mRNA levels were downregulated compared with control levels. These results 
indicate that metformin administration prevented psoriasis development in vivo. 
Collectively, our findings suggest that metformin-mediated anti-psoriatic 
effects on the skin have the potential for treating psoriasis in T2DM patients.

© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1038/s41420-020-0245-8
PMCID: PMC7055596
PMID: 32194991

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.
