1. Rev Esp Patol. 2020 Apr-Jun;53(2):88-99. doi: 10.1016/j.patol.2019.08.001.
Epub  2019 Nov 22.

[An integral view of cancer (III). Evaluation of new biomarkers and treatment 
strategies].

[Article in Spanish]

Noguera R(1), Burgos-Panadero R(1), Lucantoni F(1), de la Cruz-Merino L(2), 
Álvaro Naranjo T(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Patología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad of Valencia / 
Instituto de Investigaciones Sanitarias INCLIVA, Valencia, España; CIBERONC, 
Madrid, España.
(2)Departamento de Oncología, Hospital Universitario Virgen Macarena, Sevilla, 
España.
(3)CIBERONC, Madrid, España; Servicio de Anatomía Patológica, Hospital Verge de 
la Cinta, Tortosa, Tarragona, España. Electronic address: 
talvaro.ebre.ics@gencat.cat.

We propose a comprehensive approach to oncological disease, based on a systemic 
consideration of biology, health and disease. Our two previous review articles 
focused on tumour microenvironment and the discovery of new biomarkers; here we 
discuss the practical application of these principles to pathology, through the 
identification, evaluation and quantitative analysis of new prognostic and 
predictive factors (Immunoscore, TIME). We also consider the clinical use of 
promising, better tolerated treatments, such as immunotherapy. The integrative 
pathologist now has access to the latest improved oncology stratification tools 
designed to identify effective treatment strategies, based on the natural 
evolution of clinical and scientific knowledge that transcend the gene-centric 
theory of cancer.

Copyright © 2019 Sociedad Española de Anatomía Patológica. Publicado por 
Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.patol.2019.08.001
PMID: 32199599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
