1. J Anal Methods Chem. 2020 Mar 1;2020:3646712. doi: 10.1155/2020/3646712. 
eCollection 2020.

A Novel Method for Extraction of Galegine by Molecularly Imprinted Polymer (MIP) 
Technique Reinforced with Graphene Oxide and Its Evaluation Using Polarography.

Azimi M(1), Ahmadi Golsefidi M(1), Varasteh Moradi A(1), Ebadii M(1), Zafar 
Mehrabian R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Sciences, Gorgan Branch, Islamic Azad 
University, Gorgan, Iran.

Erratum in
    J Anal Methods Chem. 2021 Feb 10;2021:3548023.

Galega officinalis products have been used for the control of diabetes (type 2) 
across the world. Experimental and clinical evaluations of galegine substance 
produced by a medicinal plant (Galega officinalis) provided the pharmacological 
and chemical basis for metformin discovery which was confirmed for diabetes 
therapy. In this paper, the molecularly imprinted polymer (MIP) was synthesized 
for galegine, using galegine as a template molecule, methacrylic acid (MAA) as a 
functional monomer, ethylene glycol dimethacrylate (EGDMA) as a cross-linker, 
azobisisobutyronitrile (AIBN) as a reaction initiator, and acetonitrile as a 
solvent. The assisted functional groups, morphology, topographic image of 
surface, and crystalline structure of synthesized MIP were characterized by 
FT-IR spectroscopy, field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM), atomic 
force microscopy (AFM) images, and XRD diffraction pattern techniques, 
respectively. Also, the performance of the mentioned electrode was quantified 
and qualified by the differential pulse voltammetry technique (DPV). The 
galegine amount was determined with the polarographic technique. In this 
research, the galegine extraction conditions were optimized and graphene 
nanoparticles were used to increase the adsorption. In addition, different 
parameters affecting extraction were investigated such as MIP adsorbent amount, 
pH of solution, effect of the surfactant, and ionic compound to achieve high 
recovery percent. The recovery percent, limit of detection (LOD), limit of 
quantification (LOQ), and relative standard deviation (RSD %) were 
4.101 μg·mL-1, 12.427 μg·mL-1, and 1.199% (n = 3), respectively. The results 
show that the prepared MIP can be used as an effective and inexpensive adsorbent 
for preconcentration and galegine extraction from a natural sample. It is 
noteworthy that this developed method was used successfully to determine 
galegine extracted from Galega officinalis L.

Copyright © 2020 M. Azimi et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/3646712
PMCID: PMC7068149
PMID: 32190402

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest regarding the publication of this paper.
