1. Saudi Pharm J. 2020 Mar;28(3):362-368. doi: 10.1016/j.jsps.2020.01.017. Epub 
2020 Feb 3.

Advanced and multifaceted stability profiling of the first-line antidiabetic 
drugs metformin, gliclazide and glipizide under various controlled stress 
conditions.

Gedawy A(1), Al-Salami H(1)(2), Dass CR(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Curtin University, Bentley 6102, Australia.
(2)Curtin Health Innovation Research Institute, Bentley 6102, Australia.

The antidiabetic drugs metformin, gliclazide and glipizide have been widely used 
and studied in terms of pharmacological and antidiabetic effects, and their 
individual stability has been studied in the literature. However, the drugs' 
combined stability profiling remains poorly understood, and hence the aim of 
this study was to investigate the collective stability profiling of different 
combinations at various controlled conditions. Degradation assessments were 
carried out on metformin, glipizide and gliclazide by applying a 
stability-indicating HPLC method that was developed and validated in accordance 
with ICH guidelines. Glipizide, gliclazide, metformin and the binary mixtures 
(metformin/glipizide and metformin/gliclazide) were subjected to different 
forced degradation conditions and were detected at 227 nm by an isocratic 
separation on an Alltima CN column (250 mm × 4.6 mm × 5µ) utilizing a mobile 
phase that consists of 20 mM ammonium formate buffer (pH 3.5) and acetonitrile 
at a ratio of (45:55, v/v). The method is linear (R2 = 0.9999) at the 
concentration range 2.5-150 µg/ml for metformin and 1.25-150 µg/ml for 
sulfonylureas respectively and offers a specific and sensitive tool for their 
determination in <10 min chromatographic run. All drug peaks were sharp and well 
separated. Stress degradation revealed that metformin has a remarkable 
sensitivity to alkaline stress, glipizide was more sensitive to thermal 
degradation while gliclazide exhibited almost full degradation in acidic, 
alkaline and oxidative stress conditions.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsps.2020.01.017
PMCID: PMC7078535
PMID: 32194338
