1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Mar 19;21(6):2124. doi: 10.3390/ijms21062124.

Retinoprotection by BGP-15, a Hydroximic Acid Derivative, in a Type II Diabetic 
Rat Model Compared to Glibenclamide, Metformin, and Pioglitazone.

Wachal Z(1), Bombicz M(1), Priksz D(1), Hegedűs C(1), Kovács D(1), Szabó AM(1), 
Kiss R(1), Németh J(1), Juhász B(1), Szilvássy Z(1), Varga B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Debrecen, Nagyerdei krt 98., H-4032 Debrecen, Hungary.

High blood glucose and the consequential ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury 
damage vessels of the retina, deteriorating its function, which can be clearly 
visualized by electroretinography (ERG). The aim of the present study was to 
evaluate the possible retinoprotective effects of systemic BGP-15, an emerging 
drug candidate, in an insulin resistant animal model, the Goto-Kakizaki rat, and 
compare these results with well-known anti-diabetics such as glibenclamide, 
metformin, and pioglitazone, which even led to some novel conclusions about 
these well-known agents. Experiments were carried out on diseased animal model 
(Goto-Kakizaki rats). The used methods include weight measurement, 
glucose-related measurements-like fasting blood sugar analysis, oral glucose 
tolerance test, hyperinsulinemic euglycemic glucose clamp (HEGC), and 
calculations of different indices from HEGC results-electroretinography and 
Western Blot. Beside its apparent insulin sensitization, BGP-15 was also able to 
counteract the retina-damaging effect of Type II diabetes comparable to the 
aforementioned anti-diabetics. The mechanism of retinoprotective action may 
include sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) and matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9) enzymes, as 
BGP-15 was able to elevate SIRT1 and decrease MMP9 expression in the eye. Based 
on our results, this emerging hydroximic acid derivative might be a future 
target of pharmacological developments as a potential drug against the harmful 
consequences of diabetes, such as diabetic retinopathy.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21062124
PMCID: PMC7139510
PMID: 32204537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
