1. J Dent Res. 2020 Jul;99(7):830-838. doi: 10.1177/0022034520913250. Epub 2020
Mar  23.

Effects of Sulfonylureas on Periodontopathic Bacteria-Induced Inflammation.

Kawahara Y(1), Kaneko T(2), Yoshinaga Y(1)(3), Arita Y(1), Nakamura K(2), Koga 
C(2), Yoshimura A(4), Sakagami R(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Periodontology, Department of Odontology, Fukuoka Dental College, 
Fukuoka, Japan.
(2)Center for Oral Diseases, Fukuoka Dental College, Fukuoka, Japan.
(3)Oral Medicine Research Center, Fukuoka Dental College, Fukuoka, Japan.
(4)Department of Periodontology and Endodontology, Nagasaki University Graduate 
School of Biomedical Sciences, Nagasaki, Japan.

Interleukin-1β (IL-1β) is an inflammatory cytokine produced by 
monocytes/macrophages and is closely associated with periodontal diseases. The 
NLRP3 inflammasome is involved in IL-1β activation through pro-IL-1β processing 
and pyroptotic cell death in bacterial infection. Recently, glyburide, a 
hypoglycemic sulfonylurea, has been reported to reduce IL-1β activation by 
suppressing activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome. Therefore, we evaluated the 
possibility of targeting the NLRP3 inflammasome pathway by glyburide to suppress 
periodontal pathogen-induced inflammation. THP-1 cells (a human monocyte cell 
line) were differentiated to macrophage-like cells by treatment with phorbol 
12-myristate 13-acetate and stimulated by periodontopathic bacteria, 
Porphyromonas gingivalis, Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans, or 
Fusobacterium nucleatum, in the presence of glyburide. IL-1β and caspase-1 
expression in the cells and culture supernatants were analyzed by Western 
blotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and cell death was analyzed by 
lactate dehydrogenase assay. Stimulation of THP-1 macrophage-like cells with 
every periodontopathic bacteria induced IL-1β secretion without cell death, 
which was suppressed by the NLRP3 inhibitor, MCC950, and caspase-1 inhibitor, 
z-YVAD-FMK. Glyburide treatment suppressed IL-1β expression in culture 
supernatants and enhanced intracellular IL-1β expression, suggesting that 
glyburide may have inhibited IL-1β secretion. Subsequently, a periodontitis rat 
model was generated by injecting periodontal bacteria into the gingiva, which 
was analyzed histologically. Oral administration of glyburide significantly 
suppressed the infiltration of inflammatory cells and the number of osteoclasts 
in the alveolar bone compared with the control. In addition to glyburide, 
glimepiride was shown to suppress the release of IL-1β from THP-1 
macrophage-like cells, whereas other sulfonylureas (tolbutamide and gliclazide) 
or other hypoglycemic drugs belonging to the biguanide family, such as 
metformin, failed to suppress IL-1β release. Our results suggest that 
pharmacological targeting of the NLRP3 pathway may be a strategy for suppressing 
periodontal diseases.

DOI: 10.1177/0022034520913250
PMID: 32202959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
