1. Neuropharmacology. 2020 Sep 15;175:108065. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2020.108065. Epub 2020 Mar 21.

Metformin attenuates cadmium-induced neuronal apoptosis in vitro via blocking 
ROS-dependent PP5/AMPK-JNK signaling pathway.

Chen X(1), Wu W(1), Gong B(1), Hou L(1), Dong X(1), Xu C(1), Zhao R(1), Yu Q(1), 
Zhou Z(1), Huang S(2), Chen L(3).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Molecular and Medical Biotechnology, College of 
Life Sciences, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing, 210023, PR China.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Louisiana State University 
Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA, 71130-3932, USA; Feist-Weiller Cancer 
Center, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, Shreveport, LA, 
71130-3932, USA. Electronic address: shuan1@lsuhsc.edu.
(3)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Molecular and Medical Biotechnology, College of 
Life Sciences, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing, 210023, PR China. Electronic 
address: lchen@njnu.edu.cn.

Cadmium (Cd), a toxic environment contaminant, induces reactive oxygen species 
(ROS)-mediated neuronal apoptosis and consequential neurodegenerative disorders. 
Metformin, an anti-diabetic drug, has recently received a great attention owing 
to its protection against neurodegenerative diseases. However, little is known 
regarding the effect of metformin on Cd-induced neurotoxicity. Here we show that 
metformin effectively prevented Cd-evoked apoptotic cell death in neuronal 
cells, by suppressing Cd activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNK), which was 
attributed to blocking Cd inactivation of protein phosphatase 5 (PP5) and 
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). Inhibition of JNK with SP600125, knockdown 
of c-Jun, or overexpression of PP5 potentiated metformin's inhibitory effect on 
Cd-induced phosphorylation of JNK/c-Jun and apoptosis. Activation of AMPK with 
AICAR or ectopic expression of constitutively active AMPKα strengthened the 
inhibitory effects of metformin on Cd-induced phosphorylation of JNK/c-Jun and 
apoptosis, whereas expression of dominant negative AMPKα weakened these effects 
of metformin. Metformin repressed Cd-induced ROS, thereby diminishing cell 
death. N-acetyl-l-cysteine enhanced the inhibitory effects of metformin on 
Cd-induced ROS and apoptosis. Moreover, using Mito-TEMPO, we further 
demonstrated that metformin attenuated Cd-induced cell death by suppressing 
induction of mitochondrial ROS. Taken together, these results indicate that 
metformin prevents mitochondrial ROS inactivation of PP5 and AMPK, thus 
attenuating Cd-induced JNK activation and apoptosis in neuronal cells. Our data 
highlight that metformin may be a promising drug for prevention of Cd-induced 
oxidative stress and neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2020.108065
PMCID: PMC7492486
PMID: 32209321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The authors declare that 
they have no conflicts of interest.
