1. J Ethnopharmacol. 2020 Jun 12;255:112771. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.112771. Epub
 2020 Mar 19.

Nepeta angustifolia C. Y. Wu improves renal injury in HFD/STZ-induced diabetic 
nephropathy and inhibits oxidative stress-induced apoptosis of mesangial cells.

Huang S(1), Tan M(1), Guo F(2), Dong L(1), Liu Z(1), Yuan R(3), Dongzhi Z(4), 
Lee DS(5), Wang Y(6), Li B(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Qingdao University of Science & Technology, Qingdao, 
266042, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Baicheng Medical College, Baicheng, 137000, China.
(3)Department of Medicament, College of Medicine, Tibet University, Lhasa, 
850000, China.
(4)Department of Medicament, College of Medicine, Tibet University, Lhasa, 
850000, China; Department of Pharmacognosy and Pharmaceutical Botany, Faculty of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Prince of Songkla University, Hat Yai, Songkhla, 90112, 
Thailand.
(5)College of Pharmacy, Chosun University, Dong-gu, Gwangju, 61452, South Korea.
(6)Tianjin Key Laboratory of TCM Chemistry and Analysis, Tianjin University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin, 300000, China.
(7)Department of Pharmacy, Qingdao University of Science & Technology, Qingdao, 
266042, China. Electronic address: leebin009@163.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: As an important medicinal material constituting 
a variety of traditional Chinese medicine prescriptions, Nepeta angustifolia C. 
Y. Wu was used as a folk medicine to treat various vascular-related diseases 
including apoplexia, and cerebral haemorrhage in Tibet, China. Our previous 
studies have shown that this plant had a significant protective effect on 
vascular dysfunction of the intracerebral haemorrhage and diabetic rats. In 
present study, we aimed to investigate the protective effects and underlying 
mechanisms of Nepeta angustifolia on diabetic nephropathy (DN), a microvascular 
complication.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study is aim to evaluate the protective effect of ethanol 
extracts of N. angustifolia (NA) on DN, and explore mechanism of action to 
provide basis for its pharmacological action against DN.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: High-fat diet and low-dose streptozotocin administration 
(HFD/STZ) induced diabetic rats were randomly divided into 5 groups (n = 8): the 
diabetic model group, metformin group, and three dose groups of NA (60 mg/kg, 
120 mg/kg, 240 mg/kg). After administration of NA for 8 weeks, the blood, urine 
and renal tissue were collected for subsequent experiments. Biochemical markers 
(urine protein, Cr, BUN), oxidative stress makers (SOD, GSH-px and MDA) and 
pro-inflammatory mediators (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6 and MCP-1) were evaluated by 
commercial kit and ELISA, respectively. The effect of NA on DN was further 
confirmed by evaluation of renal histopathology by using the H&E, PAS and Masson 
staining. The H2O2-induced HBZY-1 cells (rat glomerular mesangial cells) were 
also been used to evaluate the renal protective effect of NA (50 μg/mL, 
100 μg/mL, 200 μg/mL). The oxidative stress makers were detected by commercial 
kit. The levels of apoptosis and related proteins (caspase 3, 9) were detected 
by TUNEL assay and western blot analysis, respectively. The depolarization of 
mitochondrial membrane potential was detected by JC-1 staining assay.
RESULTS: The administration of NA is helpful to maintain near normal body 
weight, blood glucose, urine volume, urine protein, kidney index and serum 
levels of Cr and BUN. NA treatment significantly improve renal dysfunction by 
the down-regulation of renal oxidative stress and pro-inflammatory mediators in 
HFD/STZ induced diabetic rats. In vitro experiments, NA has a significant 
cellular protective effect in H2O2-induced HBZY-1 cells, as well as the 
regulation in increases of SOD level and the decreases of ROS and MDA levels. 
Furthermore, NA treatment can significantly inhibit H2O2 induced mesangial cells 
apoptosis by the increasing mitochondrial potential and suppressing 
caspases-madiated signaling pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: NA has obvious improvement on renal dysfunction in HFD/STZ induced 
diabetic rats. NA can protect mesangial cells by inhibiting oxidative stress 
induced apoptosis, which may be related to its regulation of 
mitochondrial-caspase apoptosis pathway.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.112771
PMID: 32201300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have declared that there is no conflict of interest.
