1. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2020 Mar 1;21(3):733-741. doi: 
10.31557/APJCP.2020.21.3.733.

Effect of Metformin For Decreasing Proliferative Marker in Women with 
Endometrial Cancer: A Randomized Double-blind Placebo-Controlled Trial.

Petchsila K(1), Prueksaritanond N(1), Insin P(1), Yanaranop M(1), Chotikawichean 
N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Rajavithi Hospital, Bangkok, 
Thailand.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Rajavithi Hospital, Bangkok, 
Thailand.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the Ki-67 index of endometrial cancer cells before and 
after treatment between the metformin and placebo group in women with 
endometrial cancer (EC).
METHODS: This study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial 
conducting in non-diabetic women who diagnosed with endometrioid EC and had a 
schedule for elective surgical staging at Rajavithi Hospital between August 2018 
and June 2019. Tissue specimens were obtained via endometrial curettage at the 
time of initial diagnosis (pre-treatment) and hysterectomy (post-treatment) to 
assess the value of the Ki-67 index by immunochemistry. Patients were randomly 
assigned into 2 groups: metformin and placebo group. Metformin 850 mg or placebo 
1 tab were administered once daily for at least 7 days, starting on the first 
morning after recruitment until one day before surgery. Baseline characteristics 
(e.g., age, body mass index, co-morbidities) including surgical and pathological 
characteristics were recorded. The metabolic effect of metformin was also 
evaluated by a recording of fasting blood sugar, HbA1C and potential adverse 
events including nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and hypoglycemic symptom.
RESULTS: A total of 49 EC patients were included in this study. Twenty-five 
patients were assigned to the metformin group and 24 patients were assigned to 
the placebo group. Baseline demographic, surgical, and pathological 
characteristics between the 2 groups were similar. Metformin significantly 
changed the Ki-67 index relative to placebo, with a mean decrease of 23.3% 
(p=0.001) and a mean proportional decrease of 39.1% (p=0.006) before and after 
treatment. Additionally, no significant differences were detected in metabolic 
effects and adverse events between the metformin and the placebo groups.
CONCLUSION: Short-term treatment with an oral metformin significantly reduced a 
proliferative marker Ki-67 index in women with endometrioid EC awaiting surgical 
staging. This study supports the biological effect of metformin in EC and 
potential applications in the adjuvant treatment in EC patients.

DOI: 10.31557/APJCP.2020.21.3.733
PMCID: PMC7437343
PMID: 32212801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
