1. Diabetes Metab Syndr Obes. 2020 Mar 13;13:713-718. doi: 10.2147/DMSO.S231979. 
eCollection 2020.

Guava Leaf Extract Attenuates Insulin Resistance via the PI3K/Akt Signaling 
Pathway in a Type 2 Diabetic Mouse Model.

Yang Q(#)(1), Wen YM(#)(1), Shen J(1), Chen MM(1), Wen JH(2), Li ZM(3), Liang 
YZ(#)(3), Xia N(#)(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Guangxi Medical University, Nanning 530021, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Health Examination, Jiangmen Central Hospital, Jiangmen, 
Guangdong 529070, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Guangxi Medical University, Nanning 530021, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Insulin resistance is well known to exhibit essential 
effects on the progression of diabetes mellitus (DM). Guava leaf was also 
reported to exhibit anti-diabetic effects including decreasing blood glucose. 
Therefore, this present study aims to explore the role guava leaf extract (GLE) 
plays in insulin resistance and its mechanism of action via the PI3K/Akt 
signaling pathway.
METHODS: KK-Ay mice is a spontaneous genetic type 2 diabetes mouse model induced 
by feeding a high fat and high sugar diet. Mice were randomly assigned into 
three groups: diabetic mice (DM), DM + MET (diabetic mice treated with 
metformin) and DM + GLE (diabetic mice treated with GLE) groups. After 8 weeks 
of treatment, body weight and levels of fasting plasma glucose (FPG), fasting 
insulin and lipids in plasma were measured. Mice were sacrificed and mRNA and 
protein expression of insulin receptor substrate1 (IRS1), phosphatidylinositol 
3-kinase (PI3K) and serine/threonine kinase protein B (Akt) in livers were 
measured.
RESULTS: GLE markedly reduced body weight, FPG, fasting insulin and insulin 
resistance index but increased the insulin sensitivity index of diabetic KK-Ay 
mice. Moreover, GLE upregulated the expression of IRS-1, PI3K and Akt mRNAs in 
livers of diabetic KK-Ay mice. In addition, GLE also elevated IRS-1, PI3K, Akt, 
p-PI3K and p-Akt protein expression in their livers. The results of the DM + MET 
group were similar to those of the DM + GLE group.
CONCLUSION: GLE plays anti-diabetic roles by ameliorating insulin resistance in 
KK-Ay diabetic mice and this is related to the activation of PI3K/Akt signaling 
pathway.

Â© 2020 Yang et al.

DOI: 10.2147/DMSO.S231979
PMCID: PMC7078673
PMID: 32214834

Conflict of interest statement: All authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.
