1. Endocrinol Diabetes Metab Case Rep. 2020 Mar 25;2020:20-0010. doi: 
10.1530/EDM-20-0010. Online ahead of print.

Corticotroph adenoma and pituitary fungal infection: a rare association.

Catarino D(1), Ribeiro C(1), Gomes L(1), Paiva I(1).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism Department, Centro Hospitalar e 
Universit√°rio de Coimbra EPE, Coimbra, Portugal.

SUMMARY: Pituitary infections, particularly with fungus, are rare disorders that 
usually occur in immunocompromised patients. Cushing's syndrome predisposes 
patients to infectious diseases due to their immunosuppression status. We report 
the case of a 55-year-old woman, working as a poultry farmer, who developed 
intense headache, palpebral ptosis, anisocoria, prostration and psychomotor 
agitation 9 months after initial diabetes mellitus diagnosis. Cranioencephalic 
CT scan showed a pituitary lesion with bleeding, suggesting pituitary apoplexy. 
Patient underwent transsphenoidal surgery and the neuropathologic study 
indicated a corticotroph adenoma with apoplexy and fungal infection. Patient had 
no preoperative Cushing's syndrome diagnosis. She was evaluated by a 
multidisciplinary team who decided not to administer anti-fungal treatment. The 
reported case shows a rare association between a corticotroph adenoma and a 
pituitary fungal infection. The possible contributing factors were 
hypercortisolism, uncontrolled diabetes and professional activity. 
Transsphenoidal surgery is advocated in these infections; however, anti-fungal 
therapy is still controversial.
LEARNING POINTS: Pituitary infections are rare disorders caused by bacterial, 
viral, fungal and parasitic infections. Pituitary fungal infections usually 
occur in immunocompromised patients. Cushing's syndrome, as immunosuppression 
factor, predisposes patients to infectious diseases, including fungal 
infections. Diagnosis of pituitary fungal infection is often achieved during 
histopathological investigation. Treatment with systemic anti-fungal drugs is 
controversial. Endocrine evaluation is recommended at the time of initial 
presentation of pituitary manifestations.

DOI: 10.1530/EDM-20-0010
PMCID: PMC7159253
PMID: 32213650
