1. Diabetes Care. 2020 Jun;43(6):1234-1241. doi: 10.2337/dc18-2460. Epub 2020 Mar
 27.

Combination Therapy With Canagliflozin Plus Liraglutide Exerts Additive Effect 
on Weight Loss, but Not on HbA(1c), in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes.

Ali AM(1), Martinez R(1), Al-Jobori H(1), Adams J(1), Triplitt C(1), DeFronzo 
R(2), Cersosimo E(1), Abdul-Ghani M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Diabetes, University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio, San Antonio, TX.
(2)Division of Diabetes, University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio, San Antonio, TX albarado@uthscsa.edu.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the effect of combination therapy with canagliflozin plus 
liraglutide on HbA1c, endogenous glucose production (EGP), and body weight 
versus each therapy alone.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Forty-five patients with poorly controlled (HbA1c 
7-11%) type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) on metformin with or without sulfonylurea 
received a 9-h measurement of EGP with [3-3H]glucose infusion, after which they 
were randomized to receive 1) liraglutide 1.2 mg/day (LIRA), 2) canagliflozin 
100 mg/day (CANA), or 3) liraglutide 1.2 mg plus canagliflozin 100 mg 
(CANA/LIRA) for 16 weeks. At 16 weeks, the EGP measurement was repeated.
RESULTS: The mean decrease from baseline to 16 weeks in HbA1c was -1.67 ± 0.29% 
(P = 0.0001), -0.89 ± 0.24% (P = 0.002), and -1.44 ± 0.39% (P = 0.004) in 
patients receiving CANA/LIRA, CANA, and LIRA, respectively. The decrease in body 
weight was -6.0 ± 0.8 kg (P < 0.0001), -3.5 ± 0.5 kg (P < 0.0001), and -1.9 ± 
0.8 kg (P = 0.03), respectively. CANA monotherapy caused a 9% increase in basal 
rate of EGP (P < 0.05), which was accompanied by a 50% increase (P < 0.05) in 
plasma glucagon-to-insulin ratio. LIRA monotherapy reduced plasma glucagon 
concentration and inhibited EGP. In CANA/LIRA-treated patients, EGP increased by 
15% (P < 0.05), even though the plasma insulin response was maintained at 
baseline and the CANA-induced rise in plasma glucagon concentration was blocked.
CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that liraglutide failed to block the 
increase in EGP caused by canagliflozin despite blocking the rise in plasma 
glucagon and preventing the decrease in plasma insulin concentration caused by 
canagliflozin. The failure of liraglutide to prevent the increase in EGP caused 
by canagliflozin explains the lack of additive effect of these two agents on 
HbA1c.

© 2020 by the American Diabetes Association.

DOI: 10.2337/dc18-2460
PMCID: PMC7411279
PMID: 32220916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
