1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Jul 15;155:411-420. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.03.191. Epub 2020 Mar 26.

Development of metformin hydrochloride loaded dissolving tablets with novel 
carboxymethylcellulose/poly-l-lysine/TPP complex.

Wu QX(1), Wang ZD(2), Zheng MF(3), Su T(3), Wang XH(3), Guan YX(4), Chen Y(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Anhui University, Hefei 230601, Anhui, China; Anhui 
Key Laboratory of Modern Biomanufacturing, Hefei 230601, Anhui, China; Key 
Laboratory of Eco-engineering and Biotechnology of Anhui Province, Hefei 230601, 
Anhui, China. Electronic address: wuqx@ahu.edu.cn.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Anhui University, Hefei 230601, Anhui, China; Key 
Laboratory of Biomass Chemical Engineering of Ministry of Education, College of 
Chemical and Biological Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, 
China.
(3)School of Life Sciences, Anhui University, Hefei 230601, Anhui, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Biomass Chemical Engineering of Ministry of Education, 
College of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 
310027, China.
(5)School of Life Sciences, Anhui University, Hefei 230601, Anhui, China; Anhui 
Key Laboratory of Modern Biomanufacturing, Hefei 230601, Anhui, China; Key 
Laboratory of Eco-engineering and Biotechnology of Anhui Province, Hefei 230601, 
Anhui, China.

Natural polymers like polysaccharides, polypeptides and their derivatives are 
broadly applied in drug delivery due to excellent biocompatibility and 
biodegradability. In this study, the dissolving tablets, formed with 
carboxymethylcellulose/poly-l-lysine/tripolyphosphate (CMC/PLL/TPP) complex, 
were prepared using metformin hydrochloride (MetHCl) as model drug. Confocal 
laser scanning microscopy observation manifested that FITC-labeled PLL 
interacted with CMC and formed a uniform interior microstructure. Scanning 
electron microscope images showed the drug-loaded tablets had well-formed shapes 
with smooth surfaces. MetHCl embedded interior the microstructures of the 
tablets and represented in a crystal form. Thermo-gravimetric analysis and 
differential scanning calorimetry indicated that the drug-loaded tablets had 
stable thermal properties with less moisture content (3.52%). Fourier transform 
infrared spectrometer confirmed that the CMC/PLL/TPP complex was fabricated via 
the electrostatic interactions between -NH3+, -COO- and -[P2O54-]- groups. The 
drug-loaded tablets had a high drug loading efficiency of 85.76% and drug 
encapsulation efficiency of 81.47%, and a shorter wetting time of 2.16 min in 
SSF (pH 6.8) and lower swelling ratio of 233.34%. The drug loaded in the samples 
could be released completely within 10 min in simulated saliva fluid (SSF 
pH 6.8), indicating a rapid drug release and dissolving profile in the 
environment, which could be developed for dissolving tablets.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.03.191
PMID: 32224176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest There are no 
conflicts to declare.
