1. Gene. 2020 Jun 30;745:144623. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2020.144623. Epub 2020 Mar
25.

Metformin enhances the sensitivity of colorectal cancer cells to cisplatin 
through ROS-mediated PI3K/Akt signaling pathway.

Zhang P(1), Zhao S(1), Lu X(1), Shi Z(1), Liu H(2), Zhu B(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Bengbu Medical College, Anhui Engineering Technology 
Research Center of Biochemical Pharmaceuticals, Bengbu 233030, Anhui, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Bengbu Medical College, Anhui Engineering Technology 
Research Center of Biochemical Pharmaceuticals, Bengbu 233030, Anhui, China. 
Electronic address: liuhao6886@foxmail.com.
(3)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu 233000, Anhui, China. Electronic address: 
bbmczhubing@163.com.

Metformin and cisplatin have been widely studied as antitumor agents. However, 
the effect of metformin combined with cisplatin has not been investigated in 
colorectal cancer (CRC) cells. This study was aimed to explore the effect of 
metformin or/and cisplatin on cell viability, apoptosis, and the related 
signaling pathways in CRC SW480 and SW620 cells. We found that metformin or 
cisplatin inhibited cell viability of SW480 and SW620 cells in a concentration- 
and time-dependent manner. Furthermore, metformin combined with cisplatin 
obviously inhibited cell viability, decreased colony formation, induced 
apoptosis, mediated cleavage of caspase-9, caspase-3 and PARP, activated 
mitochondrial membrane potential, downregulated Mcl-1 and Bcl-2 expression, 
upregulated Bak and Bax expression, and increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) 
production, compared to the individual agent in SW480 and SW620 cells, which 
were attenuated by N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), a ROS scavenger. Moreover, NAC 
could recover the downregulation of p-PI3K and p-Akt treated with combination of 
metformin and cisplatin, which subsequently activated the PI3K/Akt signaling 
pathway. Taken together, our results demonstrated that metformin enhanced the 
sensitivity of CRC cells to cisplatin through ROS-mediated PI3K/Akt signaling 
pathway.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2020.144623
PMID: 32222530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.
