1. Vascul Pharmacol. 2020 May-Jun;128-129:106676. doi: 10.1016/j.vph.2020.106676.
 Epub 2020 Mar 26.

Increased fractalkine and vascular dysfunction in obesity and in type 2 
diabetes. Effects of oral antidiabetic treatment.

Schinzari F(1), Tesauro M(2), Campia U(3), Cardillo C(4).

Author information:
(1)Policlinico A. Gemelli IRCCS, Roma, Italy.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Università Tor Vergata, Roma, Italy.
(3)Vascular Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Policlinico A. Gemelli IRCCS, Roma, Italy; Department of Internal Medicine, 
Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Roma, Italy. Electronic address: 
carmine.cardillo@unicatt.it.

Activation of fractalkine and other chemokines plays an important role in 
atherogenesis and, in conjunction with endothelial dysfunction, promotes 
premature vascular damage in obesity and diabetes. We hypothesized that 
increased circulating fractalkine coexists with impaired vasomotor function in 
metabolically healthy or unhealthy obesity, and that treatment with antidiabetic 
drugs may impact these abnormalities in type 2 diabetes. Compared to lean 
subjects, in both obese groups the vasodilator responses to acetylcholine and 
sodium nitroprusside were impaired (both P < .001); ETA-receptor blockade 
resulted in greater vasodilation (both P < .001); and plasma levels of 
fractalkine, E-selectin and monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 were 
increased (all P < .05). In diabetic patients, oral antidiabetic drugs 
(glyburide, metformin or pioglitazone) reduced circulating levels fractalkine 
and E-selectin (both P < .05), without affecting vascular responses (all 
P > .05). Our findings indicate that insulin resistant states are associated 
with elevated atherogenic chemokines and impaired vascular reactivity. 
Antidiabetic treatment results in lower circulating fractalkine, which may 
provide cardiovascular benefits.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vph.2020.106676
PMID: 32224233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None for all 
the authors.
