1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Mar 30;21(7):2389. doi: 10.3390/ijms21072389.

Effective Cellular Transport of Ortho-Halogenated Sulfonamide Derivatives of 
Metformin Is Related to Improved Antiproliferative Activity and Apoptosis 
Induction in MCF-7 Cells.

Markowicz-Piasecka M(1), Komeil I(2), Huttunen J(3), Sikora J(1), Huttunen 
KM(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Bioanalysis, Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Drug 
Analysis and Radiopharmacy, Medical University of Lodz, ul. Muszyńskiego1, 
90-151 Lodz, Poland.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmacy and Drug Manufacturing, 
Pharos University, Alexandria 21311, Egypt.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Eastern 
Finland, Yliopistonranta 1C, POB 1627, 70211 Kuopio, Finland.

Metformin is a substrate for plasma membrane monoamine transporters (PMAT) and 
organic cation transporters (OCTs); therefore, the expression of these 
transporters and interactions between them may affect the uptake of metformin 
into tumor cells and its anticancer efficacy. The aim of this study was to 
evaluate how chemical modification of metformin scaffold into benzene 
sulfonamides with halogen substituents (compounds 1-9) may affect affinity 
towards OCTs, cellular uptake in two breast cancer cell lines (MCF-7 and 
MDA-MB-231) and antiproliferative efficacy of metformin. The uptake of most 
sulfonamides was more efficient in MCF-7 cells than in MDA-MB-231 cells. The 
presence of a chlorine atom in the aromatic ring contributed to the highest 
uptake in MCF-7 cells. For instance, the uptake of compound 1 with o-chloro 
substituent in MCF-7 cells was 1.79 ± 0.79 nmol/min/mg protein, while in 
MDA-MB-231 cells, the uptake was considerably lower (0.005 ± 0.0005 nmol/min/mg 
protein). The elevated uptake of tested compounds in MCF-7 was accompanied by 
high antiproliferative activity, with compound 1 being the most active (IC50 = 
12.6 ± 1.2 µmol/L). Further studies showed that inhibition of MCF-7 growth is 
associated with the induction of early and late apoptosis and cell cycle arrest 
at the G0/G1 phase. In summary, the chemical modification of the biguanide 
backbone into halogenated sulfonamides leads to improved transporter-mediated 
cellular uptake in MCF-7 and contributes to the greater antiproliferative 
potency of studied compounds through apoptosis induction and cell cycle arrest.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21072389
PMCID: PMC7177633
PMID: 32235654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
