1. J Cell Physiol. 2020 Nov;235(11):8334-8344. doi: 10.1002/jcp.29677. Epub 2020 
Apr 2.

Metformin inhibition of colorectal cancer cell migration is associated with 
rebuilt adherens junctions and FAK downregulation.

Amable G(1), Martínez-León E(1), Picco ME(1), Nemirovsky SI(2), Rozengurt E(3), 
Rey O(1).

Author information:
(1)Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas, Instituto de 
Inmunología, Genética y Metabolismo, Facultad de Farmacia y Bioquímica, Hospital 
de Clínicas "José de San Martín", Universidad de Buenos Aires, Ciudad Autónoma 
de Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(2)Instituto de Química Biológica de la Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y 
Naturales, Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas, 
Universidad de Buenos Aires, Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)Department of Medicine, Unit of Signal Transduction and Gastrointestinal 
Cancer, Division of Digestive Diseases, CURE: Digestive Diseases Research Center 
and Molecular Biology Institute, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California.

E-cadherin, a central component of the adherens junction (AJ), is a single-pass 
transmembrane protein that mediates cell-cell adhesion. The loss of E-cadherin 
surface expression, and therefore cell-cell adhesion, leads to increased cell 
migration and invasion. Treatment of colorectal cancer (CRC)-derived cells 
(SW-480 and HT-29) with 2.0 mM metformin promoted a redistribution of cytosolic 
E-cadherin to de novo formed puncta along the length of the contacting membranes 
of these cells. Metformin also promoted translocation from the cytosol to the 
plasma membrane of p120-catenin, another core component of the AJs. Furthermore, 
E-cadherin and p120-catenin colocalized with β-catenin at cell-cell contacts. 
Western blot analysis of lysates of CRC-derived cells revealed a substantial 
metformin-induced increase in the level of p120-catenin as well as E-cadherin 
phosphorylation on Ser838/840 , a modification associated with 
β-catenin/E-cadherin interaction. These modifications in E-cadherin, 
p120-catenin and β-catenin localization suggest that metformin induces 
rebuilding of AJs in CRC-derived cells. Those modifications were accompanied by 
the inhibition of focal adhesion kinase (FAK), as revealed by a significant 
decrease in the phosphorylation of FAK at Tyr397 and paxillin at Tyr118 . These 
changes were associated with a reduction in the numbers, but an increase in the 
size, of focal adhesions and by the inhibition of cell migration. Overall, these 
observations indicate that metformin targets multiple pathways associated with 
CRC development and progression.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.29677
PMCID: PMC7529638
PMID: 32239671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST The authors declare that 
they have no conflicts of interest with the contents of this article.
