1. Cell Biol Int. 2020 Aug;44(8):1628-1639. doi: 10.1002/cbin.11355. Epub 2020
Apr  18.

The protective role of metformin in autophagic status in peripheral blood 
mononuclear cells of type 2 diabetic patients.

Bhattacharya D(1), Dutta M(2), Mukhopadhyay M(3), Bhattacharyya M(4), Chowdhury 
S(5), Karmakar P(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Maulana Azad College, Kolkata, West Bengal, 
India.
(2)Division of Electron Microscopy, ICMR-NICED, Kolkata, West Bengal, India.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, JIS University, Agarpara, Kolkata, West Bengal, 
India.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, University of Calcutta, Kolkata, West Bengal, 
India.
(5)Department of Endocrinology & Metabolism, Institute of Postgraduate Medical 
Education and Research, Kolkata, West Bengal, India.
(6)Department of Life Science and Biotechnology, Jadavpur University, Kolkata, 
West Bengal, India.

Autophagy plays an important role in the pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes 
(T2D). Metformin is the most common antidiabetic drug. The main objective of 
this study was to explore the molecular mechanism of metformin in 
starvation-induced autophagy in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of 
type 2 diabetic patients. PBMCs were isolated from 10 diabetic patients and 7 
non-diabetic healthy volunteers. The autophagic puncta and markers were measured 
with the help of monodansylcadaverine staining and western blot. Additionally, 
transmission electron microscopy was also performed. No significant changes were 
observed in the initial autophagy marker protein levels in PBMCs of T2D after 
metformin treatment though diabetic PBMCs showed a high level of 
phospho-mammalian target of rapamycin, p62 and reduced expression of 
phospho-AMP-activated protein kinase and lysosomal membrane-associated protein 
2, indicating a defect in autophagy. Also, induction of autophagy by tunicamycin 
resulted in apoptosis in diabetic PBMCs as observed by caspase-3 cleavage and 
reduced expression of Bcl2. Inhibition of autophagy by bafilomycin rendered 
consistent expression of p62 indicating a defect in the final process of 
autophagy. Further, electron microscopic studies also confirmed massive vacuole 
overload and a sign of apoptotic cell death in PBMCs of diabetic patients, 
whereas metformin treatment reduced the number of autophagic vacuoles perhaps by 
lysosomal fusion. Thus, our results indicate that defective autophagy in T2D is 
associated with the fusion process of lysosomes which could be overcome by 
metformin.

Â© 2020 International Federation for Cell Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/cbin.11355
PMID: 32237184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
