1. Cancer Med. 2020 Jun;9(11):3875-3884. doi: 10.1002/cam4.3029. Epub 2020 Apr 5.

Metformin revert insulin-induced oxaliplatin resistance by activating 
mitochondrial apoptosis pathway in human colon cancer HCT116 cells.

Liu C(1), Liu Q(1), Yan A(1), Chang H(1), Ding Y(1), Tao J(1), Qiao C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Nanjing First Hospital, Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.

Erratum in
    Cancer Med. 2021 Apr;10(7):2526-2527.

BACKGROUND: Several studies have suggested that drug resistance in colon cancer 
patients with diabetes may be associated with long-term insulin administration, 
which in turn decreases the survival rate. Metformin is a commonly used drug to 
treat diabetes but has been recently demonstrated to have a potential 
therapeutic effect on colon cancer. This study aimed to elucidate the underlying 
mechanism by which metformin reverts insulin-induced oxaliplatin resistance in 
human colon cancer HCT116 cells.
METHODS: Two colon cancer cell lines (HCT116 and LoVo) were used to verify 
whether the expression of insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS-1) could impact the 
half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) of oxaliplatin after chronic 
insulin treatment. The IC50 of oxaliplatin in both cell lines was measured to 
identify metformin sensitization to oxaliplatin. The adenosine 
monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) inhibitor, namely AMPK small 
interfering RNA, was used to block AMPK activation to identify critical proteins 
in the AMPK/Erk signaling pathway. Bcl-2 is a vital antiapoptotic protein 
involved in the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. Finally, immunofluorescence and 
electron microscopy were performed to investigate how metformin affects the 
ultrastructural integrity of mitochondria.
RESULTS: The IC50 of oxaliplatin in HCT116 cells was noticeably increased. After 
the cells were treated with metformin, oxaliplatin resistance was reversed. 
According to the results of the western blotting assay of vital proteins 
involved in the classical apoptosis pathway, cleaved caspase-9 was noticeably 
upregulated, suggesting that the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway was activated. 
These results were verified by imaging of mitochondria using electron 
microscopy. The AMPK/Erk signaling pathway experiments revealed that the 
upregulation of Bcl-2 induced by insulin through Erk phosphorylation was 
inhibited by metformin and that such inhibition could be mitigated by the 
inhibition of AMPK.
CONCLUSIONS: Insulin-induced oxaliplatin resistance was reversed by 
metformin-mediated AMPK activation. Accordingly, metformin is likely to 
sensitize patients with diabetes to chemotherapeutic drugs used to treat colon 
cancer.

Â© 2020 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.3029
PMCID: PMC7286444
PMID: 32248666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.
