1. Med Sci Monit. 2020 Apr 2;26:e921891. doi: 10.12659/MSM.921891.

Effects of Dapagliflozin and Sitagliptin on Insulin Resistant and Body Fat 
Distribution in Newly Diagnosed Type 2 Diabetic Patients.

Sun Y(1), Yan D(2), Hao Z(1), Cui L(1), Li G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, The Third People Hospital of Huizhou, The 
Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University, Huizhou, Guangdong, China 
(mainland).
(2)Department of Urology, Citic Huizhou Hospital, Huizhou, Guangdong, China 
(mainland).

BACKGROUND The current study aimed to compare the effects of dapagliflozin and 
sitagliptin on insulin resistant and body fat distribution in newly diagnosed 
type 2 diabetic patients. MATERIAL AND METHODS This study was an open-label, 
parallel controlled study. Patients were included if they were newly diagnosed 
with type 2 diabetes (<6 months) and had been receiving dapagliflozin or 
sitagliptin for 12 weeks in combination with a stable dose of metformin in the 
last month. At baseline and 12 weeks, insulin resistant (homeostatic model 
assessment of insulin resistance [HOMA-IR]), body fat distribution (waist/hip 
ratio), fasting blood glucose (FBG), glycated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), lipid 
profiles, and C-reactive protein (CRP) level were compared. RESULTS There were 
59 patients receiving dapagliflozin and 67 patients receiving sitagliptin. There 
was no significant between-group difference in baseline characteristics. After 
12 weeks of treatment, compared to the sitagliptin group, the FBG (6.4±0.5 
versus 6.7±0.7 mmol/L), HbA1c (7.0±0.4 versus 7.2±0.5%), HOMA-IR (1.6±0.5 versus 
1.8±0.6), triglyceride (1.6±0.4 versus 1.8±0.3 mmol/L), and CRP (3.1±0.7 versus 
3.3±0.5 mg/L) were slightly lower in the dapagliflozin group. Within each group, 
compared to baseline, FBG (dapagliflozin [6.4±0.5 versus 7.8±0.7 mmol/L]; 
sitagliptin [6.7±0.7 versus 7.7±0.6 mmol/L]), HbA1c (dapagliflozin [7.0±0.4 
versus 8.0±0.5%]; sitagliptin [7.2±0.5 versus 8.1%±0.6%]), HOMA-IR 
(dapagliflozin [1.6±0.5 versus 2.4±0.4]; sitagliptin [1.8±0.6 versus 2.5±0.4]), 
triglyceride (dapagliflozin [1.6±0.4 versus 2.2±0.5 mmol/L]; sitagliptin 
[1.8±0.3 versus 2.1±0.5 mmol/L]), and CRP (dapagliflozin [3.1±0.7 versus 6.2±1.1 
mg/L]; sitagliptin [3.3±0.5 versus 6.1±1.0 mg/L]) were significantly decreased. 
CONCLUSIONS Dapagliflozin and sitagliptin had comparable effects on improving 
insulin resistant and blood glucose control, and these benefits may be 
associated with improvement of systemic inflammation.

DOI: 10.12659/MSM.921891
PMCID: PMC7152738
PMID: 32240122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest None.
