1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Jul 15;155:835-845. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.03.227. Epub 2020 Mar 30.

Okra (Hibiscus esculentus) gum based hydrophilic matrices for controlled drug 
delivery applications: Estimation of percolation threshold.

Khizer Z(1), Nirwan JS(1), Conway BR(1), Ghori MU(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, School of Applied Sciences, University of 
Huddersfield, Huddersfield, UK.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, School of Applied Sciences, University of 
Huddersfield, Huddersfield, UK. Electronic address: m.ghori@hud.ac.uk.

This study aims to explore the potential of gum extracted from okra fruit 
(Hibiscus esculentus) in developing hydrophilic matrices for controlled drug 
release applications, including determination of its percolation threshold. 
Flurbiprofen (poorly soluble), theophylline (sparingly soluble) and metformin 
(freely soluble) were employed as model drugs and incorporated using direct 
compression into matrices containing 40% w/w of three drugs with different 
physicochemical properties. Atomic force microscopy was used to study the 
surface texture properties of developed matrices; the surfaces of the 
flurbiprofen-based matrices were comparatively rough most likely as a 
consequence of its poor compactability. Swelling studies found that the swelling 
rate increased as the concentration of okra gum was increased. However, for all 
matrices, an increase in the gum concentration resulted in decreased drug 
release. The estimated percolation threshold of the okra gum calculated was 
found in the region of ~25% v/v plus initial porosity. Knowing the percolation 
threshold will enable formulators to use the minimal amount of polymer for 
sustain release matrices thus the controlling costs and maximising the 
sustainable potential of okra. This study will not only assist researchers in 
developing effective okra gum-based extended-release matrices but also expected 
to contribute towards its exploration at an industrial scale.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.03.227
PMID: 32240737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
