1. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol. 2020 May 1;318(5):F1229-F1236. doi: 
10.1152/ajprenal.00539.2019. Epub 2020 Apr 6.

Metformin arrests the progression of established kidney disease in the subtotal 
nephrectomy model of chronic kidney disease.

Borges CM(1), Fujihara CK(2), Malheiros DMAC(3), de Ávila VF(2), Formigari 
GP(1), Lopes de Faria JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Renal Pathophysiology Laboratory, Investigation on Diabetes Complications, 
Faculty of Medical Sciences, State University of Campinas, Campinas, São Paulo, 
Brazil.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Renal Division, Department of Clinical Medicine, 
University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Renal Pathology, Department of Pathology, University of 
São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Metformin, an AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activator, has been shown in 
previous studies to reduce kidney fibrosis in different models of experimental 
chronic kidney disease (CKD). However, in all of these studies, the 
administration of metformin was initiated before the establishment of renal 
disease, which is a condition that does not typically occur in clinical 
settings. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the 
administration of metformin could arrest the progression of established renal 
disease in a well-recognized model of CKD, the subtotal kidney nephrectomy (Nx) 
model. Adult male Munich-Wistar rats underwent either Nx or sham operations. 
After the surgery (30 days), Nx rats that had systolic blood pressures of >170 
mmHg and albuminuria levels of >40 mg/24 h were randomized to a no-treatment 
condition or to a treatment condition with metformin (300 mg·kg-1·day-1) for a 
period of either 60 or 120 days. After 60 days of treatment, we did not observe 
any differences in kidney disease parameters between Nx metformin-treated and 
untreated rats. However, after 120 days, Nx rats that had been treated with 
metformin displayed significant reductions in albuminuria levels and in markers 
of renal fibrosis. These effects were independent of any other effects on blood 
pressure or glycemia. In addition, treatment with metformin was also able to 
activate kidney AMPK and therefore improve mitochondrial biogenesis. It was 
concluded that metformin can arrest the progression of established kidney 
disease in the Nx model, likely via the activation of AMPK.

DOI: 10.1152/ajprenal.00539.2019
PMID: 32249610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
