1. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2020 Apr 1;13(4):60. doi: 10.3390/ph13040060.

The Treatment of Impaired Wound Healing in Diabetes: Looking among Old Drugs.

Spampinato SF(1), Caruso GI(1)(2), De Pasquale R(3), Sortino MA(1), Merlo S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical and Biotechnological Sciences, Section of 
Pharmacology University of Catania, 95123 Catania, Italy.
(2)Ph.D. Program in Biotechnologies, Department of Biomedical and 
Biotechnological Sciences, University of Catania, 95123 Catania, Italy.
(3)Department of General Surgery and Medical-Surgical Specialties, University of 
Catania, 95123 Catania, Italy.

Chronic wounds often occur in patients with diabetes mellitus due to the 
impairment of wound healing. This has negative consequences for both the patient 
and the medical system and considering the growing prevalence of diabetes, it 
will be a significant medical, social, and economic burden in the near future. 
Hence, the need for therapeutic alternatives to the current available treatments 
that, although various, do not guarantee a rapid and definite reparative 
process, appears necessary. We here analyzed current treatments for wound 
healing, but mainly focused the attention on few classes of drugs that are 
already in the market with different indications, but that have shown in 
preclinical and few clinical trials the potentiality to be used in the treatment 
of impaired wound healing. In particular, repurposing of the antiglycemic agents 
dipeptidylpeptidase 4 (DPP4) inhibitors and metformin, but also, statins and 
phenyotin have been analyzed. All show encouraging results in the treatment of 
chronic wounds, but additional, well designed studies are needed to allow these 
drugs access to the clinics in the therapy of impaired wound healing.

DOI: 10.3390/ph13040060
PMCID: PMC7243111
PMID: 32244718

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest 
including any kind of personal financial interest.
