1. Cancer Epidemiol. 2020 Jun;66:101710. doi: 10.1016/j.canep.2020.101710. Epub 
2020 Apr 1.

Impact of preexisting type 2 diabetes mellitus and antidiabetic drugs on 
all-cause and cause-specific mortality among Medicaid-insured women diagnosed 
with breast cancer.

Lawrence WR(1), Hosler AS(2), Gates Kuliszewski M(3), Leinung MC(4), Zhang X(5), 
Schymura MJ(3), Boscoe FP(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
University at Albany, State University of New York, One University Place, 
Rensselaer, NY, United States. Electronic address: wlawrence@albany.edu.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
University at Albany, State University of New York, One University Place, 
Rensselaer, NY, United States.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
University at Albany, State University of New York, One University Place, 
Rensselaer, NY, United States; Bureau of Cancer Epidemiology, New York State 
Department of Health, 150 Broadway, Suite 361, Albany, NY, United States.
(4)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Medicine, Albany 
Medical College, 25 Hackett Boulevard MC-141, Albany, NY, United States.
(5)Bureau of Cancer Epidemiology, New York State Department of Health, 150 
Broadway, Suite 361, Albany, NY, United States.

BACKGROUND: We investigated the influence preexisting type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(T2DM) and antidiabetic drugs have on all-cause and cause-specific mortality 
among Medicaid-insured women diagnosed with breast cancer.
METHODS: 9221 women aged <64 years diagnosed with breast cancer and reported to 
the New York State (NYS) Cancer Registry from 2004 to 2016 were linked with 
Medicaid claims. Preexisting T2DM was determined by three diagnosis claims for 
T2DM with at least one claim prior to breast cancer diagnosis and a prescription 
claim for an antidiabetic drug within three months following breast cancer 
diagnosis. Estimated menopausal status was determined by age (premenopausal age 
<50; postmenopausal age â‰¥50). Hazard ratios (HR) and 95 % confidence intervals 
(95 %CI) were calculated with Cox proportional hazards regression, adjusting for 
confounders.
RESULTS: Women with preexisting T2DM had greater all-cause (HR = 1.40; 95 %CI 
1.21, 1.63), cancer-specific (HR = 1.24; 95 %CI 1.04, 1.47), and 
cardiovascular-specific (HR = 2.46; 95 %CI 1.54, 3.90) mortality hazard compared 
to nondiabetic women. In subgroup analyses, the association between T2DM and 
all-cause mortality was found among non-Hispanic White (HR 1.78 95 %CI 1.38, 
2.30) and postmenopausal (HR = 1.47; 95 %CI 1.23, 1.77) women, but not among 
other race/ethnicity groups or premenopausal women. Additionally, compared to 
women prescribed metformin, all-cause mortality hazard was elevated among women 
prescribed sulfonylurea (HR = 1.44; 95 %CI 1.06, 1.94) or insulin (HR = 1.54; 95 
%CI 1.12, 2.11).
CONCLUSION: Among Medicaid-insured women with breast cancer, those with 
preexisting T2DM have an increased mortality hazard, especially when prescribed 
sulfonylurea or insulin. Further research is warranted to determine the role 
antidiabetic drugs have on survival among women with breast cancer.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canep.2020.101710
PMCID: PMC9920233
PMID: 32247208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.
