1. J Pharm Biomed Anal. 2020 Jul 15;186:113259. doi: 10.1016/j.jpba.2020.113259. 
Epub 2020 Mar 18.

Employment of a natural deep eutectic solvent as a sustainable mobile phase 
additive for improving the isolation of four crucial cardiovascular drugs by 
micellar liquid chromatography.

Ramezani AM(1), Absalan G(2).

Author information:
(1)Professor Massoumi Laboratory, Department of Chemistry, College of Sciences, 
Shiraz University, Shiraz, 71454, Iran. Electronic address: 
am.ramezani@shirazu.ac.ir.
(2)Professor Massoumi Laboratory, Department of Chemistry, College of Sciences, 
Shiraz University, Shiraz, 71454, Iran. Electronic address: 
absalan@shirazu.ac.ir.

Modification of micellar liquid chromatography (MLC) with a natural deep 
eutectic solvent (NADES) and butanol was effectively performed for analysis of 
four crucial cardiovascular drugs namely aspirin, atorvastatin, metformin, and 
metoprolol. The multivariate software tools were employed for screening and 
optimizing the primary experimental parameters including sodium dodecyl sulphate 
concentration ([SDS]) as well as the volume percentages of NADES, butanol, and 
glacial acetic acid (GAC). By using the desirability function, the optimal 
framework of the mobile phase was obtained at volume ratio of 83:10:3.5:3.5, 
respectively, for SDS (0.09 mol L-1), butanol, NADES, and GAC. Moreover, the 
curvature and effect plots were applied for evaluating the robustness of the 
procedure. At the optimal conditions, the drugs were excellently separated 
within a total analysis time of 12 min when the flow rate of the mobile phase 
was 1 mL min-1. To certify the performance of the developed procedure, the Food 
and Drug Administration guidelines for bioanalytical analysis have been 
implemented. The designed MLC system was successfully utilized for the 
quantification of the drugs in urine and plasma samples.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpba.2020.113259
PMID: 32247163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.
