1. Biomed Pharmacother. 2020 Jul;127:110081. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110081. 
Epub 2020 Mar 31.

Protective effects of AS-IV on diabetic cardiomyopathy by improving myocardial 
lipid metabolism in rat models of T2DM.

Wang Z(1), Zhu Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Zhang J(1), Ji T(1), Li W(2), Li W(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Anti-Inflammatory and Immunopharmacology, Ministry of 
Education, Department of Pharmacology, Basic Medicine College, Anhui Medical 
University. Hefei, 230032, Anhui, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Anti-Inflammatory and Immunopharmacology, Ministry of 
Education, Department of Pharmacology, Basic Medicine College, Anhui Medical 
University. Hefei, 230032, Anhui, China. Electronic address: liweizu@126.com.
(3)Key Laboratory of Anti-Inflammatory and Immunopharmacology, Ministry of 
Education, Department of Pharmacology, Basic Medicine College, Anhui Medical 
University. Hefei, 230032, Anhui, China; Anqing Medical and Pharmaceutical 
College, Anqing, 246052, Anhui, China. Electronic address: lwp19@126.com.

Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) is one of the main complications of type 2 
diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and it is also one of the main causes of heart failure 
and death in advanced diabetes. The myocardial lipotoxic injury induced by 
abnormal lipid metabolism plays an important role in the occurrence and 
development of DCM, such as myocardial inflammation and fibrosis, ultimately 
leading to myocardial remodeling and cardiac insufficiency. Astragaloside IV 
(AS-IV) has many pharmacological effects such as anti-oxidation, 
anti-inflammatory, immune regulation, and anti-ischemic brain damage. This study 
was performed to investigate whether AS-IV could prevent T2DM-induced 
cardiomyopathy and regulate the abnormal myocardial lipid metabolism in 
diabetes. In this study, the T2DM model was induced by feeding with high-fat 
food and injected with low-dose STZ in rats. Then the model rats were treated 
with AS-IV and metformin (Met) for 8 weeks. The results showed that AS-IV 
improved cardiac systolic and diastolic function, and ameliorated the cardiac 
histopathological changes in the T2DM rats. Moreover, AS-IV significantly 
improved circulating TC, TG and HDL levels and cardiac lipid accumulation in 
T2DM rats as well as in high-fat diet (HFD) rats. Furthermore, AS-IV 
significantly inhibited the expressions of TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-1β and myocardial 
fibrosis in T2DM rats, which might be attributed to the improvement of 
myocardial lipid metabolism, ultimately improving cardiac function in T2DM rats. 
Taken together, these data suggested that AS-IV has protective effects on 
T2DM-induced myocardial injury in rats, and its mechanism may be related to the 
improvement of lipid metabolism in cardiomyocytes.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110081
PMID: 32244194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest There are no 
conflicts of interest, financial or otherwise declared by the authors.
