1. Autophagy. 2021 May;17(5):1142-1156. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2020.1749490. Epub 
2020 Apr 19.

The AMPK-MFN2 axis regulates MAM dynamics and autophagy induced by energy 
stresses.

Hu Y(1)(2), Chen H(1)(3), Zhang L(1)(2), Lin X(1)(3), Li X(1)(2), Zhuang 
H(1)(2), Fan H(4), Meng T(1)(2), He Z(1)(2), Huang H(1)(3), Gong Q(5), Zhu D(6), 
Xu Y(7), He P(8), Li L(9), Feng D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Guangzhou Municipal and Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Protein 
Modification and Degradation, Affiliated Cancer Hospital & Institute of 
Guangzhou Medical University, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Guangzhou 
Medical University, 511436, Guangzhou, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, Guangzhou Medical University, 
511436, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Institute of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong Medical University, 
Zhanjiang 524001, China.
(4)Guangdong Provincial People's Hospital, Guangdong Academy of Medical 
Sciences, School of Medicine, South China University of Technology, Guangzhou, 
China.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, GMU-GIBH Joint School of 
Life Sciences, Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou 511436, People's Republic 
of China.
(6)Guangzhou Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, the Second Affiliated 
Hospital, Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Diseases, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou 511436, China.
(7)School of Basic Medical Sciences, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou 
Medical University, Qingyuan People's Hospital, Guangzhou Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China.
(8)Department of Cardiology, Guangdong Cardiovascular Institute, Guangdong 
Provincial Key Laboratory of Coronary Heart Disease Prevention, Guangdong 
Provincial People's Hospital, Guangdong Academy of Medical Sciences, Guangzhou, 
China.
(9)Department of Neurology, Gongli Hospital, Pudong New Area, Shanghai 219 
Miaopu Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai 200135, P. R. China.

Energy deprivation activates the cellular energy sensor AMP-activated protein 
kinase (AMPK), which in turn induces macroautophagy/autophagy. The 
mitochondrial-associated ER membrane (MAM) plays a key role in mitochondrial 
division and autophagy, and the mitochondrial fusion protein MFN2 (mitofusin 2) 
tethers the MAM, but the mechanism by which AMPK and MFN2 regulate autophagy in 
response to energy stress remains unclear. Here, we found that energy stress not 
only triggers mitochondrial fission and autophagy, but more importantly 
increases the number of MAMs, a process that requires AMPK. Interestingly, under 
energy stress, considerable amounts of AMPK translocate from cytosol to the MAM 
and the mitochondrion as mitochondrial fission occurs. Unexpectedly, AMPK 
interacts directly with MFN2. The autophagic ability of mouse embryonic 
fibroblasts (MEFs) lacking MFN2 (mfn2-/-) is significantly attenuated in 
response to energy stress as compared to wild-type MEFs (WT MEFs), while 
re-expression of MFN2 in mfn2-/- cells rescues the autophagy defects of these 
cells. The abundance of MAMs is also greatly reduced in MFN2-deficient cells. 
Functional experiments show that the oxygen consumption rate and the glycolytic 
function of cells lacking MFN2 but not MFN1 are obviously attenuated, and MFN2 
is important for cell survival under energy stress. In conclusion, our study 
establishes the molecular link between the energy sensor AMPK and the MAM tether 
MFN2, and reveals the important role of AMPK and MFN2 in energy stress-induced 
autophagy and MAM dynamics.Abbreviations: ACTB, actin beta; AMPK, AMP-activated 
protein kinase; BECN1, beclin 1; CANX, calnexin; ER, endoplasmic reticulum; HRP, 
horseradish peroxidase; EM, electron microscopy; FL, full-length; KD, kinase 
dead, KO, knockout; MAb, monoclonal antibody; MAMs, mitochondria-associated 
membranes; MAP1LC3/LC3B, microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MFN2, 
mitofusin 2; OPA1, OPA1 mitochondrial dynamin like GTPase; PAb, polyclonal 
antibody; PtdIns3K, class III phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; PtdIns3P, 
phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate; SD, standard deviation; TEM, transmission 
electron microscopy; TOMM20, translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; 
ULK1, unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; MEF, mouse embryonic 
fibroblast; WT, wildtype.

DOI: 10.1080/15548627.2020.1749490
PMCID: PMC8143230
PMID: 32249716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interests.
