1. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2020 Jun;24(6):589-599. doi: 
10.1080/14728222.2020.1751818. Epub 2020 Apr 19.

New insights into targeting hepatic cystogenesis in autosomal dominant 
polycystic liver and kidney disease.

Barten TRM(1)(2), Bernts LHP(1)(2), Drenth JPH(1)(2), Gevers TJG(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Radboud University, Medical 
Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(2)European Reference Network Hepatological Diseases (ERN RARE-LIVER), Hamburg, 
Germany.

Introduction: Polycystic liver disease (PLD) is a rare disease defined by the 
growth of hepatic cysts and occurs either isolated or as an extrarenal 
manifestation of polycystic kidney disease. While surgery has been the mainstay 
in treatment of symptomatic PLD, recently discovered regulatory mechanisms 
affecting hepatic cystogenesis provide potential new therapies to reduce hepatic 
cyst burden.Areas covered: This review summarizes intracellular pathways and 
therapeutic targets involved in hepatic cystogenesis. While drugs that target 
cAMP, mTOR and bile acids were evaluated in clinical trials, investigation in 
autophagy, Wnt and miRNA signaling pathways are still in the pre-clinical phase. 
Recent epidemiological data present female hormones as a promising therapeutic 
target. Additionally, therapeutic advances in renal cystogenesis are reviewed 
for their potential application in treatment of hepatic cysts.Expert opinion: 
Further elucidation of the pathophysiology of hepatic cystogenesis is needed to 
provide additional targets and improve the efficacy of current treatments. The 
most promising therapeutic target in PLD is the female hormone pathway, given 
the increased severity in women and the harmful effects of exogenous estrogens. 
In addition, combining current pharmaceutical and surgical therapies can lead to 
improved outcomes. Lastly, the rarity of PLD creates the need to share expertise 
internationally.

DOI: 10.1080/14728222.2020.1751818
PMID: 32250187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
