1. J Environ Manage. 2020 May 15;262:110347. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2020.110347. 
Epub 2020 Feb 29.

Degradation of metformin in water by TiO(2)-ZrO(2) photocatalysis.

Carbuloni CF(1), Savoia JE(1), Santos JSP(1), Pereira CAA(2), Marques RG(1), 
Ribeiro VAS(1), Ferrari AM(3).

Author information:
(1)Federal University of Technology - Parana, Rua Marcilio Dias, 635, 86812-460, 
Apucarana, Brazil.
(2)State University of Maringa, Av Colombo, 5790, 87020-900, Maringa, Brazil.
(3)Federal University of Technology - Parana, Rua Marcilio Dias, 635, 86812-460, 
Apucarana, Brazil. Electronic address: ana_eq@hotmail.com.

The increasing use of pharmaceutical products also increases their release in 
aquatic environment. These contaminants are considered emerging pollutants, and 
induce adverse ecological and human health effects. The antidiabetic metformin 
is one example that has been detected in the aquatic environment at unusual 
concentrations. This fact indicates that conventional wastewater treatment is 
inefficient on eliminating this compound. Here we show that metformin can be 
effectively removed from water by photocatalysis. We found the optimised 
conditions for pH and concentration of catalyst on the photocatalytic process. 
TiO2 and TiO2-ZrO2 were successful in oxidising metformin under UV radiation 
following a pseudo-first order kinetics. Intermediates of metformin 
photodegradation appeared after photocatalytic treatment. Toxicity analysis 
showed that the degradation products are non-toxic to Lactuca sativa seeds.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2020.110347
PMID: 32250822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.
