1. Acta Biochim Biophys Sin (Shanghai). 2020 Apr 20;52(4):421-429. doi: 
10.1093/abbs/gmaa010.

Systemic hypoxia potentiates anti-tumor effects of metformin in hepatocellular 
carcinoma in mice.

Lin H(1), Zhou W(1)(2), Huang Y(1), Ren M(3), Xu F(1), Wang H(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, 
China.
(2)Agricultural and Health Center, Jiangxi Center for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Nanchang 330006, China.
(3)Medical Laboratory Education Center, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, 
China.

Local hypoxia is a universal phenomenon in most solid tumors. The role of local 
hypoxia in the tumor microenvironment and cancer growth and metastasis has been 
well established. However, the effect of acute systemic hypoxia (exposing the 
whole body to 10% O2 environment) on cancer has not yet been investigated. In 
this study, we investigated the potential effects of acute systemic hypoxia 
itself and in combination with metformin on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) 
growth and metastasis in a mouse model of HCC. Acute systemic hypoxia 
significantly decreased tumor volume and weight in H22 tumor-bearing mice. 
Interestingly, the combined treatment of acute systemic hypoxia and metformin 
showed a more pronounced effect in reducing tumor volume and weight. Moreover, 
acute systemic hypoxia and metformin in combination had a potent inhibitory 
effect on tumor progression. More importantly, the expressions of hypoxia 
response genes including hypoxia-inducible factor-1 α, vascular endothelial 
growth factor, and matrix metalloproteinase 2 were significantly decreased in 
the tumor tissues with combination treatment. Our study demonstrated that acute 
systemic hypoxia repressed tumor progression of the HCC and potentiated the 
anti-tumor activities of metformin. This study supports that combination of 
systemic hypoxia and metformin treatment may represent a novel strategy for HCC.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological 
Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/abbs/gmaa010
PMID: 32250393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
