1. Adv Pharmacol Pharm Sci. 2020 Feb 18;2020:3546597. doi: 10.1155/2020/3546597. 
eCollection 2020.

Formulation and Optimization of Monolithic Fixed-Dose Combination of Metformin 
HCl and Glibenclamide Orodispersible Tablets.

Belayneh A(1), Molla F(2), Kahsay G(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, College of Health Sciences, Debre Markos University, 
Debre Markos, Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmacy, College of Health Sciences, 
Mekelle University, Mekelle, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis and Quality Assurance, School of 
Pharmacy, College of Health Sciences, Mekelle University, Mekelle, Ethiopia.

The treatment of type II DM involves the use of combination of drugs, especially 
at the chronic stage. However, the pill burden of this combination therapy 
combined with swallowing difficulties, occurring at a later stage of DM, has 
been the major challenge for successful treatment outcomes. This study was aimed 
at formulating and optimizing a monolithic fixed-dose combination (FDC) of 
metformin (MET) and glibenclamide (GLB) orodispersible tablets (ODTs) to 
overcome both the pill burden and swallowing problems. The FDC ODTs were 
prepared by the melt granulation technique using polyethylene glycol (PEG) 6000 
as a binding agent and crospovidone as a superdisintegrant. In the preliminary 
study, the effects of sodium lauryl sulphate (SLS), PEG 6000, crospovidone, and 
compression force on friability, disintegration time, and drug release of 
tablets were investigated. The FT-IR studies showed that there were no 
incompatibilities between MET and GLB as well as within excipients. The 
preliminary studies revealed that PEG 6000 and compression force significantly 
affect both the friability and the disintegration time, while SLS and 
crospovidone only affect the disintegration time. Therefore, the effects of PEG 
6000, crospovidone, and compression force were further studied and optimized 
using the central composite design. Accordingly, the most desirable optimal 
values were obtained at 3.82% of PEG 6000, 9.83% of crospovidone, and 10.6 kN 
compression force having a friability of 0.302% and a disintegration time of 
18.7 seconds. From these results, it can be concluded that a monolithic FDC of 
MET and GLB ODTs having adequate mechanical strength and faster disintegration 
time was successfully formulated.

Copyright © 2020 Anteneh Belayneh et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/3546597
PMCID: PMC7094173
PMID: 32259103

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.
