1. Ann Gastroenterol Surg. 2019 Dec 22;4(2):135-141. doi: 10.1002/ags3.12305. 
eCollection 2020 Mar.

Caspase recruitment domain family member 9 expression is a promising biomarker 
in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.

Sekino N(1), Kano M(1), Sakata H(1), Murakami K(1), Toyozumi T(1), Matsumoto 
Y(1), Ryuzaki T(1), Ikeda J(2), Ota M(2), Matsubara H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Frontier Surgery Graduate School of Medicine Chiba University 
Chiba Japan.
(2)Department of Diagnostic Pathology Graduate School of Medicine Chiba 
University Chiba Japan.

AIM: Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is a refractory digestive organ 
cancer that requires better treatment strategies. We have recently reported that 
the antidiabetic drug metformin exerts antitumor effects on ESCC by inhibition 
of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) nuclear translocation. In the present study, 
we focused on caspase recruitment domain family member 9 (CARD9), an essential 
signal adapter in NF-κB activation to examine whether it can be used as a 
prognostic factor in ESCC.
METHODS: We investigated CARD9 expression immunohistochemically in clinical 
samples obtained from 93 patients with ESCC who underwent curative 
esophagectomy. CARD9 expression was analyzed for correlation with 
clinicopathological characteristics and ESCC prognosis. The molecular effects 
were investigated by knocking down ESCC cells. Comprehensive RNA expression 
changes in these ESCC cells were detected by next-generation sequencing (NGS).
RESULTS: High CARD9 expression is significantly correlated with advanced tumor 
depth (P < .001), positive lymph node metastasis (P = .005) and advanced stage 
(P = .001). Kaplan-Meier method and the log-rank test showed that overall 
survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) were significantly poor in the 
high CARD9 expression group (OS: P = .027, DFS: P = .005). Univariate and 
multivariate analysis showed that high CARD9 expression is a significant poor 
prognostic factor for DFS. Cell proliferation and migration were suppressed by 
CARD9 knockdown. NGS detected altered the expression of some RNAs including 
maternally expressed 3 (MEG3).
CONCLUSION: High CARD9 expression is significantly associated with poor 
prognosis. Therefore, CARD9 expression may be a prospective prognostic biomarker 
in ESCC.

© 2019 The Authors. Annals of Gastroenterological Surgery published by John 
Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Japanese Society of 
Gastroenterology.

DOI: 10.1002/ags3.12305
PMCID: PMC7105841
PMID: 32258978

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: Authors declare no 
conflicts of interest for this article.
