1. Biomed Res Int. 2020 Mar 18;2020:1068671. doi: 10.1155/2020/1068671.
eCollection  2020.

Metformin's Effects on Apoptosis of Esophageal Carcinoma Cells and Normal 
Esophageal Epithelial Cells: An In Vitro Comparative Study.

Peng J(#)(1), Jing X(#)(1), Wu J(2), Hong D(1), Hu X(1), Wang Q(1), Hu H(1), Cai 
X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Shantou 
University Medical College, Shantou, Guangdong 515041, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Jieyang People's Hospital, Jieyang, Guangdong 
522010, China.
(#)Contributed equally

The effect of metformin on human esophageal normal and carcinoma cells remains 
poorly understood. We aim to investigate the different antiproliferation effects 
and underlying distinct molecular mechanisms between these two types of cells. 
Human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cell line, EC109, and normal esophageal 
epithelial cell line, HEEC, were used in the experiment. The cell survival rate 
was determined by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8). Cell apoptosis was analyzed by 
flow cytometry. The mRNA and protein levels of signal transducer and activator 
of transcription 3 (Stat3) were detected by real-time quantitative PCR and 
western blot. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) was added to activate Stat3. The level of 
intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) was assessed by a DCFH-DA 
fluorescent probe. Metformin had more significant inhibitory effects on cell 
proliferation in EC109 cells than HEECs. Metformin induced apoptosis of EC109 
cells in a dose-dependent manner instead of HEECs. The expression of Stat3 in 
both mRNA and protein levels was higher in EC109 cells than HEECs. Further study 
revealed that metformin may attenuate the phosphorylation of the Stat3 and the 
Bcl-2 expression, which was restored by IL-6 partly in EC109 cells but not 
HEECs. On the contrary, metformin increased the level of ROS in both the cell 
lines, but this intracellular ROS variation had no effect on apoptosis. 
Metformin has different functional roles on the apoptosis in esophageal 
carcinoma cells and normal esophageal cells. Therefore, the Stat3/Bcl-2 
pathway-mediated apoptosis underlies the cell-type-specific drug sensitivity, 
suggesting metformin possesses a therapeutic activity and selectivity on 
esophageal cancer.

Copyright Â© 2020 Jianwei Peng et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/1068671
PMCID: PMC7104266
PMID: 32258099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.
