1. Exp Ther Med. 2020 Apr;19(4):2690-2696. doi: 10.3892/etm.2020.8490. Epub 2020 
Feb 4.

Icariin treatment reduces blood glucose levels in type 2 diabetic rats and 
protects pancreatic function.

Li X(1), Wang YX(1), Shi P(1), Liu YP(1), Li T(1), Liu SQ(1), Wang CJ(1), Wang 
LX(2)(3), Cao Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Drug Clinical Trial Management, The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao 
University, Qingdao, Shandong 266003, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Liaocheng People's Hospital, Liaocheng, Shandong 
252000, P.R. China.
(3)School of Biomedical Sciences, Charles Sturt University, Wagga Wagga, New 
South Wales 2650, Australia.

Icariin, a flavonoid isolated from traditional oriental herbal medicines, has 
been demonstrated to exhibit several health benefits in animal models and in 
humans. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of Icariin on 
hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in rats. A model of diabetes 
was established in 50 Sprague Dawley rats using a high-sugar and high-fat diet 
and peritoneal injection of streptozotocin. Diabetic rats were divided into five 
groups: Diabetic control; metformin; and rats treated with three different doses 
of Icariin, 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg. Body weight and blood glucose levels were 
measured, and serum adiponectin levels, expression of phospho-AMP mediated 
protein kinase (p-AMPK) and glucose transporter isoform 4 (GLUT-4) were measured 
using ELISA, Realtime PCR and western blotting, respectively. Diabetic rats 
without drug treatment exhibited reduced body weight, increased blood glucose 
levels and decreased the number of islets. In T2DM rats treated with 10 or 20 
mg/kg Icariin, the blood glucose levels were reduced, whereas serum adiponectin 
levels were not affected. Additionally, the mRNA and protein expression levels 
of p-AMPK and GLUT-4 protein were increased in the T2DM rats treated with 
Icariin. In conclusion, in the diabetes rat model, Icariin alleviated the 
severity of diabetes, and the effects may be associated with reduction of 
hyperglycemia by activating an AMPK/GLUT-4 pathway.

Copyright: Â© Li et al.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2020.8490
PMCID: PMC7086278
PMID: 32256750
