1. Am J Transl Res. 2020 Mar 15;12(3):825-836. eCollection 2020.

CXCR3 confers sorafenib resistance of HCC cells through regulating metabolic 
alteration and AMPK pathway.

Ren Y(1), Gu YK(2), Li Z(1), Xu GZ(1), Zhang YM(1), Dong MX(1), Wang Y(1), Zhou 
XB(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Henan Province People's Hospital, Zhengzhou 
University People's Hospital Zhengzhou, Henan, China.
(2)Henan University Kaifeng, Henan, China.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Henan Province People's Hospital, Zhengzhou 
University People's Hospital Zhengzhou, Henan, China.

Currently, the acquired resistance of the hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) 
first-line therapeutic agent-sorafenib (SOR) remains a major challenge for HCC 
management. Recent evidence suggested the association between CXCL/CXCRs 
chemokines and chemotherapy resistant in cancer cells. Hence, exploring the 
internal mechanism of CXCRs involved in SOR resistance will help to improve the 
efficacy of HCC. SOR-resistant HCC cells (Huh7-SOR) were established through 
escalating concentration of SOR. Glucose consumption, lactate production, 
intracellular ATP levels and oxygen consumption of HCC cells were determined by 
using the associated detected kits. Effects of CXCR3 on metabolic phenotype of 
HCC cells, AMPK pathway activity and adipocytokines were demonstrated by 
knocking down CXCR3 expression with the CXCR3 siRNA technique combined with qPCR 
and western blot. During the indicated procedure, SOR-resistant HCC 
cells-Huh7-SOR presented EMT-like morphologic change and underwent glycolysis to 
OXPHOS switch, representing reduced glucose consumption and lactate production, 
but increased oxygen consumption level and intercellular ATP levels. Moreover, 
metabolic alteration in SOR-resistance HCC cells was mediated by CXCR3. 
Mechanistically, CXCR3 induced metabolic alteration in SOR-resistance HCC cells 
through downregulating AMPK pathway activity and lipid peroxidation as well as 
upregulating levels of adipocytokines. The activation of A MPK pathway with 
metformin achieved the sensitization of HCC to SOR treatment in vivo. These 
findings unravel the association between metabolic alteration and SOR-resistance 
in HCC cells and demonstrate an important role of CXCR3 in the development of 
HCC cells resistance to SOR treatment and a novel mechanism of CXCR3 regulating 
AMPK pathway activity and adipocytokine signaling, lipid peroxidation resulted 
in metabolic alteration during the chemoresistance.

AJTR Copyright Â© 2020.

PMCID: PMC7137055
PMID: 32269715

Conflict of interest statement: None.
