1. Curr Pharm Des. 2020;26(34):4315-4322. doi: 10.2174/1381612826666200408095310.

Clinical Review: Safety and Efficacy Comparison between Sulfonylureas and 
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors as Second-Line Therapies in Type 2 Diabetes 
Mellitus.

Gillani SW(1), Moosvi AF(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Gulf Medical University (GMU), Ajman, United Arab 
Emirates.
(2)PharmD Candidate, Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU), Richmond, Virginia, 
United States.

BACKGROUND: According to the World Health Organization (WHO), diabetes mellitus 
is considered the 7th leading cause of death as of 2016, while almost half of 
all deaths related to high blood glucose occur before the age of 70. According 
to the 2019 American Diabetes Association's (ADA) guidelines, metformin is the 
firstline treatment for patients with Type 2 diabetes. Additional therapy is 
dependent on multiple patient-specific factors, including cardiovascular risks, 
risk of hypoglycemia, metabolic changes, and cost. The objective of this 
systematic review is to analyze variables of interest in Type 2 diabetes 
including fasting blood glucose (FBG), post-prandial blood glucose (PPBG), 
hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), microvascular complications, and cardiovascular outcomes 
in order to determine the shift towards the newer class of medications for type 
2 diabetes.
METHODS: A systematic review was conducted using ScienceDirect as the primary 
source of obtaining articles. This review used PRISMA for reporting and GRACE 
for quality assessment of ten articles. The inclusion criteria for the review 
consisted of patients who were on metformin therapy for a sufficient amount of 
time, as defined by the trial's protocol, and who were then initiated on either 
a sulfonylurea (glipizide or glimepiride) or a DPP-4 inhibitor (saxagliptin or 
linagliptin). The articles included in this review range from 2005-2019 that are 
written in English only. Exclusion criteria for this systematic review were 
articles in which patients were not initially started on metformin therapy, were 
diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes mellitus, and articles that were written in 
languages other than English.
RESULTS: After filtering 50 studies, 10 were selected for meeting the criteria 
of variables of interest. Findings suggested a significant reduction in fasting 
plasma glucose with 154 mg/dL + 4 mg/dL as baseline, decreasing to 132 mg/dL + 4 
mg/dL with the use of glipizide & metformin combination. A similar pattern was 
presented with the use of saxagliptin and metformin in combination, but changes 
were less significant than glipizide. However, hypoglycemic events in patients 
who were taking glipizide with metformin versus saxagliptin with metformin; 
13.4% of patients achieved HbA1c <7% without hypoglycemic events compared to 
22.2% of the patients who achieved an HbA1c of <7% without hypoglycemic events.
CONCLUSION: Despite the higher efficacious characteristics of sulfonylureas in 
lowering HbA1c, due to its reported hypoglycemic effects, DPP-4 inhibitors may 
be considered as a clinically stable choice for second-line therapy after 
completing maximally tolerated doses of metformin. Sulfonylureas are considered 
better than DPP-4 inhibitors for treatment in patients with cardiovascular 
disease history and hypoglycemia.

CopyrightÂ© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612826666200408095310
PMID: 32268860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
