1. Rev Med Liege. 2020 Apr;75(4):233-239.

[Extended indications for antidiabetic agents with cardio-renal protection in 
updated international recommendations for themanagement of at risk patients with 
type2 diabetes].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Scheen AJ(1), Paquot N(2).

Author information:
(1)Service de Diabétologie, Nutrition et Maladies métaboliques et Unité de 
Pharmacologie clinique, CHU Liège, Belgique.
(2)Service de Diabétologie, Nutrition et Maladies métaboliques, CHU Liège, 
Belgique.

The strategy for the management of type 2 diabetes (T2D) has been updated late 
2019-2020 by a group of experts of the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and 
the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD). The indications of 
two pharmacological classes that have demonstrated a cardiovascular and renal 
protection, i.e. sodium-glucose cotransporter type 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) and 
glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1AR), are now extended because of 
the favourable results of recent clinical trials. In patients with T2D at high 
cardiovascular risk (even without previous event, but with indicators of 
atherosclerotic disease), the addition of these antidiabetic agents to metformin 
background therapy is now recommended independently of the glycated haemo¬globin 
(HbA1c) level. For SGLT2i, the prescription may be extended to patients with an 
estimated glomerular filtration rate down to 30 (instead of 60) ml/min/1.73 m², 
in particular in patients with progressive renal disease and albuminuria and in 
patients at risk of heart failure, especially if left ventricular ejection 
fraction is reduced. However, these new proposals could not be applied stricto 
sensu because of strict reimbursement criteria based upon HbA1c currently 
applied in our country.

Publisher: Une actualisation des recommandations pour le traitement du diabète 
de type 2 (DT2) a été publiée par un groupe d’experts au nom de l’American 
Diabetes Association (ADA) et l’European Association for the Study of Diabetes 
(EASD) fin 2019-début 2020. Les indications de deux classes de médicaments qui 
ont démontré une protection cardiovasculaire et rénale, les inhibiteurs des 
sodium-glucose cotransporteurs de type 2 (iSGLT2) et les agonistes des 
récepteurs du glucagon-like peptide-1 (ARGLP-1), ont été élargies au vu des 
résultats favorables des essais cliniques récents. Chez les patients avec DT2 à 
haut risque cardiovasculaire (même sans événement antérieur, mais avec des 
indicateurs de maladie athéromateuse), l’ajout de ces médicaments à la 
metformine est dorénavant recommandé quel que soit le niveau d’hémoglobine 
glyquée (HbA1c). Pour les iSGLT2, la prescription peut être éten¬due jusqu’à un 
débit de filtration glomérulaire de 30 (et non plus 60) ml/min/1,73 m², en 
particulier chez les patients avec insuffisance rénale progressive et 
albuminurie et chez les patients à risque d’insuffisance cardiaque, notamment si 
la fraction d’éjection du ventricule gauche est réduite. Ces nouvelles 
recommandations ne peuvent cependant pas encore être appliquées stricto sensu, 
compte tenu des critères de remboursement basés sur le taux d’HbA1c imposés 
actuellement pour ces médicaments dans notre pays.

PMID: 32267111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
