1. Arch Endocrinol Metab. 2020 May-Jun;64(3):319-325. doi: 
10.20945/2359-3997000000238.

Evaluation of factors affecting sexual dysfunction in female patients with 
diabetes mellitus.

Yenice MG(1), Danacıoğlu YO(1), Mert M(2), Karakaya P(2), Seker KG(1), Akkaş 
F(1), Şimşek A(1), Şahin S(1), Taşçı AI(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Urology, University of Health Sciences, Bakırköy Dr. Sadi Konuk 
Training and Research Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, University of Health Sciences, Bakırköy Dr. Sadi 
Konuk Training and Research Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: Our objective in this study was to evaluate the factors predicting 
female sexual dysfunction (FSD) in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM).
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: The study included 149 women with DM. Sexual function was 
evaluated with the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) questionnaire, in which 
total scores under 26.55 characterized the occurrence of FSD (Group 1 > 26.55, 
Group 2 < 26.55). We recorded the patients' demographic, metabolic, and hormonal 
data. Ophthalmologic, neurologic, and renal complications were also evaluated. 
The antioxidant status of the patients in both groups was determined by 
measuring the activity of the enzymes paraoxonase-1 (PON-1) and arylesterase 
(ARE).
RESULTS: Based on the FSFI scores, 60 patients were allocated to Group 1 (26.6 ± 
12.3) and 89 to Group 2 (22.6 ± 9.5). Group 2 compared with Group 1 had 
significantly (p < 0.05) higher mean concentrations of glycated hemoglobin 
(HbA1c), glucose, triglycerides, and insulin, along with higher rates of 
metformin use, smoking, retinopathy, and nephropathy. The mean serum ARE 
concentrations were significantly lower in Group 2 compared with Group 1 (p = 
0.000), but the mean serum PON-1 concentrations were similar between both groups 
(p = 0.218). On multivariable regression analysis, age, ARE activity, Beck 
Depression Inventory (BDI) score, and menopause were significant independent 
predictors of FSD (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we evaluated the predictive factors determining FSD 
caused by DM. Despite the significant results found in our study, future 
randomized controlled studies with a long follow-up and a larger number of 
patients are required to determine how DM affects FSD.

DOI: 10.20945/2359-3997000000238
PMCID: PMC10522214
PMID: 32267365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: no potential conflict of interest 
relevant to this article was reported.
