1. J Virol. 2020 Jun 1;94(12):e02178-19. doi: 10.1128/JVI.02178-19. Print 2020
Jun  1.

KDM6A-Mediated Expression of the Long Noncoding RNA DINO Causes TP53 Tumor 
Suppressor Stabilization in Human Papillomavirus 16 E7-Expressing Cells.

Sharma S(1)(2), Munger K(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Biochemistry Program, Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Tufts 
University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Department of Developmental, Molecular and Chemical Biology, Tufts University 
School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Biochemistry Program, Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Tufts 
University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA karl.munger@tufts.edu.

Human papillomavirus 16 (HPV16) E7 has long been known to stabilize the tumor 
suppressor TP53. However, the molecular mechanism of TP53 stabilization by HPV16 
E7 has remained obscure, and this stabilization can occur independently of the 
E2F-regulated MDM2 inhibitor p14ARF Here, we report that the damage-induced 
noncoding (DINO) lncRNA (DINOL) is the "missing link" between HPV16 E7 and 
increased TP53 levels. DINO levels are decreased in cells where TP53 is 
inactivated, either by HPV16 E6, by expression of a dominant negative TP53 
minigene, or by TP53 depletion. DINO levels are increased in HPV16 E7-expressing 
cells. HPV16 E7 causes increased DINO expression independently of RB1 
degradation and E2F1 activation. Similar to what is seen with the adjacent 
CDKN1A locus, DINO expression is regulated by the histone demethylase KDM6A. 
DINO stabilizes TP53 in HPV16 E7-expressing cells, and as it is a TP53 
transcriptional target, DINO levels further increase. As with expression of 
other oncogenes, such as adenovirus E1A or MYC, HPV16 E7-expressing cells are 
sensitized to cell death under conditions of metabolic stress, which in the case 
of E7 has been linked to TP53 activation. Consistent with earlier studies, we 
show that HPV16 E7-expressing keratinocytes are highly sensitive to metabolic 
stress induced by starvation or the antidiabetic drug metformin. Sensitivity of 
HPV16 E7-expressing cells to metabolic stress is rescued by DINO depletion. 
Moreover, DINO depletion decreases sensitivity to the DNA damage-inducing 
chemotherapy agent doxorubicin. This work identifies DINO as a critical mediator 
of TP53 stabilization and activation in HPV16 E7-expressing cells.IMPORTANCE 
Viral oncoproteins, including HPV16 E6 and E7, have been instrumental in 
elucidating the activities of cellular signaling networks, including those 
governed by the TP53 tumor suppressor. Our study demonstrates that the long 
noncoding RNA DINO is the long-sought missing link between HPV16 E7 and elevated 
TP53 levels. Importantly, the TP53-stabilizing DINO plays a critical role in the 
cell death response of HPV16 E7-expressing cells to metabolic stress or DNA 
damage.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02178-19
PMCID: PMC7307095
PMID: 32269126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
