1. BMJ Case Rep. 2020 Apr 9;13(4):e231749. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2019-231749.

Hyperandrogenism, insulin resistance and acanthosis nigricans (HAIR-AN 
syndrome): an extreme subphenotype of polycystic ovary syndrome.

O'Brien B(1)(2), Dahiya R(2)(3), Kimble R(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Paediatric and Adolescent Gynaecology, Department of Paediatric Surgery, 
Queensland Children's Hospital, South Brisbane, Queensland, Australia 
drbrookeob@gmail.com.
(2)School of Medicine, The University of Queensland, St Lucia, Queensland, 
Australia.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, Queensland Children's Hospital, South Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia.
(4)Paediatric and Adolescent Gynaecology, Department of Paediatric Surgery, 
Queensland Children's Hospital, South Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(5)Women's and Newborn Services, Royal Brisbane and Woman's Hospital Health 
Service District, Herston, Queensland, Australia.

HAIR-AN-a syndrome of hyperandrogenism (HA), insulin resistance (IR) and 
acanthosis nigricans (AN)-is a specific subphenotype of polycystic ovary 
syndrome (PCOS), and it is seen in almost 5% of all women with hyperandrogenism. 
An adolescent girl aged 11 years old was referred with adrenarche, 
hyperandrogenism and obesity commencing at age 8. Clinical and biochemical 
investigations confirmed significant hyperandrogenism and insulin resistance, 
and a diagnosis of HAIR-AN syndrome was made after exclusion of other 
differential diagnoses. HAIR-AN syndrome is an important diagnosis for the 
adolescent gynaecologist to be aware of, and it requires a multidisciplinary 
approach, including endocrinology input, for optimal management. Weight loss, 
lifestyle modification and combined hormonal pill and metformin are considered 
first-line treatment.

Â© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2020. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2019-231749
PMCID: PMC7167451
PMID: 32276996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.
