1. Transl Clin Pharmacol. 2020 Mar;28(1):43-54. doi: 10.12793/tcp.2020.28.e2.
Epub  2020 Mar 30.

Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of a fixed-dose combination of 
gemigliptin/metformin sustained release 25/500 mg compared to the loose 
combination in healthy male subjects.

Jin X(1), Kim E(1), Huh KY(1), Hwang I(1), Cho JY(1), Yu KS(1), Lee S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine and Hospital, Seoul 03080, Korea.

A fixed-dose combination (FDC) of gemigliptin/metformin can improve the 
medication adherence in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). In this 
study, the pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) profiles of gemigliptin 
and metformin were compared between FDC and the corresponding loose combination 
under fasted and fed states. A two-part, randomized, open label, single-dose, 
two-way crossover study was conducted in healthy male subjects. Under fasted 
(part 1) or fed (part 2) state, 2 FDC tablets of gemigliptin/metformin sustained 
release (SR) 25/500 mg or loose combination with one tablet of gemigliptin 50 mg 
and two tablets of metformin extended release (XR) 500 mg were orally 
administered in each period with a 7-day washout. Serial blood samples were 
collected up to 48 hours to determine the drug concentration and the dipeptidyl 
peptidase 4 (DPP-4) activity. The concentration-time profiles of gemigliptin and 
metformin were similar between FDC and loose combination in both the fasted and 
fed states. Geometric mean ratios and 90% confidence intervals of FDC to loose 
combination for area under the concentration-time curve and maximum plasma 
concentration of gemigliptin and metformin were within the bioequivalence range 
(0.8-1.25) in both states. DPP-4 activity-time profiles of FDC were comparable 
to that of the loose combination, showing similar area under the DPP-4 
inhibition-time curve and maximum DPP-4 inhibition between FDC and loose 
combination, regardless of the fasted or fed state. In conclusion, the PK/PD 
characteristics of gemigliptin and metformin were similar in FDC tablets and 
loose combination both in fasted and fed states.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03355014.

Copyright Â© 2020 Translational and Clinical Pharmacology.

DOI: 10.12793/tcp.2020.28.e2
PMCID: PMC7136079
PMID: 32274380

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: - Authors: Nothing to 
declare - Reviewers: Nothing to declare - Editors: Nothing to declare
