1. Cardiol Rev. 2020 Jul/Aug;28(4):177-189. doi: 10.1097/CRD.0000000000000308.

Cardiovascular Safety and Benefits of Noninsulin Antihyperglycemic Drugs for the 
Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus-Part 1.

Yandrapalli S(1), Jolly G(2), Horblitt A(3), Pemmasani G(1), Sanaani A(1), 
Aronow WS(1), Frishman WH(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Westchester Medical 
Center and New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY.
(2)Division of Cardiology, Loma Linda University Medical Center, Loma Linda, CA.
(3)Division of Cardiology, Tulane Medical Center, New Orleans, LA.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a major contributor to the morbidity and 
mortality associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). With T2DM growing in 
pandemic proportions, there will be profound healthcare implications of CVD in 
person with diabetes. The ideal drugs to improve outcomes in T2DM are those 
having antiglycemic efficacy in addition to cardiovascular (CV) safety, which 
has to be determined in appropriately designed CV outcome trials as mandated by 
regulatory agencies. Available evidence is largely supportive of metformin's CV 
safety and potential CVD risk reduction effects, whereas sulfonylureas are 
either CV risk neutral or are associated with variable CVD risk. Pioglitazone 
was also associated with improved CVD risk in patients with diabetes. The more 
recent antihyperglycemic medications have shown promise with regards to CVD risk 
reduction in T2DM patients at a high CV risk. Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor 
agonists, a type of incretin-based therapy, were associated with better CV 
outcomes and mortality in T2DM patients, leading to the Food and Drug 
Administration approval of liraglutide to reduce CVD risk in high-risk T2DM 
patients. Ongoing and planned randomized controlled trials of the newer drugs 
should clarify the possibility of class effects, and of CVD risk reduction 
benefits in low-moderate CV risk patients. While metformin remains the 
first-line antiglycemic therapy in T2DM, glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor 
agonists should be appropriately prescribed in T2DM patients with baseline CVD 
or in those at a high CVD risk to improve CV outcomes. Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 
inhibitors and sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors are discussed in the 
second part of this review.

DOI: 10.1097/CRD.0000000000000308
PMID: 32282393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
