1. J Cell Mol Med. 2020 May;24(10):5786-5796. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.15241. Epub 2020 
Apr 12.

Metformin suppresses proliferation and invasion of drug-resistant breast cancer 
cells by activation of the Hippo pathway.

Liu J(1)(2), Li J(1)(2), Chen H(1)(2), Wang R(1)(2), Li P(1)(2), Miao Y(1)(2), 
Liu P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Translational Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an 
Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China.
(2)Key Laboratory for Tumor Precision Medicine of Shaanxi Province, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China.

Drug resistance limits the clinical efficacy of breast cancer therapies, and 
overexpression or activation of Yes-associated protein (YAP) is common in 
drug-resistant cancer cells. Thus, inhibition of YAP may reduce resistance to 
anti-cancer drugs. Metformin (MET), a first-line diabetes medication that also 
has anti-tumour activities, induces AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), 
directly phosphorylates YAP and inhibits YAP transcriptional activity. In this 
study, we determined the effect of MET on the proliferation and invasion of 
drug-resistant breast cancer cells and then investigated the underlying 
molecular mechanism. Our in vivo and in vitro experiments indicated that MET 
suppressed breast cancer by an AMPK-independent pathway to decrease YAP nuclear 
localization. In drug-sensitive cells, MET activated the Hippo pathway by 
increasing KIBRA and FRMD6 expression, but this did not occur in drug-resistant 
cells. Scribble (SCRIB), a cell polarity protein, was notably down-regulated in 
tamoxifen- and paclitaxel-resistant breast cancer cells relative to sensitive 
cells. We also found that MET suppressed the proliferation and invasion of 
drug-resistant breast cancer cells by increasing the expression and cell 
membrane localization of SCRIB, which enhanced the interaction of SCRIB with 
MST1 and LATS1, and inhibited YAP nuclear localization and transcriptional 
activity.

Â© 2020 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by 
Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.15241
PMCID: PMC7214175
PMID: 32281270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
