1. Wiad Lek. 2020;73(3):457-461.

Comparison of the effect of dapagliflozin on contrast to standard therapy of the 
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and concomitant obesity, their effect on 
laboratory and anthropometric parameters.

Griadil TI(1), Chopey IV(1), Debreceni KO(1), Hechko MM(1), Mykhalko YO(1), 
Feysa SV(1).

Author information:
(1)State Higher Educational Establishment «Uzhhorod National University», 
Uzhhorod, Ukraine.

OBJECTIVE: The aim: Evaluate clinical and laboratory parameters of the patients 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus and concomitant obesity after a course of 
dapagliflozin treatment and compare with a standard treatment regimen.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Materials and methods: Conducted a comprehensive clinical 
laboratory examination and measurement of the anthropometric parameters of the 
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and concomitant obesity, with subsequent 
statistical calculations.
RESULTS: Results: The data obtained at different stages of the study revealed a 
statistically significant effect of glucose treatment and glycosylated 
hemoglobin (HbA1c). Since the 6th month of dapagliflozin treatment, we have 
shown a tendency to lose weight compared to baseline in this group of patients 
and controls.
CONCLUSION: Conclusions: Type 2 diabetes mellitus and obesity significantly 
increase the risk of developing a number of complications. Complex control and 
effects on clinical laboratory and anthropometric parameters can statistically 
significantly influence the development of the complications, and in this 
context, dapaglifloflozin showed statistically better results than standard 
metformin monotherapy.

PMID: 32285813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
