1. Cell Cycle. 2020 May;19(10):1089-1104. doi: 10.1080/15384101.2020.1743911.
Epub  2020 Apr 14.

Metformin activates AMPK/SIRT1/NF-κB pathway and induces mitochondrial 
dysfunction to drive caspase3/GSDME-mediated cancer cell pyroptosis.

Zheng Z(1), Bian Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Ren G(1), Li G(1).

Author information:
(1)Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Resistant, School of Life 
Sciences, Shandong Normal University, Jinan, China.

Pyroptosis is a form of programmed cell death initiated by inflammasomes and is 
critical for immunity. SIRT1, a NAD+-dependent deacetylase, plays multiple roles 
in inflammatory response and immunity. Metformin can activate SIRT1 to 
participate in different biological processes and exert its anticancer effects. 
However, the mechanism by which metformin activates SIRT1 to drive cancer cell 
pyroptosis has not been reported. In this study, we treated cancer cells with 
metformin for diverse periods of time (0-24 h) and found that cell viability was 
decreased obviously. Interestingly, pyroptosis occurred when cancer cells were 
treated with metformin for the indicated time (4, 8 and 12 h), which was 
elucidated by the cell swelling and bubbles blowing in the membrane. Metformin 
also increased the release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH, an indication of 
pyroptotic cell cytotoxicity) remarkably. The underlying mechanisms were that 
metformin enhanced AMPK/SIRT1 pathway and further increased NF-κB p65 expression 
to stimulate Bax activation and cytochrome c release, triggering caspase3 
cleavage of GSDME, which is a characteristic pyroptotic marker. Depletion of 
SIRT1 inhibited metformin-induced these protein expression, revealing that 
metformin promotes AMPK/SIRT1/NF-κB signaling to drive cancer cell pyroptosis. 
Meantime, metformin induced mitochondrial dysfunction to trigger activation of 
caspase3 and generation of GSDME-N. Moreover, mitochondrial dysfunction 
activated AMPK/SIRT1 pathway to cause pyroptotic death upon metformin treatment. 
This research firstly reveals that metformin as a sensitizer amplifies 
AMPK/SIRT1/NF-κB signaling to induce caspase3/GSDME-mediated cancer cell 
pyroptosis. Induction of cellular pyroptosis by metformin is considered as a 
novel therapeutic option against various cancers.

DOI: 10.1080/15384101.2020.1743911
PMCID: PMC7217368
PMID: 32286137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
