1. Front Oncol. 2020 Mar 31;10:405. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2020.00405. eCollection
2020.

Impact of DPP4 Inhibitors in Survival of Patients With Prostate, Pancreas, and 
Breast Cancer.

Shah C(1), Hong YR(2), Bishnoi R(1), Ali A(1), Skelton WP 4th(3), Dang LH(4), 
Huo J(2), Dang NH(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of 
Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States.
(2)Department of Health Services Research, Management and Policy, College of 
Public Health and Health Professions, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, 
United States.
(3)Division of Medical Oncology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, University of 
South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States.
(4)Ochsner Medical Center, Baton Rouge, LA, United States.

Background: Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP4), a cell surface protein, exhibits a 
crucial role in tumor biology and regulation of the immune system. We aim to 
study the impact of DPP4 inhibitors (DPP4i) in patients with prostate cancer 
(PRC), pancreatic cancer (PC) and breast cancer (BC). Methods: Using the SEER 
and Medicare linked database, we identified patients with PRC or PC or BC with 
coexisting type II diabetes mellitus between 2007 and 2015. Patients were 
classified into four groups: (1) not on either DPP4i or metformin (reference 
group), this group included patient that were on anti-diabetic agents other than 
metformin or DPP4i (2) metformin only, (3) DPP4i only, and (4) DPP4i along with 
metformin (combination group). Overall survival (OS) analyses were performed 
using SAS®, version 9.4. Results: We identified 15,330 patients with PRC, 5,359 
patients with PC and 16,085 patients with BC. In PRC cohort, patients on DPP4i 
had significant survival advantage with HR 0.77 (95% CI: 0.64-0.93), P = 0.005 
when compared to the reference group. Patients taking metformin also had 
significant OS benefit with HR 0.87 (95% CI: 0.81-0.93), P < 0.0001 when 
compared to the reference group. However, in BC cohort, OS did not favor the 
patients taking DPP4i with HR 1.07 (95% CI: 0.93-1.25, P = 0.33). Similarly, in 
PC cohort, OS was indifferent for the patients on DPP4i with HR 1.07 (95% CI: 
0.93-1.24, P = 0.68). Upon subgroup analyses of PRC patients, the survival 
favored the group taking DPP4i, irrespective of stage, use of chemotherapy, 
androgen-deprivation therapy, and prostatectomy or radiation therapy. 
Conclusions: DPP4i seems to improve survival in PRC patients; however, not in PC 
or BC patients. While the exact mechanism involved remains to be elucidated, a 
prospective clinical trial would help to confirm these findings.

Copyright © 2020 Shah, Hong, Bishnoi, Ali, Skelton, Dang, Huo and Dang.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2020.00405
PMCID: PMC7136489
PMID: 32296640
