1. Nanotechnology. 2020 Jul 24;31(30):305709. doi: 10.1088/1361-6528/ab89d1. Epub
 2020 Apr 16.

Tumor microenvironment-responsive polymer with chlorin e6 to interface hollow 
mesoporous silica nanoparticles-loaded oxygen supply factor for boosted 
photodynamic therapy.

Wang X(1), Ding X, Yu B, Zhang X, Shen Y, Cong H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical Materials and Engineering, College of Materials 
Science and Engineering, Qingdao University, Qingdao 266071, People's Republic 
of China.

Cancer treatment has always been a big problem for people. With the application 
of photodynamic therapy, the problem has been alleviated. However, the problem 
of tumor hypoxia affecting photodynamic therapy has been waiting to be resolved. 
Therefore, we report here that a redox nanocarrier (called RN) is prepared by 
hollow mesoporous silica sphere (HMSNs) and a redox-responsive polymer ligand. 
The nanocarrier is loaded with metformin and catalase, and the polymer is linked 
to the photosensitizer chlorin e6 (Ce6). Metformin inhibits the mitochondrial 
respiration of cancer cells, reducing the activity of cancer cells and 
increasing the oxygen concentration required for photodynamic therapy. Not only 
the effect of photodynamic therapy is enhanced, but also the effect of 
chemotherapy is increased to achieve super additive treatment. These RNs exhibit 
not only low cytotoxicity but also high biocompatibility in vitro experiments. 
In vitro Ce6 release studies have shown a higher release in the presence of 
glutathione (GSH). Confocal microscopy can further indicate that the 
nanoparticles are carried to the area around the nucleus of the cancer cells. In 
addition, treatment with a mouse tumor model demonstrated that RN has an 
effective therapeutic effect on tumors.

DOI: 10.1088/1361-6528/ab89d1
PMID: 32299065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
