1. Br J Haematol. 2020 Nov;191(3):396-404. doi: 10.1111/bjh.16635. Epub 2020 Apr 
17.

Statin and cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors improve survival in newly diagnosed 
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma: a large population-based study of 4913 subjects.

Smyth L(1)(2), Blunt DN(1)(3), Gatov E(4), Nagamuthu C(4), Croxford R(4), 
Mozessohn L(1), Cheung MC(1)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Odette Cancer Centre, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Department of Haematology, St. Vincent's University Hospital, Dublin, 
Ireland.
(3)Department of Haematology, Royal Adelaide Hospital, Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(4)ICES, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(5)Division of Hematology/Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, University 
of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.

Preclinical data suggests anti-lymphoma potential for statins, metformin and 
cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors. We performed a retrospective 
population-based study of all adults aged ≥66 years diagnosed with diffuse large 
B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) or transformed lymphoma treated with a rituximab 
containing regimen, between 2005 and 2015 in Ontario, Canada. Using 
administrative databases, we assessed the impact of medication exposures, prior 
to chemo-immunotherapy, on lymphoma survival. Cox regression analyses, 
controlling for sociodemographic factors and comorbidities, examined the 
relationship between medication exposure and survival. In total, 4913 patients 
were treated with curative intent (median age 75 years, 51% male) and 52·2% died 
at a median of 1 year from treatment initiation (67% due to DLBCL). In the year 
prior to commencing treatment, 45·7% received statins, 16·3% metformin, and 
25·0% a COX-2 inhibitor. Adjusting for confounders, exposure to statin and COX-2 
inhibitors prior to chemo-immunotherapy independently conferred a survival 
advantage: statin exposure for 30 days (hazard ratio [HR] 0·97, 95% confidence 
interval [CI] 0·96-0·98), 180 days (HR 0·84, 95% CI 0·80-0·89) and 365 days (HR 
0·71, 95% CI 0·63-0·79) and COX-2 inhibitor exposure for 30 days (HR 0·95, 95% 
CI 0·95-0·98), 180 days (HR 0·76, 95% CI 0·66-0·86) and 365 days (HR 0·57, 95% 
CI 0·43-0·74). Metformin had no significant impact. This population-based study 
found a dose-related survival benefit of exposure to statins and COX-2 
inhibitors prior to chemo-immunotherapy for newly diagnosed DLBCL.

© 2020 British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.16635
PMID: 32304100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
