1. J Ethnopharmacol. 2020 Jul 15;257:112863. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.112863. Epub
 2020 Apr 14.

Agriophyllum oligosaccharides ameliorate hepatic injury in type 2 diabetic db/db 
mice targeting INS-R/IRS-2/PI3K/AKT/PPAR-γ/Glut4 signal pathway.

Bao S(1), Wu YL(2), Wang X(3), Han S(4), Cho S(5), Ao W(6), Nan JX(7).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory for Traditional Chinese Korean Medicine of Jilin Province, 
College of Pharmacy, Yanbian University, Yanji, Jilin Province, 133002, PR 
China; Medical College, Inner Mongolia University for Nationalities, Tongliao, 
028000, PR China.
(2)Key Laboratory for Traditional Chinese Korean Medicine of Jilin Province, 
College of Pharmacy, Yanbian University, Yanji, Jilin Province, 133002, PR 
China.
(3)Department of Medicines and Foods, Tongliao Vocational College, Tongliao, 
028000, PR China.
(4)Basic Medical College, North China University of Science and Technology, 
Tangshan, 063210, PR China.
(5)College of Traditional Mongolian Medicine, Inner Mongolia University for 
Nationalities, Tongliao, 028000, PR China.
(6)College of Traditional Mongolian Medicine, Inner Mongolia University for 
Nationalities, Tongliao, 028000, PR China. Electronic address: 
wuliji@imun.edu.cn.
(7)Key Laboratory for Traditional Chinese Korean Medicine of Jilin Province, 
College of Pharmacy, Yanbian University, Yanji, Jilin Province, 133002, PR 
China; Clinical Research Center, Yanbian University Hospital, Yanji, Jilin 
Province, 133002, PR China. Electronic address: jxnan@ybu.edu.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Agriophyllum squarrosum (L.) Moq. is a 
traditional Mongol medicine generally used to treat diabetes.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the protective effects and potential mechanisms of 
Agriophyllum oligosaccharides (AOS) on liver injury in type 2 diabetic db/db 
mice.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The db/db mice were divided into the model group (Model), 
metformin group (MET), high-dose AOS group (HAOS), and low-dose AOS group 
(LAOS). Nondiabetic littermate control db/m mice were used as the normal control 
group (Control). Mice in AOS groups were treated with AOS (380 or 750 mg/kg) 
daily, for 8 weeks. At 8 weeks, blood samples were collected to detect lipid and 
enzyme parameters concerning hepatic function, including alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), total protein (TP), 
albumin (ALB), globulin (GLB), triglyceride (TG), total cholesterol (TC), and 
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). Random blood glucose (RBG) test, 
oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), and oral maltose tolerance test (OMTT) were 
also conducted. Microscopy was used to observe morphological changes in the 
liver of AOS-treated groups. Real-time PCR was used to detect the mRNA 
expression, including insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS-2), phosphatidylinositol 
3 kinase (PI3K), protein kinase B (AKT), peroxisome proliferator-activated 
receptor (PPAR)-γ, insulin receptor (INS-R), and Glut4. Furthermore, western 
blotting was performed to identify proteins, including phosphorylation of IRS-2 
(p-IRS-2), PI3K, p-AKT, PPAR-γ, INS-R, and Glut4. Hepatic protein expression of 
p-IRS-2, PI3K, p-AKT, PPAR-γ, INS-R, and Glut4 was observed using 
immunohistochemical staining.
RESULTS: AOS treatment significantly decreased RBG, OGTT, and OMTT in mice, as 
well as serum ALT and AST activities. AOS groups demonstrated significantly 
higher expressions of p-IRS-2, PI3K, PPAR-γ, p-AKT, INS-R, and Glut4 protein and 
IRS-2, PI3K, AKT, PPAR-γ, INS-R, and Glut4 mRNA in the liver tissue of db/db 
mice; the degeneration and necrosis of hepatocytes and formation of collagen 
fibres markedly reduced, improving the structural disorder in the liver.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that AOS could protect the liver in type 2 
diabetes, in part by activating insulin in the INS-R/IRS2/PI3K/AKT/Glut4/PPAR-γ 
signal pathway, facilitating hepatocyte proliferation, and further reducing the 
blood glucose levels.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.112863
PMID: 32302715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.
