1. Klin Onkol. 2020 Spring;33(2):107-113. doi: 10.14735/amko2020107.

Metformin in Oncology - How Far Is Its Repurposing as an Anticancer Drug?

[Article in English]

Pácal L, Kaňková K.

BACKGROUND: Metformin is the most commonly used antidiabetic drug with a 
plethora of proven metabolic and cardiovascular beneficial effects and 
exceptional safety profile. On top of the established metabolic effects, 
retrospective epidemiologic evidence shows that metformin use is associated with 
decreased cancer risk and/or improved disease prognosis in diabetic cancer 
patients on metformin compared to those treated with different antidiabetic 
drugs. This is a sound argument for eventual repurposing metformin as an 
adjuvant drug in oncology; however, evidence-based data are currently needed to 
establish this. Metformin is a biguanide that in the context of type 2 diabetes 
primarily targets the liver. Metformin inhibits oxidative phosphorylation which 
leads to the suppression of gluconeogenesis and causes decrease of blood glucose 
concentration. Mechanisms responsible for metformin anti-neoplastic effect have 
been investigated extensively, and key events seem to centralize around its 
ability to induce intracellular energetic stress with subsequent changes of 
metabolism resulting in cytostatic or cytotoxic action. Large clinical 
experience with metformin in the treatment of diabetes together with its 
plausible effects on different cancer cell types initiated a number of clinical 
trials that tested the hypothesis that metformin might have a beneficial effect 
in the treatment of cancer.
PURPOSE: The aim of this review is to compile recent advances in our 
understanding of metformin antineoplastic effects and to give a summary of the 
results of recent clinical trials of metformin for treatment of different cancer 
types.

DOI: 10.14735/amko2020107
PMID: 32303131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
