1. Minerva Cardiol Angiol. 2023 Feb;71(1):70-76. doi: 
10.23736/S2724-5683.21.05703-3. Epub 2021 Aug 2.

Four-year outcomes of a single-center experience with coronary 
everolimus-eluting bioresorbable scaffolds.

Contorni F(1), Cameli M(2), Iadanza A(2), Carrera A(2), Guerrieri G(2), Barbati 
R(2), Sinicropi G(2), Bacci E(2), Baccani B(2), Fineschi M(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medical Biotechnologies, University of 
Siena, Siena, Italy - francescocontorni01@gmail.com.
(2)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medical Biotechnologies, University of 
Siena, Siena, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Bioresorbable scaffolds (BRS) have been introduced to overcome the 
limitations of drug-eluting stents and the ABSORB (Everolimus-Eluting BRS, 
Abbott Vascular, Santa Clara, CA, USA) was the most extensively tested. 
Nevertheless, major RCTs reported higher rates of target lesion failures and BRS 
thrombosis at 3 years follow-up, bringing to the withdrawing of the device from 
the market. It has been suggested that a better lesions selection and an 
optimized implantation technique could mitigate the displayed adverse results.
METHODS: Consecutive patients undergoing BRS implantation were included in this 
observational, single center study. Clinical follow-up was conducted up to 4 
years. Endpoint of interest was the target lesion failure (TLF), a composite 
outcome including cardiac death, target vessel myocardial infarction and target 
lesion revascularization.
RESULTS: A total of 62 patients with a mean age of 55±8.5 years were analyzed of 
which 70.9% presented with an acute coronary syndrome and 59.6% with myocardial 
infarction. A total of 100 lesions were treated and 51.6% were complex (B2/C). 
Predilatation was performed in all the case, post-dilatation in 74.1%. All the 
target vessel reference diameter (RVD) were >2.5 mm (average RVD 3.2±0.24 mm). 
At 4 years, the rate for TLF was 6.9%. Subgroup's analysis did not show 
significative differences among groups although consistently higher event rates 
were found for RVD <2.5 mm (12.6% vs. 6.4%, P=0.5), BRS overlapping (11.8% vs. 
5%, P=0.2) and ticagrelor instead of clopidogrel on top of cardioaspirin (9.1% 
vs. 3%, P=0.2).
CONCLUSIONS: This small-sized real-world registry displays lower rates of 
clinical events during long-term follow-up in respect to previous studies. The 
avoidance of implantation in small vessels, inclusion of acute myocardial 
infarction and extensive performance of BRS post-dilatation could explain the 
observed better results. Long-term outcomes of the ongoing ABSORB IV Trial are 
needed to confirm this data.

DOI: 10.23736/S2724-5683.21.05703-3
PMID: 34338484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
