1. Cell Biol Toxicol. 2023 Jun;39(3):719-728. doi: 10.1007/s10565-021-09633-w.
Epub  2021 Aug 3.

FK506-binding protein 2 (FKBP13) inhibit Bax-induced apoptosis in Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae (yeast).

Akintade DD(1)(2), Chaudhuri B(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Clinical and Applied Sciences, Leeds Beckett University, Leeds, LS1 
3HE, UK. D.Akintade@leedsbeckett.ac.uk.
(2)Leicester School of Pharmacy, De Montfort University, Leicester, LE1 9BH, UK. 
D.Akintade@leedsbeckett.ac.uk.
(3)Leicester School of Pharmacy, De Montfort University, Leicester, LE1 9BH, UK.

FK506-binding protein 2 (FKBP13) is a part of the immunophilin protein family 
involved in immunoregulation. It is also believed to operate as a factor in 
membrane cytoskeletal framework and as an ER chaperone. FKBP2 (FKBP13) and FKBP1 
(FKBP12), known as immunophilins, are binding proteins for rapamycin and FK506, 
which are immunosuppressive drugs. It was suggested that immunophilin-like and 
immunophilin proteins play significant roles in regulating intracellular calcium 
and protein folding/sorting, acting as molecular chaperones. Within the 15 
mammalian FKBPs known, FKBP1 is merely the only one proven to form complexes 
with rapamycin and FK506 in the cytosol and facilitate their T cells 
immunosuppressive effects, FKBP2 is a luminal protein of the endoplasmic 
reticulum (ER) and is reported to take part in protein folding in the ER. 
However, little is known about FKBP2 link with apoptosis (either as a pro or 
anti-apoptotic protein). In this study, FKPB2 protein was co-expressed with the 
pro-apoptotic protein Bax after a yeast-based human hippocampal cDNA library 
screening. The yeast strain carrying the Bax gene was transformed with an 
episomal 2-micron plasmid that encodes the HA-tagged FKBP2 gene. The resultant 
strain would allow co-expression of Bax and FKBP2 in yeast cells. The results 
presented here show that a protein involved in protein folding can play a role 
in protecting yeast cell from Bax-induced apoptosis.

Â© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10565-021-09633-w
PMCID: PMC10406727
PMID: 34342774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.
