1. Br J Haematol. 2023 May;201(3):530-541. doi: 10.1111/bjh.17938. Epub 2021 Nov 
25.

Atorvastatin restores imbalance of cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4)(+) T cells 
in immune thrombocytopenia in vivo and in vitro.

Xu P(1), Zhao Y(1), Yu T(1), Yu Y(1), Ni X(1), Wang H(1), Sun L(1), Han P(1), 
Wang L(1), Sun T(1), Liu X(1), Zhou H(1), Peng J(1)(2), Hou M(1)(2)(3), Hou 
Y(1), Xu M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Qilu Hospital, Cheeloo College of Medicine, 
Shandong University, Jinan, China.
(2)Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Immunohematology, Qilu Hospital, 
Cheeloo College of Medicine, Shandong University, Jinan, China.
(3)Leading Research Group of Scientific Innovation, Department of Science and 
Technology of Shandong Province, Qilu Hospital, Cheeloo College of Medicine, 
Shandong University, Jinan, China.

Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is an autoimmune haemorrhagic disease, in which 
the overactivation of T cells is crucial in the pathogenesis. Atorvastatin (AT), 
a lipid-lowering medicine, has shown promising immunomodulatory effects in 
certain inflammatory conditions. However, the immunoregulatory role of AT in ITP 
remains elusive. To investigate the effect of AT in the treatment of ITP, 
cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4)+ T cells were isolated from patients with ITP 
and cultured with different dosages of AT. We found that AT significantly 
inhibited cell proliferation, led to cell cycle arrest, induced apoptosis, and 
repressed the activation of CD4+ T cells in vitro. ITP murine models were then 
established, and results showed that AT treatment led to faster recovery of the 
platelet count to normal and exhibited comparable immunomodulatory function. 
Furthermore, we found the phosphorylation of mammalian target of rapamycin 
(mTOR), protein kinase B (AKT) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), 
as well as activation of rat sarcoma virus (RAS) were all reduced dramatically 
after AT treatment in vitro. In conclusion, our present study demonstrated that 
AT could reinstate the functions of CD4+ T cells by inhibiting the excessive 
activation, proliferation, and survival of CD4+ T cells in ITP via the 
RAS/mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)/ERK and the 
mTOR/phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K)/AKT pathway. Therefore, we propose 
that AT could be used as a potential therapeutic option for ITP by restoring the 
over-activated cellular immunity.

Â© 2021 British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.17938
PMID: 34825359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
