1. Autophagy. 2023 Jan;19(1):3-23. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2021.2021495. Epub 2022 
Jan 9.

The exploitation of host autophagy and ubiquitin machinery by Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis in shaping immune responses and host defense during infection.

Shariq M(1), Quadir N(1)(2), Alam A(1), Zarin S(1)(2), Sheikh JA(3), Sharma 
N(1)(2), Samal J(1), Ahmad U(1), Kumari I(1), Hasnain SE(4)(5), Ehtesham NZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Inflammation Biology and Cell Signaling Laboratory, National Institute of 
Pathology-ICMR, Ansari Nagar West, New Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Molecular Medicine, Jamia Hamdard-Institute of Molecular 
Medicine, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, India.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, School of Chemical and Life Sciences, Jamia 
Hamdard, New Delhi, India.
(4)Department of Biochemical Engineering and Biotechnology, Indian Institute of 
Technology, Delhi (IIT-D), New Delhi, India.
(5)Department of Life Science, School of Basic Sciences and Research, Sharda 
University, Greater Noida, India.

Intracellular pathogens have evolved various efficient molecular armaments to 
subvert innate defenses. Cellular ubiquitination, a normal physiological process 
to maintain homeostasis, is emerging one such exploited mechanism. Ubiquitin 
(Ub), a small protein modifier, is conjugated to diverse protein substrates to 
regulate many functions. Structurally diverse linkages of poly-Ub to target 
proteins allow enormous functional diversity with specificity being governed by 
evolutionarily conserved enzymes (E3-Ub ligases). The Ub-binding domain (UBD) 
and LC3-interacting region (LIR) are critical features of 
macroautophagy/autophagy receptors that recognize Ub-conjugated on protein 
substrates. Emerging evidence suggests that E3-Ub ligases unexpectedly protect 
against intracellular pathogens by tagging poly-Ub on their surfaces and 
targeting them to phagophores. Two E3-Ub ligases, PRKN and SMURF1, provide 
immunity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tb). Both enzymes conjugate K63 
and K48-linked poly-Ub to M. tb for successful delivery to phagophores. 
Intriguingly, M. tb exploits virulence factors to effectively dampen 
host-directed autophagy utilizing diverse mechanisms. Autophagy receptors 
contain LIR-motifs that interact with conserved Atg8-family proteins to modulate 
phagophore biogenesis and fusion to the lysosome. Intracellular pathogens have 
evolved a vast repertoire of virulence effectors to subdue host-immunity via 
hijacking the host ubiquitination process. This review highlights the 
xenophagy-mediated clearance of M. tb involving host E3-Ub ligases and 
counter-strategy of autophagy inhibition by M. tb using virulence factors. The 
role of Ub-binding receptors and their mode of autophagy regulation is also 
explained. We also discuss the co-opting and utilization of the host Ub system 
by M. tb for its survival and virulence.Abbreviations: APC: anaphase promoting 
complex/cyclosome; ATG5: autophagy related 5; BCG: bacille Calmette-Guerin; C2: 
Ca2+-binding motif; CALCOCO2: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CUE: 
coupling of ubiquitin conjugation to ER degradation domains; DUB: 
deubiquitinating enzyme; GABARAP: GABA type A receptor-associated protein; HECT: 
homologous to the E6-AP carboxyl terminus; IBR: in-between-ring fingers; IFN: 
interferon; IL1B: interleukin 1 beta; KEAP1: kelch like ECH associated protein 
1; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; LGALS: galectin; LIR: 
LC3-interacting region; MAPK11/p38: mitogen-activated protein kinase 11; 
MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAP3K7/TAK1: 
mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 7; MAPK8/JNK: mitogen-activated 
protein kinase 8; MHC-II: major histocompatibility complex-II; MTOR: mechanistic 
target of rapamycin kinase; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NFKB1/p50: 
nuclear factor kappa B subunit 1; OPTN: optineurin; PB1: phox and bem 1; PE/PPE: 
proline-glutamic acid/proline-proline-glutamic acid; PknG: 
serine/threonine-protein kinase PknG; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein 
ligase; RBR: RING-in between RING; RING: really interesting new gene; RNF166: 
RING finger protein 166; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SMURF1: SMAD specific E3 
ubiquitin protein ligase 1; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of 
interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TAX1BP1: Tax1 binding protein 1; TBK1: 
TANK binding kinase 1; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; TRAF6: TNF receptor 
associated factor 6; Ub: ubiquitin; UBA: ubiquitin-associated; UBAN: 
ubiquitin-binding domain in ABIN proteins and NEMO; UBD: ubiquitin-binding 
domain; UBL: ubiquitin-like; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1.

DOI: 10.1080/15548627.2021.2021495
PMCID: PMC9809970
PMID: 35000542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).
