1. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2023;63(23):6536-6546. doi: 
10.1080/10408398.2022.2034734. Epub 2022 Feb 3.

Muscle hypertrophy induced by N-3 PUFA supplementation in absence of exercise: a 
systematic review of randomized controlled trials.

López-Seoane J(1)(2), Jiménez SL(3), Del Coso J(3), Pareja-Galeano H(4).

Author information:
(1)ImFINE Research Group, Department of Health and Human Performance, Faculty of 
Physical Activity and Sports Sciences-INEF, Universidad Politécnica De Madrid, 
Madrid, Spain.
(2)Red Española de Investigación en Ejercicio Físico y Salud (EXERNET), Madrid, 
Spain.
(3)Centre for Sport Studies, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, Fuenlabrada, Madrid, 
Spain.
(4)Department of Physical Education, Sport and Human Movement, Autonomous 
University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain.

The use of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFA) has been studied in 
physically active population, however, there is a lack of information about the 
effects of n-3 PUFA supplementation on people with a sedentary behavior or who 
are undergoing a period of limb immobilization. This systematic review aims to 
examine the effect of n-3 PUFA on lean mass and muscle protein synthesis (MPS) 
in absence of physical training. The PubMed, Web of Science, MEDLINE, CINAHL and 
SPORTDiscus databases were searched following the PRISMA guidelines. Only 
randomized controlled trials, at least single blind, performed with sedentary 
humans were considered. Seven studies on a total of 192 individuals were 
included. Five of the six studies which measured changes in skeletal muscle 
volume and mass showed higher values with n-3 PUFA. Only two studies measured 
skeletal muscle protein expression. Both showed beneficial effects of 
supplementation in muscle protein fractional synthesis rate (FSR), while no 
effect of n-3 PUFA was observed for mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) and 
kinase protein (Akt). In addition, ribosomal protein S6 kinase 1 (p70s6k) 
improved with n-3 PUFA only in one study. Finally, the two studies which 
measured the skeletal muscle gene expression observed no effect of 
supplementation.

DOI: 10.1080/10408398.2022.2034734
PMID: 35112608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
