1. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 2023 Apr;37(2):413-420. doi:
10.1007/s10557-022-07320-4.  Epub 2022 Feb 12.

Branched-Chain Amino Acid Metabolism in the Failing Heart.

Karwi QG(1)(2), Lopaschuk GD(3).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Research Centre, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, T6G 2S2, 
Canada.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, College of Medicine, University of Diyala, 
Diyala, Iraq.
(3)Cardiovascular Research Centre, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, T6G 2S2, 
Canada. gary.lopaschuk@ualberta.ca.

Branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) are essential amino acids which have critical 
roles in protein synthesis and energy metabolism in the body. In the heart, 
there is a strong correlation between impaired BCAA oxidation and contractile 
dysfunction in heart failure. Plasma and myocardial levels of BCAA and their 
metabolites, namely branched-chain keto acids (BCKAs), are also linked to 
cardiac insulin resistance and worsening adverse remodelling in the failing 
heart. This review discusses the regulation of BCAA metabolism in the heart and 
the impact of depressed cardiac BCAA oxidation on cardiac energy metabolism, 
function, and structure in heart failure. While impaired BCAA oxidation in the 
failing heart causes the accumulation of BCAA and BCKA in the myocardium, recent 
evidence suggested that the BCAAs and BCKAs have divergent effects on the 
insulin signalling pathway and the mammalian target of the rapamycin (mTOR) 
signalling pathway. Dietary and pharmacological interventions that enhance 
cardiac BCAA oxidation and limit the accumulation of cardiac BCAAs and BCKAs 
have been shown to have cardioprotective effects in the setting of ischemic 
heart disease and heart failure. Thus, targeting cardiac BCAA oxidation may be a 
promising therapeutic approach for heart failure.

Â© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10557-022-07320-4
PMID: 35150384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
