1. Nutr Neurosci. 2023 Mar;26(3):217-227. doi: 10.1080/1028415X.2022.2033045.
Epub  2022 Feb 14.

CNS serotonin content mediating food deprivation-enhanced learning is regulated 
by hemolymph tryptophan concentration and autophagic flux in the pond snail.

Totani Y(1), Nakai J(1), Hatakeyama D(2), Dyakonova VE(3), Lukowiak K(4), Ito 
E(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tokushima Bunri University, Tokushima, 
Japan.
(3)Koltzov Institute of Developmental Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, 
Moscow, Russia.
(4)Hotchkiss Brain Institute, University of Calgary, AB, Canada.
(5)Graduate Institute of Medicine, School of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical 
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

Nutritional status affects cognitive function in many types of organisms. In the 
pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis, 1 day of food deprivation enhances taste aversion 
learning ability by decreasing the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamin; 5-HT) content 
in the central nervous system (CNS). On the other hand, after 5 days of food 
deprivation, learning ability and the CNS 5-HT concentration return to basal 
levels. How food deprivation leads to alterations of 5-HT levels in the CNS, 
however, is unknown. Here, we measured the concentration of the 5-HT precursor 
tryptophan in the hemolymph and CNS, and demonstrated that the CNS tryptophan 
concentration was higher in 5-day food-deprived snails than in non-food-deprived 
or 1-day food-deprived snails, whereas the hemolymph tryptophan concentration 
was not affected by the duration of food deprivation. This finding suggests the 
existence of a mediator of the CNS tryptophan concentration independent of food 
deprivation. To identify the mediator, we investigated autophagic flux in the 
CNS under different food deprivation conditions. We found that autophagic flux 
was significantly upregulated by inhibition of the tropomyosin receptor kinase 
(Trk)-Akt-mechanistic target of rapamycin complexâ€‰1 (MTORC1) pathway in the CNS 
of 5-day food-deprived snails. Moreover, when autophagy was inhibited, the CNS 
5-HT content was significantly downregulated in 5-day food-deprived snails. Our 
results suggest that the hemolymph tryptophan concentration and autophagic flux 
in the CNS cooperatively regulate learning ability affected by different 
durations of food deprivation. This mechanism may underlie the selection of 
behaviors appropriate for animal survival depending on the degree of nutrition.

DOI: 10.1080/1028415X.2022.2033045
PMID: 35156560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
