1. Cell Biol Toxicol. 2023 Oct;39(5):2113-2131. doi: 10.1007/s10565-022-09699-0. 
Epub 2022 Feb 26.

ATGL deficiency aggravates pressure overload-triggered myocardial hypertrophic 
remodeling associated with the proteasome-PTEN-mTOR-autophagy pathway.

Han X(1), Zhang YL(1), Lin QY(2), Li HH(3), Guo SB(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Beijing Key Laboratory of Cardiopulmonary 
Cerebral Resuscitation, Beijing Chaoyang Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, 100020, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, First 
Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical University, Dalian, 116011, China.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Beijing Key Laboratory of Cardiopulmonary 
Cerebral Resuscitation, Beijing Chaoyang Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, 100020, China. hhli1995@yahoo.com.
(4)Department of Emergency Medicine, Beijing Key Laboratory of Cardiopulmonary 
Cerebral Resuscitation, Beijing Chaoyang Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, 100020, China. shubinguo@126.com.

Persistent myocardial hypertrophy frequently leads to heart failure (HF). 
Intramyocardial triacylglycerol (TAG) accumulation is closely related with 
cardiac remodeling and abnormal contractile function. Adipose triglyceride 
lipase (ATGL), a key enzyme in TAG metabolism, regulates cardiac function. 
However, its associated molecular pathways have not been fully defined. Here, 
cardiac hypertrophy and HF were induced in wild-type (WT) or ATGL knockout (KO) 
mice through transverse aortic constriction (TAC) for up to 4 weeks. TAC in WT 
mice significantly reduced cardiac function and autophagy while enhancing left 
ventricular hypertrophy, interstitial fibrosis, inflammatory response, 
superoxide generation, and cardiomyocyte apoptosis, accompanied with 
upregulation of the proteasome activity, reduction of PTEN level and activation 
of AKT-mTOR signaling, and these effects were further aggravated in ATGL KO 
mice. Interestingly, ATGL KO-mediated cardiac dysfunction and remodeling were 
markedly reversed by proteasome inhibitor (epoxomicin) or autophagic activator 
(rapamycin), but accelerated by PTEN inhibitor (VO-OHpic) or autophagy inhibitor 
3-MA. Mechanistically, ATGL KO upregulated proteasome expression and activity, 
which in turn mediates PTEN degradation leading to activation of AKT-mTOR 
signaling and inhibition of autophagy, thereby enhancing hypertrophic remodeling 
and HF. In conclusion, ATGL KO contributes to TAC-induced cardiac dysfunction 
and adverse remodeling probably associated with the 
proteasome-PTEN-mTOR-autophagy pathway. Therefore, modulation of this pathway 
may have a therapeutic effect potential for hypertrophic heart disease. 
TAC-induced downregulation of ATGL results in increased proteasome (β1i/β2i/β5i) 
activity, which in turn promotes degradation of PTEN and activation of AKT-mTOR 
signaling and then inhibits autophagy and ATP production, thereby leading to 
cardiac hypertrophic remodeling and dysfunction. Conversely, blocking proteasome 
activity or activating autophagy attenuates these effects.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10565-022-09699-0
PMCID: PMC10547847
PMID: 35218467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.
