1. J Chemother. 2023 Apr;35(2):95-103. doi: 10.1080/1120009X.2022.2045826. Epub 
2022 Mar 3.

BEZ235 reduction of cisplatin resistance on wild-type EGFR non-small cell lung 
cancer cells.

Wang R(1)(2), Li A(2)(3), Liu J(2), Fang M(2), Zhu Y(2), Huang J(2), Liu Y(2), 
Huo L(2), You Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, the First Affiliated 
Hospital of Anhui Medical University, Hefei, China.
(2)Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, First Affiliated Hospital, Anhui 
University of Science & Technology (Huainan First People's Hospital), Huainan, 
China.
(3)Medical School, Anhui University of Science & Technology, Huainan, China.

Cisplatin, as a first-line chemotherapy drug for advanced wild-type epidermal 
growth factor receptor (wtEGFR) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), often loses 
effectiveness because of acquired drug resistance. We found that 
ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM), ataxia-telangiectasia and Rad3-related 
(ATR) and DNA-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs) of DNA 
repair kinases and signal transduction molecules, protein kinase B (AKT)/target 
mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), were significantly phosphorylated in 
cisplatin-resistant wtEGFR NSCLC cell lines (H358R and A549R) than in their 
parental cells. Also, BEZ235 (dual phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)/mTOR 
inhibitor) significantly decreased the phosphorylation levels of these 
kinases/proteins, as detected by Western blot analysis. In H358R and A549R 
cells, the results of indirect immunofluorescence, single-cell gel 
electrophoresis, flow cytometry, methylthiazolyldiphenyl-tetrazolium bromide, 
clone formation assay, and scratch healing experiment showed that BEZ235 
enhanced cisplatin-induced DNA damage and cell apoptosis, and effectively 
inhibited cellular proliferation/migration when combined with cisplatin. The 
data indicated that the abnormal activation of ATM/ATR/DNA-PKcs kinases and 
AKT/mTOR pathway might induce wtEGFR NSCLC cell resistance to cisplatin. The 
effects of the combination of BEZ235 and cisplatin suggested that BEZ235 should 
be considered as a combination therapy for patients with cisplatin-resistant 
wtEGFR NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1080/1120009X.2022.2045826
PMID: 35238281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
