1. Autophagy. 2023 Jan;19(1):54-74. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2022.2059170. Epub 2022
 Apr 10.

Identification of HPCAL1 as a specific autophagy receptor involved in 
ferroptosis.

Chen X(1)(2)(3), Song X(3), Li J(3), Zhang R(3), Yu C(3), Zhou Z(3), Liu J(1), 
Liao S(2), Klionsky DJ(4), Kroemer G(5)(6)(7), Liu J(1)(2), Tang D(3), Kang 
R(3).

Author information:
(1)DAMP Lab, The Third Affiliated Hospital, Guangzhou Medical University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(2)Guangzhou Municipal and Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Protein 
Modification and Degradation, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Affiliated 
Cancer Hospital & Institute of Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, 
Guangdong, China.
(3)Department of Surgery, UT Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
(4)Life Sciences Institute and Department of Molecular, Cellular and 
Developmental Biology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(5)Centre de Recherche des Cordeliers, Equipe labellisée par la Ligue contre le 
cancer, Université de Paris, Sorbonne Université, INSERM U1138, Institut 
Universitaire de France, Paris, France.
(6)Metabolomics and Cell Biology Platforms, Gustave Roussy Cancer Campus, 
Villejuif, France.
(7)Pôle de Biologie, Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou, AP-HP, Paris, France.

Selective macroautophagy/autophagy maintains cellular homeostasis through the 
lysosomal degradation of specific cellular proteins or organelles. The 
pro-survival effect of selective autophagy has been well-characterized, but the 
mechanism by which it drives cell death is still poorly understood. Here, we use 
a quantitative proteomic approach to identify HPCAL1 (hippocalcin like 1) as a 
novel autophagy receptor for the selective degradation of CDH2 (cadherin 2) 
during ferroptosis. HPCAL1-dependent CDH2 depletion increases susceptibility to 
ferroptotic death by reducing membrane tension and favoring lipid peroxidation. 
Site-directed mutagenesis aided by bioinformatic analyses revealed that the 
autophagic degradation of CDH2 requires PRKCQ (protein kinase C theta)-mediated 
HPCAL1 phosphorylation on Thr149, as well as a non-classical LC3-interacting 
region motif located between amino acids 46-51. An unbiased drug screening 
campaign involving 4208 small molecule compounds led to the identification of a 
ferroptosis inhibitor that suppressed HPCAL1 expression. The genetic or 
pharmacological inhibition of HPCAL1 prevented ferroptosis-induced tumor 
suppression and pancreatitis in suitable mouse models. These findings provide a 
framework for understanding how selective autophagy promotes ferroptotic cell 
death.Abbreviations: ANXA7: annexin A7; ARNTL: aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear 
translocator like; CCK8: cell counting kit-8; CDH2: cadherin 2; CETSAs: cellular 
thermal shift assays; CPT2: carnitine palmitoyltransferase 2; DAMP, 
danger/damage-associated molecular pattern; DPPH: 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl; 
DFO: deferoxamine; EBNA1BP2: EBNA1 binding protein 2; EIF4G1: eukaryotic 
translation initiation factor 4 gamma 1; FBL: fibrillarin; FKBP1A: FKBP prolyl 
isomerase 1A; FTH1: ferritin heavy chain 1; GPX4: glutathione peroxidase 4; 
GSDMs: gasdermins; HBSS: Hanks' buffered salt solution; HMGB1: high mobility 
group box 1; HNRNPUL1: heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U like 1; HPCAL1: 
hippocalcin like 1; H1-3/HIST1H1D: H1.3 linker histone, cluster member; IKE: 
imidazole ketone erastin; KD: knockdown; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; LIR: 
LC3-interacting region; MAGOH: mago homolog, exon junction complex subunit; 
MAP1LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MDA: 
malondialdehyde; MLKL: mixed lineage kinase domain like pseudokinase; MPO: 
myeloperoxidase; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; OE: 
overexpressing; OSTM1: osteoclastogenesis associated transmembrane protein 1; 
PRKC/PKC: protein kinase C; PRKAR1A: protein kinase cAMP-dependent type I 
regulatory subunit alpha; PRDX3: peroxiredoxin 3; PTGS2: 
prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SLC7A11: 
solute carrier family 7 member 11; SLC40A1: solute carrier family 40 member 1; 
SPTAN1: spectrin alpha, non-erythrocytic 1; STS: staurosporine; UBE2M: ubiquitin 
conjugating enzyme E2 M; ZYX: zyxin.

DOI: 10.1080/15548627.2022.2059170
PMCID: PMC9809962
PMID: 35403545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).
