1. Reprod Sci. 2023 Jan;30(1):135-144. doi: 10.1007/s43032-022-00937-8. Epub 2022
 Apr 14.

Melatonin Increases Proliferation and Decreases Apoptosis of GC-1 spg Cells by 
Upregulating the Expression of circTec.

Xu C(1), Yang H(2), Li C(2), Wu Z(2), Ma Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Reproductive Medical Center, the Second Nanning People's 
Hospital, No. 13 Dancun Road, Nanning, 530031, China. 
jirongmei539828578@163.com.
(2)Department of Reproductive Medical Center, the Second Nanning People's 
Hospital, No. 13 Dancun Road, Nanning, 530031, China.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Wuxiang Hospital of Nanning Second 
People's Hospital, Nanning, 530031, China.

Melatonin has been shown to be beneficial for the motility of human sperm, 
although its mechanism remains to be uncovered. Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have 
been shown to regulate cellular function in many diseases. However, there has 
been no relevant research on the effect of melatonin on sperm circRNAs. In this 
study, we aimed to explore the changes in circRNAs after melatonin treatment of 
GC-1 spg cells and identify key functional circRNAs. The results showed that 
melatonin enhanced the proliferation and reduced the apoptosis of GC-1 spg 
cells. A total of 1423 circRNAs were found to be significantly differentially 
expressed between groups with and without melatonin treatment. Of these 
circRNAs, 702 were upregulated and 721 were downregulated. circTec was one of 
the upregulated circRNAs. Suppressing the expression of circTec significantly 
reduced cell proliferation and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling 
pathway activation but promoted melatonin-treated GC-1 spg cell apoptosis. In 
conclusion, melatonin increased the expression of circTec to exert its 
physiological effects on GC-1 spg cells, possibly by activating the mTOR 
signaling pathway. These results enhance our understanding of the biological 
function of circTec and its regulation by melatonin in spermatogenesis and 
infertility.

Â© 2022. Society for Reproductive Investigation.

DOI: 10.1007/s43032-022-00937-8
PMID: 35426037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
