1. Autophagy. 2023 Jan;19(1):338-351. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2022.2065617. Epub
2022  Jun 26.

Autophagy profiling in single cells with open source CellProfiler-based image 
analysis.

Schüssele DS(1), Haller PK(1)(2), Haas ML(1), Hunter C(1)(2), Sporbeck K(1)(2), 
Proikas-Cezanne T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Interfaculty Institute of Cell Biology, Eberhard Karls University Tübingen, 
Tübingen, Germany.
(2)International Max Planck Research School 'From Molecules to Organisms', Max 
Planck Institute for Developmental Biology and Eberhard Karls University 
Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.

Single cell-based analysis of macroautophagy/autophagy is largely achieved 
through the use of fluorescence microscopy to detect autophagy-related proteins 
that associate with autophagic membranes and therefore can be quantified as 
fluorescent puncta. In this context, an automated analysis of the number and 
size of recognized puncta is preferable to a manual count, because more reliable 
results can be generated in a short time. Here we present a method for open 
source CellProfiler software-based analysis for quantitative autophagy 
assessments using GFP-tagged WIPI1 (WD repeat domain, phosphoinositide 
interacting 1) images acquired with Airyscan or confocal laser-scanning 
microscopy. The CellProfiler protocol is provided as a ready-to-use software 
pipeline, and the creation of this pipeline is detailed in both text and video 
formats. In addition, we provide CellProfiler pipelines for endogenous 
SQSTM1/p62 (sequestosome 1) or intracellular lipid droplet (LD) analysis, 
suitable to assess forms of selective autophagy. All protocols and software 
pipelines can be quickly and easily adapted for the use of alternative autophagy 
markers or cell types, and can also be used for high-throughput 
purposes.Abbreviations: AF Alexa Fluor ATG autophagy related BafA1 bafilomycin 
A1 BSA bovine serum albumin DAPI 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole DMEM Dulbecco's 
modified Eagle's medium DMSO dimethyl sulfoxide EDTA ethylenediaminetetraacetic 
acid EBSS Earle's balanced salt solution FBS fetal bovine serum GFP green 
fluorescent protein LD lipid droplet LSM laser scanning microscope MAP1LC3B 
microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta MTOR mechanistic target of 
rapamycin kinase PBS phosphate-buffered saline PIK3C3/VPS34 phosphatidylinositol 
3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3 SQSTM1 sequestosome 1 TIFF tagged image file 
format U2OS U-2 OS cell line WIPI WD repeat domain, phosphoinositide 
interacting.

DOI: 10.1080/15548627.2022.2065617
PMCID: PMC9809960
PMID: 35435815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflicts of interest was reported 
by the authors.
