1. Autophagy. 2023 Feb;19(2):379-387. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2022.2062112. Epub
2022  Apr 18.

Acetylation in the regulation of autophagy.

Xu Y(1), Wan W(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Basic Biology, Hunan First Normal University, Changsha, Hunan, 
China.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, and Department of Thoracic Surgery of Sir Run Run 
Shaw Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 
China.

Post-translational modifications, such as phosphorylation, ubiquitination and 
acetylation, play crucial roles in the regulation of autophagy. Acetylation has 
emerged as an important regulatory mechanism for autophagy. Acetylation 
regulates autophagy initiation and autophagosome formation by targeting core 
components of the ULK1 complex, the BECN1-PIK3C3 complex, and the LC3 lipidation 
system. Recent studies have shown that acetylation occurs on the key proteins 
participating in autophagic cargo assembly and autophagosome-lysosome fusion, 
such as SQSTM1/p62 and STX17. In addition, acetylation controls autophagy at the 
transcriptional level by targeting histones and the transcription factor TFEB. 
Here, we review the current knowledge on acetylation of autophagy proteins and 
their regulations and functions in the autophagy pathway with focus on recent 
findings.Abbreviations : ACAT1: acetyl-CoA acetyltransferase 1; ACSS2: acyl-CoA 
synthetase short chain family member 2; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; ATG: 
autophagy-related; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; 
CCAR2/DBC1: cell cycle and apoptosis regulator 2; BECN1: beclin 1; CMA: 
chaperone-mediated autophagy; CREBBP/CBP: CREB binding protein; EP300/p300: E1A 
binding protein p300; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GSK3: 
glycogen synthase kinase 3; HDAC6: histone deacetylase 6; HSPA8/HSC70: heat 
shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 8; KAT2A/GCN5: lysine acetyltransferase 
2A; KAT2B/PCAF: lysine acetyltransferase 2B; KAT5/TIP60: lysine 
acetyltransferase 5; KAT8/MOF: lysine acetyltransferase 8; LAMP2A: lysosomal 
associated membrane protein 2A; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 
light chain 3; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NBR1: NBR1 
autophagy cargo receptor; OPTN: optineurin; PD: Parkinson disease; PE: 
phosphatidylethanolamine; PIK3C3/VPS34: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic 
subunit type 3; PKM2: pyruvate kinase M1/2; PtdIns3P: 
phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate; PTM: post-translational modification; 
RB1CC1/FIP200: RB1 inducible coiled-coil 1; RUBCN/Rubicon: rubicon autophagy 
regulator; RUBCNL/Pacer: rubicon like autophagy enhancer; SIRT1: sirtuin 1; 
SNAP29: synaptosome associated protein 29; SNARE: soluble N-ethylamide-sensitive 
factor attachment protein receptor; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STX17: syntaxin 
17; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TP53/p53: tumor protein p53; TP53INP2/DOR: 
tumor protein p53 inducible nuclear protein 2; UBA: ubiquitin-associated; ULK1: 
unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; VAMP8: vesicle associated membrane 
protein 8; WIPI2: WD repeat domain, phosphoinositide interacting 2.

DOI: 10.1080/15548627.2022.2062112
PMCID: PMC9851266
PMID: 35435793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).
