1. Cardiovasc Interv Ther. 2023 Jan;38(1):55-63. doi: 10.1007/s12928-022-00862-2.
 Epub 2022 Apr 27.

Early vascular healing of ultra-thin strut polymer-free sirolimus-eluting stents 
in acute coronary syndrome: USUI-ACS study.

Matsuhiro Y(1), Egami Y(1), Okamoto N(1), Kusuda M(1), Sakio T(1), Nohara H(1), 
Sugae H(1), Kawanami S(1), Kawamura A(1), Ukita K(1), Nakamura H(1), Yasumoto 
K(1), Tsuda M(1), Matsunaga-Lee Y(1), Yano M(1), Nishino M(2), Tanouchi J(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Osaka Rosai Hospital, 1179-3, Nagasone-cho, 
Sakai-city, Osaka, 591-8025, Japan.
(2)Division of Cardiology, Osaka Rosai Hospital, 1179-3, Nagasone-cho, 
Sakai-city, Osaka, 591-8025, Japan. mnishino@osakah.johas.go.jp.

Ultra-thin strut polymer-free sirolimus-eluting stent (UPF-SES) have two novel 
characteristics, ultra-thin strut and polymer-free coating, which have the 
potential to achieve early re-endotherialization. However, a little is known 
whether early vascular healing of UPF-SES can be achieved in patients with acute 
coronary syndrome (ACS). The aim of this study was to evaluate the vascular 
healing after an implantation of UPF-SES in patients with ACS using optical 
coherence tomography (OCT) at 3 months after the stent implantation. From 
September 2020 and January 2021, a total of 31 consecutive patients presenting 
with ACS who underwent OCT-guided percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and 
3 month follow-up OCT examination were enrolled in the USUI-ACS study. The 
endpoints of this study were neointimal strut coverage, malapposition, and mean 
neointimal hyperplasia (NIH) thickness at 3 month follow-up. Over a mean 
follow-up of 91 days after the initial PCI, the follow-up OCT was examined. The 
median percentage of covered struts was 98.4% and malapposed struts 0%, and the 
mean NIH thickness was 80 μm. UPF-SES exhibited an excellent early vascular 
healing at 3 months in patients with ACS.

© 2022. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japanese Association of 
Cardiovascular Intervention and Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1007/s12928-022-00862-2
PMCID: PMC9045471
PMID: 35477831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.
