1. Autophagy. 2023 Jan;19(1):204-223. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2022.2065618. Epub
2022  May 4.

Abnormal triaging of misfolded proteins by adult neuronal ceroid 
lipofuscinosis-associated DNAJC5/CSPα mutants causes lipofuscin accumulation.

Lee J(1), Xu Y(1), Saidi L(1), Xu M(2), Zinsmaier K(3), Ye Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive 
and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(2)National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences, National Institutes of 
Health, Rockville, MD, USA.
(3)Departments of Neuroscience and Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of 
Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA.

Mutations in DNAJC5/CSPα are associated with adult neuronal ceroid 
lipofuscinosis (ANCL), a dominant-inherited neurodegenerative disease featuring 
lysosome-derived autofluorescent storage materials (AFSMs) termed lipofuscin. 
Functionally, DNAJC5 has been implicated in chaperoning synaptic proteins and in 
misfolding-associated protein secretion (MAPS), but how DNAJC5 dysfunction 
causes lipofuscinosis and neurodegeneration is unclear. Here we report two 
functionally distinct but coupled chaperoning activities of DNAJC5, which 
jointly regulate lysosomal homeostasis: While endolysosome-associated DNAJC5 
promotes ESCRT-dependent microautophagy, a fraction of perinuclear and 
non-lysosomal DNAJC5 mediates MAPS. Functional proteomics identifies a 
previously unknown DNAJC5 interactor SLC3A2/CD98hc that is essential for the 
perinuclear DNAJC5 localization and MAPS but dispensable for microautophagy. 
Importantly, uncoupling these two processes, as seen in cells lacking SLC3A2 or 
expressing ANCL-associated DNAJC5 mutants, generates DNAJC5-containing AFSMs 
resembling NCL patient-derived lipofuscin and induces neurodegeneration in a 
Drosophila ANCL model. These findings suggest that MAPS safeguards 
microautophagy to avoid DNAJC5-associated lipofuscinosis and 
neurodegeneration.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACTB: actin beta; AFSM: 
autofluorescent storage materials; ANCL: adult neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis; 
Baf. A1: bafilomycin A1; CLN: ceroid lipofuscinosis neuronal; CLU: clusterin; 
CS: cysteine string domain of DNAJC5/CSPα; CUPS: compartment for unconventional 
protein secretion; DN: dominant negative; DNAJC5/CSPα: DnaJ heat shock protein 
family (Hsp40) member C5; eMI: endosomal microautophagy; ESCRT: endosomal 
sorting complex required for transport; GFP: green fluorescent protein; 
HSPA8/HSC70: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 8; INCL: infant neuronal 
ceroid lipofuscinosis; JNCL: juvenile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis; KO: 
knockout; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; LAPTM4B: lysosomal 
protein transmembrane 4 beta; LN: linker domain of DNAJC5/CSPα; MAPS: 
misfolding-associated protein secretion; mCh/Ch: mCherry; mCi/Ci: mCitrine; 
MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NCL: neuronal ceroid 
lipofuscinosis; PPT1: palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1; PQC: protein quality 
control; SBP: streptavidin binding protein; SGT: small glutamine-rich 
tetratricopeptide repeat; shRNA: short hairpin RNA; SLC3A2/CD98hc: solute 
carrier family 3 member 2; SNCA/α-synuclein: synuclein alpha; TMED10: 
transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 10; UV: ultraviolet; VPS4: vacuolar 
protein sorting 4 homolog; WT: wild type.

DOI: 10.1080/15548627.2022.2065618
PMCID: PMC9809949
PMID: 35506243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).
