1. Tissue Barriers. 2023 Jan 2;11(1):2069966. doi: 10.1080/21688370.2022.2069966.
 Epub 2022 May 3.

The therapeutic prospect of zinc oxide nanoparticles in experimentally induced 
diabetic nephropathy.

Abd El-Baset SA(1), Mazen NF(1), Abdul-Maksoud RS(2), Kattaia AAA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Histology and Cell Biology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Zagazig University, Zagazig Egypt.
(2)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Zagazig University, 
Zagazig Egypt.

Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is the most frequent cause of end-stage renal failure. 
Zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnO-NPs) are promising antidiabetic agents. Our aim 
was to evaluate the prospective efficacy of ZnO-NPs in treating DN in 
streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Rats were randomly dispersed into three 
sets: control group, DN group and DN + ZnO-NPs group. ZnO-NPs were given at a 
dose of 10 mg/kg/day by oral gavage for 4 weeks. Urine and blood samples were 
processed for biochemical analyses. Kidney samples were managed for light and 
electron microscopy studies. Immune histochemical staining of P53, aquaporin11 
(AQP11) and mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) were performed. Gene analyses 
of nephrin, podocin, beclin-1, LC3 and p62 were done. Administration of ZnO-NPs 
ameliorated the functional and histopathological alterations of the kidney in a 
rat model of diabetic nephropathy. ZnO-NPs retained the constancy of the 
glomerular filtration barrier and restored almost normal renal structure. This 
was confirmed by upregulation of mRNA expression of podocyte markers (nephrin 
and podocin) and AQP11 immune histochemical expression in the renal tubules. The 
beneficial outcomes of ZnO-NPs might be attributed to activation of autophagy 
through inhibiting mTOR signaling pathway. ZnO-NPs enhanced beclin-1 and LC3 
mRNA expressions and reduced p62 mRNA expression. ZnO-NPs also exerted 
anti-apoptotic potential (evidenced by the decrease in p53 immune expression), 
anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant effect [endorsed by suppression of serum 
cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) enzyme activity, tissue nuclear factor kappa beta 
(NF-κB) level and blood hypoxia-inducible factors (HIF-1α) level]. These results 
may point the way to an effective therapy of DN.Abbreviations: AQP11 
Aquaporin11; BUN: Blood urea nitrogen; COX-2: Cyclooxygenase-2; DAB: 3, 
3'-diaminobenzidine; DM: Diabetes mellitus; DN: Diabetic nephropathy; ELISA: 
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; H&E: Hematoxylin & eosin; HIF-1α: 
Hypoxia-inducible factors; iNOS: inducible nitric oxide synthase; LC3: 
Microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; mTOR: Mechanistic target of 
rapamycin; NF-κB: Nuclear factor kappa beta; NPs: Nanoparticles; PAS: Periodic 
acid Schiff; PCR: Polymerase chain reaction; PGE2: Prostaglandin E2; ROS: 
Reactive oxygen species; STZ: Streptozotocin; X ± SEM: Mean ± standard error of 
means; Zn: Zinc; ZnO-NPs: Zinc oxide nanoparticles.

DOI: 10.1080/21688370.2022.2069966
PMCID: PMC9870014
PMID: 35504734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).
