1. Br J Nutr. 2023 Jul 28;130(2):185-201. doi: 10.1017/S0007114522001386. Epub
2022  May 5.

Role of creatine supplementation on the myofibre characteristics and muscle 
protein synthesis of grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idellus).

Tian J(1), Cheng X(1)(2), Yu L(1), Jiang M(1), Gao W(2), Lu X(1), Zhang W(2), 
Wen H(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Freshwater Biodiversity Conservation, the Ministry of 
Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Yangtze River Fisheries Research Institute, 
Chinese Academy of Fishery Sciences, Wuhan, 430223, People's Republic of China.
(2)College of Animal Science, Yangtze University, Jingzhou, People's Republic of 
China.

To assess the role of dietary creatine on myofibre characteristics and protein 
synthesis in muscle, we fed grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idellus, initial body 
weight: 88·47 ± 1·44 g) creatine-supplemented diets (1·84, 5·91, 8·48 and 15·44 
g/kg diet) for 8 weeks. Creatine supplementation did not affect growth 
performance, but significantly increased creatine contents in muscle and liver. 
At 8·48 g/kg, creatine decreased the activities of alanine transaminase and 
aspartate aminotransferase in serum and improved hardness and chewiness of 
muscle due to shorter myofibre mean diameter, higher myofibre density and the 
frequencies of the diameters of classes I and III and collagen content, longer 
sarcomere length and upregulated mRNA levels of slow myosin heavy chains. 
Creatine supplementation upregulated the mRNA expressions of myogenic regulatory 
factors. The 8·48 g/kg creatine-supplemented diet significantly increased the 
contents of protein, total amino acids (AA), essential AA and free flavour AAs 
in muscle, the protein levels of insulin-like growth factor I, myogenic 
differentiation antigen and PPAR-γ coactlvator-1α in muscle and stimulated the 
phosphorylation of target of rapamycin (TOR) pathway in muscle. In summary, 8·48 
mg/kg creatine improved fish health and skeletal muscle growth and increased 
hardness and protein synthesis in muscle of grass carp by affecting myofibre 
characteristics and the TOR signalling pathway. A second-order regression model 
revealed that the optimal dietary creatine supplementation of grass carp ranges 
between 8·48 and 12·04 g/kg.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114522001386
PMID: 35508921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
