1. Autophagy. 2023 Jan;19(1):241-255. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2022.2071381. Epub
2022  May 6.

Proteotoxic stress disrupts epithelial integrity by inducing MTOR sequestration 
and autophagy overactivation.

Cheng X(1)(2), Zhang P(1), Zhao H(2), Zheng H(2), Zheng K(1), Zhang H(2), Zhang 
H(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre of Reproduction, Development and Aging, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of Macau, Taipa, Macau, China.
(2)National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)MoE Frontiers Science Center for Precision Oncology, University of Macau, 
Taipa, Macau SAR, China.

Macroautophagy/autophagy, an evolutionarily conserved degradation system, serves 
to clear intracellular components through the lysosomal pathway. Mounting 
evidence has revealed cytoprotective roles of autophagy; however, the 
intracellular causes of overactivated autophagy, which has cytotoxic effects, 
remain elusive. Here we show that sustained proteotoxic stress induced by loss 
of the RING and Kelch repeat-containing protein C53A5.6/RIKE-1 induces 
sequestration of LET-363/MTOR complex and overactivation of autophagy, and 
consequently impairs epithelial integrity in C. elegans. In 
C53A5.6/RIKE-1-deficient animals, blocking autophagosome formation effectively 
prevents excessive endosomal degradation, mitigates mislocalization of 
intestinal membrane components and restores intestinal lumen morphology. 
However, autophagy inhibition does not affect LET-363/MTOR aggregation in 
animals with compromised C53A5.6/RIKE-1 function. Improving proteostasis 
capacity by reducing DAF-2 insulin/IGF1 signaling markedly relieves the 
aggregation of LET-363/MTOR and alleviates autophagy overactivation, which in 
turn reverses derailed endosomal trafficking and rescues epithelial 
morphogenesis defects in C53A5.6/RIKE-1-deficient animals. Hence, our studies 
reveal that C53A5.6/RIKE-1-mediated proteostasis is critical for maintaining the 
basal level of autophagy and epithelial integrity.Abbreviations: ACT-5: actin 5; 
ACTB: actin beta; ALs: autolysosomes; APs: autophagosomes; AJM-1: apical 
junction molecule; ATG: autophagy related; C. elegans: Caenorhabditis elegans; 
CPL-1: cathepsin L family; DAF: abnormal dauer formation; DLG-1: Drosophila 
discs large homolog; ERM-1: ezrin/radixin/moesin; EPG: ectopic P granule; GFP: 
freen fluorescent protein; HLH-30: helix loop helix; HSP: heat shock protein; 
LAAT-1: lysosome associated amino acid transporter; LET: lethal; LGG-1: LC3, 
GABARAP and GATE-16 family; LMP-1: LAMP (lysosome-associated membrane protein) 
homolog; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NUC-1: abnormal nuclease; 
PEPT-1/OPT-2: Peptide transporter family; PGP-1: P-glycoprotein related; RAB: 
RAB family; RIKE-1: RING and Kelch repeat-containing protein; SLCF-1: solute 
carrier family; SQST-1: sequestosome related; SPTL-1: serine palmitoyl 
transferase family.

DOI: 10.1080/15548627.2022.2071381
PMCID: PMC9809964
PMID: 35521960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).
