1. Br J Pharmacol. 1999 Mar;126(6):1522-30. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0702429.

Cardiovascular effects of rilmenidine, moxonidine and clonidine in conscious 
wild-type and D79N alpha2A-adrenoceptor transgenic mice.

Zhu QM(1), Lesnick JD, Jasper JR, MacLennan SJ, Dillon MP, Eglen RM, Blue DR Jr.

Author information:
(1)Center for Biological Research, Neurobiology Unit, Roche Bioscience, Palo 
Alto, California 94304, USA.

1. We investigated the cardiovascular effects of rilmenidine, moxonidine and 
clonidine in conscious wild-type and D79N alpha2A-adrenoceptor mice. The in 
vitro pharmacology of these agonists was determined at recombinant (human) 
alpha2-adrenoceptors and at endogenous (dog) alpha2A-adrenoceptors. 2. In 
wild-type mice, rilmenidine, moxonidine (100, 300 and 1000 microg kg(-1), i.v.) 
and clonidine (30, 100 and 300 microg kg(-1), i.v.) dose-dependently decreased 
blood pressure and heart rate. 3. In D79N alpha2A-adrenoceptor mice, responses 
to rilmenidine and moxonidine did not differ from vehicle control. 
Clonidine-induced hypotension was absent, but dose-dependent hypertension and 
bradycardia were observed. 4. In wild-type mice, responses to moxonidine (1 mg 
kg(-1), i.v.) were antagonized by the non-selective, non-imidazoline 
alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist, RS-79948-197 (1 mg kg(-1), i.v.). 5. Affinity 
estimates (pKi) at human alpha2A-, alpha2B- and alpha2C-adrenoceptors, 
respectively, were: rilmenidine (5.80, 5.76 and 5.33), moxonidine (5.37, <5 and 
<5) and clonidine (7.21, 7.16 and 6.87). In a [35S]-GTPgammaS incorporation 
assay, moxonidine and clonidine were alpha2A-adrenoceptor agonists 
(pEC50/intrinsic activity relative to noradrenaline): moxonidine (5.74/0.85) and 
clonidine (7.57/0.32). 6. In dog saphenous vein, concentration-dependent 
contractions were observed (pEC50/intrinsic activity relative to noradrenaline): 
rilmenidine (5.83/0.70), moxonidine (6.48/0.98) and clonidine (7.22/0.83). 
Agonist-independent affinities were obtained with RS-79948-197. 7. Thus, 
expression of alpha2A-adrenoceptors is a prerequisite for the cardiovascular 
effects of moxonidine and rilmenidine in conscious mice. There was no evidence 
of I1-imidazoline receptor-mediated effects. The ability of these compounds to 
act as alpha2A-adrenoceptor agonists in vitro supports this conclusion.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0702429
PMCID: PMC1565905
PMID: 10217548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
