1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1999 Apr;359(4):262-71. doi: 
10.1007/pl00005351.

Analysis of the receptor involved in the central hypotensive effect of 
rilmenidine and moxonidine.

Bock C(1), Niederhoffer N, Szabo B.

Author information:
(1)Pharmakologisches Institut der Alber-Ludwigs-Universit√§t, Freiburg, Germany.

The aim of this study was to determine whether alpha2-adrenoceptors or 
imidazoline I1-receptors are responsible for the central sympathoinhibition 
produced by rilmenidine and moxonidine, two clonidine-like antihypertensive 
drugs. Rilmenidine and moxonidine were compared with the indirectly acting 
alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist alpha-methyldopa. Three antagonists were used. 
Yohimbine and SK&F86466 were used as selective alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonists. 
They were compared with efaroxan which is also an alpha2-adrenoceptor 
antagonist, but, in addition, possesses affinity for imidazoline I1-receptors. 
According to some but not all studies, the affinity of efaroxan for I1-receptors 
is much higher than its affinity for alpha2-adrenoceptors. Drugs were 
administered into the cisterna cerebellomedullaris of conscious rabbits by a 
catheter implanted previously under halothane anaesthesia. Rilmenidine (10 
microg kg(-1)), moxonidine (0.3 microg kg(-1)) and alpha-methyldopa (0.4 mg 
kg(-1)) lowered blood pressure and the plasma noradrenaline concentration; the 
degree of sympathoinhibition produced by the three agonists was very similar. 
When injected after the agonists, efaroxan (0.1-14 microg kg(-1); cumulative 
doses), yohimbine (0.4-14 microg kg(-1)) and SK&F86466 (0.4-44 microg kg(-1)) 
counteracted the effects of the agonists on blood pressure and the plasma 
noradrenaline concentration. Efaroxan was about tenfold more potent than 
yohimbine and SK&F86466 at antagonizing the hypotensive effects of 
alpha-methyldopa. Similarly, efaroxan was two- to tenfold more potent than 
yohimbine and SK&F86466 against rilmenidine and moxonidine. Finally, efaroxan 
was about as potent against alpha-methyldopa as against rilmenidine and 
moxonidine. The results confirm previous observations that selective 
alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonists are capable of completely antagonizing effects 
of rilmenidine and moxonidine. The effects of the alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist 
with an additional high affinity for imidazoline I1-receptors, efaroxan, can 
also be explained by blockade of alpha2-adrenoceptors. Efaroxan was more potent 
against rilmenidine and moxonidine than the selective alpha2-adrenoceptor 
antagonists. This was probably due to the fact that the affinity of efaroxan for 
alpha2-adrenoceptors is higher than the affinity of yohimbine and SK&F86466, 
since efaroxan was also the most potent of the three antagonists against the 
indirectly acting alpha2adrenoceptor agonist alpha-methyldopa. The observation 
that efaroxan was equally potent against rilmenidine and moxonidine and against 
alpha-methyldopa suggests that the same receptors were involved in the effects 
of the three agonists, alpha2-adrenoceptors; this observation is not compatible 
with the high I1/alpha2 selectivity of efaroxan and the hypothesis that 
rilmenidine and moxonidine activate I1-receptors, whereas alpha-methyldopa 
activates alpha2-adrenoceptors. Thus, the data do not indicate involvement of I1 
imidazoline receptors in the central sympathoinhibition elicited by rilmenidine 
and moxonidine in rabbits. It is likely that rilmenidine and moxonidine produce 
sympathoinhibition by activating the same receptors which are activated by the 
indirectly acting catecholamine alpha-methyldopa, namely alpha2-adrenoceptors.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00005351
PMID: 10344524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
