1. Proc Soc Exp Biol Med. 1999 Jun;221(2):136-46. doi: 
10.1046/j.1525-1373.1999.d01-67.x.

Inhibition of water permeability in the rat collecting duct: effect of 
imidazoline and alpha-2 compounds.

Kudo LH(1), HÃ©bert CA, Rouch AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

Arginine vasopressin (AVP) increases water permeability in the collecting duct 
of the nephron via activation of adenylyl cyclase. Alpha-2 (alpha2) agonists 
inhibit AVP-stimulated water permeability via binding to alpha2 adrenoceptors 
that have been divided into 3 subtypes- alpha2A, alpha2B, and alpha2C. Some 
biological effects mediated by alpha2 agonists result from nonadrenergic 
imidazoline receptors that exist in the rat kidney. Thus, alpha2-inhibition of 
AVP-stimulated water permeability in the rat collecting duct could be caused by 
imidazoline receptors. The purpose of this study was to test agonists and 
antagonists selective for alpha2 and imidazoline receptors on AVP-stimulated 
water permeability in the rat inner medullary collecting duct (IMCD). Some 
experiments were conducted where water permeability was stimulated by a 
nonhydrolyzable analog of adenosine 3', 5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP). Agonists 
included dexmedetomidine, clonidine, oxymetazoline, agmatine and rilmenidine. 
The latter two are selective imidazoline agonists. Antagonists included 
yohimbine, RX821002, atipamezole, prazosin, WB4101, idazoxan, and BU239. 
Prazosin and WB4101 demonstrate selectivity for the alpha2B and alpha2C 
subtypes, respectively, and oxymetazoline and RX821002 are selective for the 
alpha2A subtype. BU239 is selective for imidazoline receptors. Wistar rat 
terminal IMCDs were isolated and perfused to determine the osmotic water 
permeability coefficient (Pf). All agonists except agmatine inhibited 
AVP-stimulated Pf. Inhibition by rilmenidine indicated a different mechanism of 
action from other agonists. Dose-response data show dexmedetomidine to be the 
most potent inhibitor. Oxymetazoline and clonidine inhibited cAMP-stimulated Pf 
indicating that the mechanism involves postcAMP cellular events. It was reported 
previously that dexmedetomidine inhibits cAMP-stimulated Pf (1). All antagonists 
except prazosin and WB4101 reversed alpha2-inhibition of AVP-stimulated Pf. 
BU239 was effective at 1 microM but not at 100 nM. Results suggest that alpha2A 
adrenoceptors modulate water permeability in the IMCD. The involvement of 
imidazoline receptors is inconclusive.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-1373.1999.d01-67.x
PMID: 10352125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
