1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1999 Jun 21;881:313-31. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb09376.x.

Modulation of MAO activity by imidazoline and guanidine derivatives.

Raasch W(1), Muhle H, Dominiak P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacology, Medical University of LÃ¼beck, Germany. 
raasch@medinf.mu-luebeck.de

I2-binding sites (I2-BS) are attributed to be a regulative site on monoamine 
oxidase (MAO). The in vivo and in vitro effects of various imidazoline and 
guanidine derivatives on MAO activity and on mitochondrial respiration were 
studied. Substances with high affinity for I2-BS (antazoline, idazoxan, and 
cirazoline: IC50 = 20.3, 33.8, and 43.4 microM) had a stronger inhibitory effect 
on MAO activity than did I1-ligands (efaroxan, rilmenidine, clonidine, and 
moxonidine: IC50 = 277, 801, 1,224, and > 10,000 microM). Substances with the 
highest inhibitory effects were BDF8082 (IC50 = 1.7 microM) and 
2-(2-benzofuranyl)-2-imidazoline (BFI; IC50 = 4.0 microM). The enzyme is 
inhibited noncompetitively and is reversible, because its activity is completely 
or partially restored after dialysis. Agmatine, the putative endogenous ligand 
for IBS, also decreased MAO activity (IC50 = 168 microM), whereas its precursor, 
L-arginine, and its metabolite, putrescine, had no effects. In vitro inhibition 
of MAO and mitochondrial respiration by the IBS-ligands tested could not be 
correlated, suggesting no link between the function of the inner and outer 
mitochondrial membrane. MAO activity in vivo was significantly reduced only by 
pargyline (-95%), BDF8082 (-68%), BFI (-43%), and 1-(m-chlorophenyl)-biguanide 
(-28%). Catecholamine content of livers obtained from animals treated with 
different IBS-ligands was consequently increased. In conclusion, the strong 
inhibitory effects of I2 selective imidazoline ligands confirm the existence of 
I2-BS as a regulatory site on MAO.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb09376.x
PMID: 10415932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
