1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1999 Jun 21;881:279-86. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb09370.x.

Central imidazoline- and alpha 2-receptors involved in the cardiovascular 
actions of centrally acting antihypertensive agents.

Head GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Baker Medical Research Institute, Prahran, 
Victoria, Australia. Geoff.Head@baker.edu.au

There has been a continuing and yet unresolved debate concerning the existence 
and contribution of imidazoline receptors to the antihypertensive actions of 
clonidine-like agents. Studies from our laboratory have examined the importance 
of imidazoline receptors and alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the mechanism of action of 
centrally acting antihypertensive drugs. We used conscious rabbits and 
imidazoline and specific alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonists to show that 
second-generation agents rilmenidine and moxonidine act preferentially through 
imidazoline receptors but that alpha 2-adrenoceptors are important for the 
hypotension produced by clonidine and alpha-methyldopa. Using microinjections of 
the imidazoline antagonists into the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) of 
anesthetized rabbits we confirmed the generally held view that this is the major 
site of sympathoinhibitory actions of centrally acting antihypertensive agents. 
However, we also found that alpha 2-adrenoceptors are present in this nucleus 
and appear to be activated as a consequence of imidazoline receptor activation. 
In recent studies using a noradrenergic neurotoxin microinjected into the RVLM 
we found that this treatment selectively blocked the actions of moxonidine but 
did not affect the level of imidazole proteins, suggesting that I1-imidazoline 
receptors may be located presynaptic to the noradrenergic terminal. By contrast, 
clonidine acts directly on the alpha 2-adrenoceptors perhaps located on cell 
bodies in the nucleus. In conclusion, our studies suggest that imidazoline 
receptors and alpha 2-adrenoceptors within the RVLM are important for the 
antihypertensive actions of clonidine-like drugs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb09370.x
PMID: 10415926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
