1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1999 Jun 21;881:161-70. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb09355.x.

Identification of imidazoline-receptor binding sites in cortex and medulla of 
the bovine adrenal gland. Colocalization with MAO-A and MAO-B.

King PR(1), Gundlach AL, Louis WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Austin and Repatriation 
Medical Centre, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia. paulk@austin.unimelb.edu.au

The distribution and relative densities of imidazoline-receptor binding sites 
(I-RBS) in bovine adrenal gland were determined using [3H]clonidine, 
[3H]2-(2-benzofuranyl)-2-imidazoline ([3H]2-BFI), and [3H]rilmenidine. In light 
of strong evidence that I-RBS and monoamine amine oxidase enzymes are linked, 
the selective radioligands [3H]RO41-1049 and [3H]RO19-6327 were used to label 
the distribution of MAO-A and -B enzymes, respectively. [3H]Clonidine (12 nM) 
labeled sites in two discrete regions of the bovine adrenal gland, the zona 
glomerulosa (39 +/- 7 fmol/mg tissue equivalent) and inner medulla (34 +/- 1 
fmol/mg tissue). Binding was nonadrenergic (i.e., not inhibited by 100 nM 
methoxyidazoxan) and inhibited by 60-70% by 100 nM 2-BFI, the selective I2-RBS, 
suggesting binding predominantly to an I2-RBS. [3H]2-BFI (5 nM), the selective 
I2-RBS ligand, also labeled a high density of binding sites in the zona 
glomerulosa (57 +/- 9 fmol/mg) and chromaffin cells in the inner medulla (53 +/- 
4 fmol/mg). These sites, however, were insensitive to clonidine (100 nM). By 
contrast, [3H]rilmenidine (40 nM) labeled I-RBS in all regions of the adrenal 
gland, that is, the zonae glomerulosa (59 +/- 10 fmol/mg), fasciculata (78 +/- 
10 fmol/mg) and reticularis (63 +/- 7 fmol/mg), and outer and inner medullary 
chromaffin cells (42 +/- 1 and 55 +/- 2 fmol/mg, respectively). Binding to sites 
in the zona glomerulosa was partially inhibited (16%) by 100 nM 2-BFI. These 
results are consistent with previous studies indicating that [3H]rilmenidine 
labels an I2-RBS and additional I-RBS in rat brain and kidney. The distribution 
of [3H]RO19-6327 (5 nM) binding resembled that of [3H]2-BFI and [3H]clonidine 
binding with high densities of MAO-B enzyme located in the zona glomerulosa and 
chromaffin cells of the inner medulla (55 +/- 7 and 76 +/- 6 fmol/mg tissue, 
respectively), suggesting the colocalization of MAO-B enzyme with I2-RBS. 
[3H]RO41-1049 (20 nM) binding to MAO-A was highest in the zona reticularis (196 
+/- 7 fmol/mg tissue) compared to the zonae glomerulosa and fasciculata (90 +/- 
12 and 116 +/- 14 fmol/mg tissue) and inner medulla (149 +/- 38 fmol/mg tissue). 
Although the existence of I-RBS in bovine adrenal chromaffin cells is well 
established, this is the first description of I-RBS in the adrenal cortex. 
Further investigations are now required to determine whether imidazolines can 
affect adrenal function via actions at these sites.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb09355.x
PMID: 10415911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
