1. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1999 Jul;34(1):41-5. doi: 
10.1097/00005344-199907000-00007.

Effects of rilmenidine on stress-induced peak blood pressure and renal function.

Fauvel JP(1), Najem R, Ryon B, Ducher M, Laville M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology and Hypertension, HÃ´pital Edouard Herriot, Lyon, 
France.

Rilmenidine is an imidazoline I1-receptor agonist that centrally acts by 
reducing the sympathetic tone. There is strong experimental evidence that 
natriuresis could be evoked by proximal tubular I1-receptors that have also been 
isolated in human kidneys. However, in humans, the natriuretic effects of 
proximal tubular I1-receptors have never been demonstrated. Because stress tests 
elicited a sympathetically mediated increase in blood pressure and in sodium 
reabsorption, this study examined whether a short-term infusion of rilmenidine 
(1 mg) may interfere with stress-induced cardiovascular response and renal 
sodium handling in normotensive men, in a double-blind, crossover, 
placebo-controlled study. The stress test used is an efficient and reproducible 
computerized version of the Stroop's stress test. During the experimental 
sessions, both basal and stress renal functional parameters were determined: 
glomerular filtration rate, renal plasma flow, filtration fraction, sodium 
excretion, and segmental sodium tubular reabsorption (lithium clearance). During 
the placebo phase, stress induced a significant increase in systolic blood 
pressure (SBP; 22.2+/-10.1 mm Hg) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP; 11.0+/-5.0 
mm Hg). During stress, glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow tended 
to decrease, resulting in a nonsignificant increase in filtration fraction. 
Despite the increase in BP, stress induced a significant decrease in sodium 
excretion that was due mainly to a nonsignificant increase in sodium 
reabsorption in the proximal parts of the tubules. Rilmenidine significantly 
reduced rest and stress BP, but the cardiovascular reactivity to stress was not 
altered. The treatment slightly decreased basal glomerular filtration rate and 
increased renal plasma flow, so that the filtration fraction significantly 
decreased. The treatment-related decrease in BP was associated with a 
significant increase in basal sodium reabsorption. Stress-induced modifications 
in renal function and sodium handling were not altered by the treatment. In 
conclusion, rilmenidine reduced rest BP and preserved stress-induced reactivity 
in BP and heart rate. Renal effects of rilmenidine are characterized by a 
decrease in glomerular filtration rate and in filtration fraction and an 
increase in sodium reabsorption. The study failed to demonstrate any effect of 
rilmenidine on stress-induced increase in sodium reabsorption.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-199907000-00007
PMID: 10413065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
