1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1999 Jun 21;881:253-64. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb09367.x.

Mechanism of the sympathoinhibition produced by the clonidine-like drugs 
rilmenidine and moxonidine.

Szabo B(1), Bock C, Nordheim U, Niederhoffer N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Freiburg, Germany. 
szabo@ruf.uni-freiburg.de

The mechanism of the sympathoinhibition produced by two new derivatives of 
clonidine, rilmenidine and moxonidine, was studied. One aim was to determine the 
receptor responsible for the central sympathoinhibition by these drugs. 
Rilmenidine and moxonidine were injected into the cisterna cerebellomedullaris. 
They decreased blood pressure and the plasma noradrenaline concentration. After 
rilmenidine and moxonidine, two selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonists 
(devoid of affinity for I1 binding sites), yohimbine and SK&F86466, were given 
intracisternally. They completely counteracted the hypotensive effects of 
rilmenidine and moxonidine, indicating that alpha 2-adrenoceptors are involved 
in the central sympathoinhibition produced by these drugs. The other aim was to 
determine if peripheral presynaptic inhibition of noradrenaline release from 
postganglionic sympathetic neurons contributes to the overall reduction of 
sympathetic tone. Rilmenidine and moxonidine were injected i.v. in pithed 
rabbits with electrically stimulated sympathetic outflow. They dose-dependently 
lowered blood pressure and the plasma noradrenaline concentration and inhibited 
stimulation-evoked cardioacceleration. Moreover, the doses necessary for these 
peripheral effects were identical to the doses that reduce the sympathetic nerve 
firing rate and blood pressure in conscious rabbits. These observations indicate 
that peripheral presynaptic inhibition of noradrenaline release from 
postganglionic sympathetic neurons contributes to the overall reduction of 
sympathetic tone produced by rilmenidine and moxonidine in intact animals.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb09367.x
PMID: 10415923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
