1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1999 Jun 21;881:420-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb09390.x.

Central I1-imidazoline receptors as targets of centrally acting antihypertensive 
drugs. Clinical pharmacology of moxonidine and rilmenidine.

Van Zwieten PA(1), Peters SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacotherapy, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Moxonidine and rilmenidine are moderately selective I1-receptor stimulants. The 
imidazoline (I1) agonists cause peripheral sympathoinhibition, triggered at the 
level of central nervous imidazoline receptors. Imidazoline receptor stimulants 
are effective antihypertensive agents with a hemodynamic profile that is 
attractive from a pathophysiologic point of view. The antihypertensive activity 
of these agents is caused by vasodilatation and reduced peripheral vascular 
resistance. Left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic volume is reduced, 
whereas heart rate, stroke volume, cardiac output, and pulmonary artery 
pressures are largely unchanged. Long-term left ventricular hypertrophy is 
reduced. Both drugs, when applied in a once-daily dosage schedule, appear to 
control hypertension in most patients. Both drugs have been compared with 
representative agents from the major classes of antihypertensive drugs in 
controlled trials and found to be equally effective in blood pressure control. 
The incidence and severity of side effects are lower than those for clonidine, 
particularly with respect to sedation. A rebound (withdrawal) phenomenon has so 
far not been reported for moxonidine and rilmenidine. Therefore, I1-receptor 
stimulants offer the possibility of developing centrally acting agents with a 
better side-effect profile than do the classic alpha 2-adrenoceptor stimulants.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb09390.x
PMID: 10415946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
