1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1999 Jul;360(1):50-62. doi: 
10.1007/s002109900032.

Effects of imidazoline receptor ligands on monoamine synthesis in the rat brain 
in vivo.

Sastre-Coll A(1), Esteban S, Garc√≠a-Sevilla JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of the Balearic Islands, Palma de Mallorca, 
Spain.

This study was designed to assess the effects of imidazoline drugs on putative 
presynaptic imidazoline receptors modulating brain monoamine synthesis in vivo. 
The accumulation of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (dopa) and 5-hydroxytryptophan 
(5-HTP) after decarboxylase inhibition was used as a measure of the rate of 
tyrosine and tryptophan hydroxylation in various brain regions of naive rats and 
after irreversible alpha2-adrenoceptor inactivation with EEDQ (1.6 mg/kg, i.p., 
6 h). Clonidine (1-3 mg/kg), moxonidine (1-10 mg/kg) and rilmenidine (10 mg/kg) 
(mixed I1/alpha2 agonists) decreased dopa and 5-HTP synthesis in the cerebral 
cortex (14%-81%), hippocampus (27%-84%) and/or striatum (29%-56%), but these 
inhibitory effects were abolished in 
N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ)-treated rats. Similarly, 
the stimulatory effect of efaroxan (mixed I1/alpha2 antagonist; 10 mg/kg) on 
dopa synthesis in the cortex (77%) and hippocampus (57%) was abolished by EEDQ. 
The selective I1-ligand 2-endo-amino-3-exoisopropylbicyclo-heptane (AGN-192403; 
5-10 mg/kg) did not modify dopa or 5-HTP synthesis in any brain region in naive 
or EEDQ-treated rats. Idazoxan (mixed I2/alpha2 antagonist; 20 mg/kg) increased 
dopa synthesis in the cortex (111%) and hippocampus (87%), but the stimulatory 
effects were abolished by EEDQ. Moreover, idazoxan and efaroxan decreased 5-HTP 
synthesis in the cortex (12%-34%) and hippocampus (30%-34%) in a manner 
sensitive to blockade by the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100135. The 
selective I2-igands 2-(2-benzofuranyl)-2-imidazoline (2-BFI; 20 mg/kg) and 
2-styryl-2-imidazoline (LSL 61122; 10 mg/kg) did not alter the synthesis of dopa 
or 5-HTP in the cortex or hippocampus. In striatum, 2-BFI (1-20 mg/kg) 
dose-dependently decreased dopa synthesis (ED50: 5.9 mg/kg), reduced dopamine 
levels (6%-36%) and increased those of its metabolites DOPAC (15%-95%) and HVA 
(24%-74%). The inhibitory effect of 2-BFI on dopa/dopamine synthesis in striatum 
remained unchanged after alkylation of imidazoline receptors with 
isothiocyanatobenzyl imidazoline (IBI; 60 mg/kg, 6 h) or blockade of these 
receptors with 2-(2-ethyl 2,3-dihydro-2-benzofuranyl)-2-imidazole (KU-14R; 7-20 
mg/kg). Therefore, most imidazoline drugs modulated the synthesis of brain 
monoamines through interaction with alpha2-adrenoceptors or 5-HT1A receptors. 
The results do not provide functional evidence for the existence of presynaptic 
imidazoline receptors regulating the synthesis of monoamines in the rat brain.

DOI: 10.1007/s002109900032
PMID: 10463334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
