1. J Hypertens Suppl. 1999 Aug;17(3):S37-9.

Moxonidine: a review of safety and tolerability after seven years of clinical 
experience.

Schachter M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, St. Mary's Hospital, London, UK. 
M.Schachter@ic.ac.uk

Centrally acting antihypertensive drugs, or sympatholytics, (reserpine, 
methyldopa and clonidine) have a long history of efficacy but are now little 
used in most countries. One of the most important reasons for this is relatively 
poor tolerability compared to many newer agents. In the case of clonidine there 
is also the potential danger of rebound hypertension. The most prominent adverse 
effects have been dry mouth, sedation, dizziness and oedema. These reactions, 
especially the first two, are thought to be associated with activation of 
central nervous system and salivary gland alpha2-adrenergic receptors. In the 
last 15 years it has become possible to produce drugs with selective agonist 
effect on another class of brainstem receptors, the imidazoline I1-receptors, 
which appear to have modulate sympathetic activity and blood pressure without 
affecting alertness or salivary flow: however, they still have some action on 
alpha2-receptors. Moxonidine and rilmenidine are moderately selective 
imidazoline agonists which have been in clinical use for several years in many 
European countries. Trial evidence and postmarketing surveillance indicate that 
moxonidine may cause dry mouth or sedation in a minority (<10%) of patients, 
significantly less than with the older drugs. There is no significant incidence 
of oedema and unexpected or idiosyncratic adverse effects are extremely rare. 
Moxonidine may improve aspects of glucose and lipid metabolism. In conclusion, 
moxonidine is a safe as well as an effective antihypertensive, with considerably 
improved patient tolerability compared to the older sympatholytics.

PMID: 10489097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
