1. Br J Pharmacol. 1999 Oct;128(4):881-90. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0702860.

Characterization of the binding of [3H]-clobenpropit to histamine H3-receptors 
in guinea-pig cerebral cortex membranes.

Harper EA(1), Shankley NP, Black JW.

Author information:
(1)James Black Foundation, 68 Half Moon Lane, Dulwich, London SE24 9JE.

1 We have investigated the binding of a novel histamine H3-receptor antagonist 
radioligand, [3H]- clobenpropit ([3H]-VUF9153), to guinea-pig cerebral cortex 
membranes. 2 Saturation isotherms for [3H]-clobenpropit appeared biphasic. 
Scatchard plots were curvilinear and Hill plot slopes were significantly less 
than unity (0.63+/-0.03; n = 12+/-s.e.mean). The radioligand appeared to label 
two sites in guinea-pig cerebral cortex membranes with apparent affinities 
(pKD') of 10.91+/-0.12 (Bmax = 5.34+/-0.85 fmol mg(-1) original wet weight) and 
9.17+/-0.16 (Bmax = 23.20+/-6.70 fmol mg(-1)). 3 In the presence of metyrapone 
(3 mM) or sodium chloride (100 mM), [3H]-clobenpropit appeared to label a 
homogeneous receptor population (Bmax=3.41+/-0.46 fmol mg-1 and 3.49+/-0.44 fmol 
mg(-1), pKD' = 10.59+/-0.17 and 10.77+/-0.02, respectively). Scatchard plots 
were linear and Hill slopes were not significantly different from unity 
(0.91+/-0.04 and 0.99+/-0.02, respectively). Granisetron (1 microM), rilmenidine 
(3 microM), idazoxan (0.3 microM), pentazocine (3 microM) and 
1,3-di-(2-tolyl)guanidine (0.3 microM) had no effect on the binding of 
[3H]-clobenpropit. 4 The specific binding of [3H]-clobenpropit appeared to reach 
equilibrium after 25 min at 21+/-3 degrees C and remained constant for >180 min. 
The estimated pKD' (10.27+/-0.27; n = 3+/-s.e.mean) was not significantly 
different from that estimated by saturation analysis in the presence of 
metyrapone. 5 A series of histamine H3-receptor ligands expressed affinity 
values for sites labelled with [3H]-clobenpropit which were not significantly 
different from those estimated when [3H]-R-alpha-MH was used to label histamine 
H3-receptors in guinea-pig cerebral cortex membranes.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0702860
PMCID: PMC1571704
PMID: 10556922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
