1. Drugs. 1999 Nov;58(5):799-812. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199958050-00003.

Drugs acting on imidazoline receptors: a review of their pharmacology, their use 
in blood pressure control and their potential interest in cardioprotection.

Bousquet P(1), Feldman J.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie et Pharmacologie Cardiovasculaire, Universit√© 
Louis Pasteur, Strasbourg, France. Pascal.Bousquet@medecine.u-strasbg.fr

Drugs acting within the autonomic nervous system are of particular interest when 
autonomic abnormalities are implicated in the development and maintenance of 
various cardiovascular pathologies. For example, it has been documented that in 
the early stages of hypertensive disease, i.e. hyperkinetic borderline 
hypertension, a sympathetic hyperactivity associated with a decreased 
parasympathetic activity results in increased cardiac output and heart rate. 
Several classes of drugs acting within the central, as well as the peripheral, 
autonomic nervous system are very efficient in treating hypertensive disease. 
One class - the second generation of a group of centrally acting drugs selective 
for imidazoline receptors - has proved beneficial in this respect, because drugs 
in this class are well tolerated and have interesting additional effects such as 
their antiarrhythmic action. Rilmenidine and moxonidine are the lead compounds 
of this class of drugs. Rilmenidine and moxonidine both proved more selective 
for cerebral imidazoline receptors than the reference drug, clonidine. It was 
suggested that this selectivity, attributable to their lower affinity for 
alpha2-adrenoceptors, explains the low incidence of adverse effects (including 
sedation) associated with these drugs. In addition, potentially beneficial 
actions on cardiac dysrythmias and congestive heart failure enlarge the 
therapeutic potential of the second generation of imidazoline-related drugs. 
This review focuses on the main pharmacological and clinical properties of 
rilmenidine and moxonidine, paying particular attention not only to their 
efficacy in hypertension but also to other potential cardiovascular indications.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199958050-00003
PMID: 10595861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
