1. J Cardiovasc Risk. 2000 Feb;7(1):57-61. doi: 10.1177/204748730000700110.

Rilmenidine in the hypertensive type-2 diabetic: a controlled pilot study versus 
captopril.

Bauduceau B(1), Mayaudon H, Dupuy O.

Author information:
(1)Service d'endocrinologie, Hôpital d'Instruction des Armées Bégin, Saint 
Mandé, France.

BACKGROUND: Rilmenidine is an innovative antihypertensive agent that binds 
specifically to I1 imidazoline receptors. The antihypertensive efficacy of 
rilmenidine in treating type-2 diabetics has been demonstrated, and is 
associated with very good clinical and laboratory tolerance.
DESIGN: This was a 6-month, double-blind, randomized, controlled study comparing 
the effects of rilmenidine and captopril on the progression of microalbuminuria 
in a population of patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension [90 mmHg < 
diastolic blood pressure (DBP) < 110 mmHg], type-2 diabetes, and 
microalbuminuria (30 mg/24 h < urine albumin excretion < or = 300 mg/24 h).
RESULTS: Between month 0 and month 6, the mean supine blood pressure was reduced 
in a similar manner by rilmenidine (systolic blood pressure from 159 to 141 mmHg 
and diastolic blood pressure from 98 to 84 mmHg) and captopril (systolic blood 
pressure from 157 to 144 mmHg and diastolic blood pressure from 101 to 82 mmHg). 
The median value for microalbuminuria was reduced from 160 (90-260) to 56 
(27-87) mg per 24 h by rilmenidine and from 144 (51-200) to 54 (41-123) mg per 
24 h by captopril. Rate of clearance of creatinine was not significantly changed 
during the study by either treatment (with rilmenidine it varied from 95.2 to 
95.6 ml/min; with captopril it varied from 86.2 to 90.4 ml/min). There was no 
statistical difference between the changes in levels of glycosylated hemoglobin 
for the groups treated with rilmenidine and captopril. Clinical and laboratory 
acceptabilities were good, and those for the two groups were comparable.
CONCLUSION: Rilmenidine exerts similar antihypertensive effects to those of 
captopril on the hypertensive with type-2 diabetes. Decreases in 
microalbuminuria elicited by the two treatments do not differ. That 
administration of rilmenidine decreases microalbuminuria suggests that it could 
exert nephroprotective effects.

DOI: 10.1177/204748730000700110
PMID: 10785875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
