1. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 2000 May;35(5):791-5. doi: 
10.1097/00005344-200005000-00017.

Actions of L-NAME and methylene blue on the hypotensive effects of clonidine and 
rilmenidine in the anesthetized rat.

Soares de Moura RS(1), Leão MC, Castro Resende AC, Moreira CF, Sena KM, Silveira 
SS, Lima AF, Nunes FR, Mesquita Ferreira AG.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Farmacologia IB, Centro Biomédico, Universidade do Estado do 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. demoura@uerj.br

The antihypertensive mechanism of alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists, such as 
clonidine and rilmenidine, is not completely elucidated, although it is probably 
due to reduction of sympathetic tone mediated by stimulation of central 
alpha2-adrenoceptors. Because activation of alpha2-adrenoceptors on endothelial 
cells induces release of endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF), we 
determined whether nitric oxide (NO) release is involved in the antihypertensive 
action of clonidine and rilmenidine. In chloralose-anesthetised Wistar rats, 
systolic and diastolic arterial blood pressures were recorded on a polygraph. 
Intravenous injection of clonidine or rilmenidine (control group) caused a rapid 
increase of arterial blood pressure. followed by a long-lasting hypotensive 
effect. The hypotensive effects, estimated as the area enclosed by the decrease 
in diastolic pressure during the 20 min after clonidine and rilmenidine 
injections, were 574+/-60 and 410+/-59 mm Hg/min, respectively. The delta 
decrease in diastolic arterial blood pressure observed 20 min after intravenous 
injections of clonidine and rilmenidine was 48+/-5 and 34+/-3 mm Hg, 
respectively. Clonidine and rilmenidine injected 5-10 min after intravenous 
pretreatment with L-NAME (2 and 1 mg/kg) or methylene blue (10 mg/kg) induced 
hypotensive effects that were significantly smaller than that observed for the 
control group. These results suggest that the antihypertensive effects of 
clonidine and rilmenidine also may be modulated by the NO-cyclic guanosine 
monophosphate (cGMP) pathway at the level of the central nervous system and/or 
at the vascular peripheral circulation.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-200005000-00017
PMID: 10813383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
