1. DNA Cell Biol. 2000 Jun;19(6):319-29. doi: 10.1089/10445490050043290.

Imidazoline receptor antisera-selected (IRAS) cDNA: cloning and 
characterization.

Piletz JE(1), Ivanov TR, Sharp JD, Ernsberger P, Chang CH, Pickard RT, Gold G, 
Roth B, Zhu H, Jones JC, Baldwin J, Reis DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson 
39216-4505, USA. jpiletz@psychiatry.umsmed.edu

The imidazoline-1 receptor (IR1) is considered a novel target for drug 
discovery. Toward cloning an IR1, a truncated cDNA clone was isolated from a 
human hippocampal lambda gt11 cDNA expression library by relying on the 
selectivity of two antisera directed against candidate IR proteins. 
Amplification reactions were performed to extend the 5' and 3' ends of this 
cDNA, followed by end-to-end PCR and conventional cloning. The resultant 
5131-basepair molecule, designated imidazoline receptor-antisera-selected (IRAS) 
cDNA, was shown to encode a 1504-amino acid protein (IRAS-1). No relation exists 
between the amino acid sequence of IRAS-1 and proteins known to bind 
imidazolines (e.g., it is not an alpha2-adrenoceptor or monoamine oxidase 
subtype). However, certain sequences within IRAS-1 are consistent with signaling 
motifs found in cytokine receptors, as previously suggested for an IR1. An 
acidic region in IRAS-1 having an amino acid sequence nearly identical to that 
of ryanodine receptors led to the demonstration that ruthenium red, a dye that 
binds the acidic region in ryanodine receptors, also stained IRAS-1 as a 167-kD 
band on SDS gels and inhibited radioligand binding of native I1 sites in 
untransfected PC-12 cells (a source of authentic I1 binding sites). Two 
epitope-selective antisera were also generated against IRAS-1, and both reacted 
with the same 167-kD band on Western blots. In a host-cell-specific manner, 
transfection of IRAS cDNA into Chinese hamster ovary cells led to high-affinity 
I1 binding sites by criteria of nanomolar affinity for moxonidine and 
rilmenidine. Thus, IRAS-1 is the first protein discovered with characteristics 
of an IR1.

DOI: 10.1089/10445490050043290
PMID: 10882231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
