1. Am J Hypertens. 2000 Jun;13(6 Pt 2):89S-98S. doi:
10.1016/s0895-7061(00)00224-7.

I1 imidazoline receptors in cardiovascular regulation: the place of rilmenidine.

Head GA(1), Burke SL.

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Baker Medical Research Institute, Prahran, 
Victoria, Australia. Geoff.Head@baker.edu.au

From the very earliest suggestion of a distinction between imidazoline receptors 
and alpha2-adrenoceptors, there has been much debate as to their contribution to 
the antihypertensive actions of clonidine-like agents. However, with the 
development of drugs such as rilmenidine that are more selective for I1 
imidazoline receptors, their role and also their close relationship with 
alpha2-adrenoceptors has become clearer. We have examined this question using a 
range of imidazoline and alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonists given centrally and 
peripherally to conscious rabbits. We found that second-generation agents such 
as rilmenidine preferentially act via imidazoline receptors but that 
alpha2-adrenoceptors are important for the hypotension produced by the 
first-generation agents clonidine and alpha-methyldopa. In addition to the 
hypotension, rilmenidine facilitates cardiac vagal baroreflexes and inhibits 
cardiac sympathetic baroreflexes and diminishes the increase in renal 
sympathetic activity produced by environmental stress. In other studies using 
anesthetized rabbits and direct measures of sympathetic nerve activity, we 
confirmed that the major site of sympathoinhibitory actions and sympathetic 
baroreflex effects of rilmenidine is the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Our 
results also suggest that alpha2-adrenoceptors are activated as a consequence of 
imidazoline receptor activation by rilmenidine. Thus, though imidazoline 
receptors appear to be the primary target of rilmenidine, "downstream" 
alpha2-adrenoceptors within the brainstem are also involved and need to be 
considered in developing pharmacologic strategies for antihypertensive treatment 
involving imidazoline agents.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-7061(00)00224-7
PMID: 10921527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
