1. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2001 Feb;280(2):R577-87. doi: 
10.1152/ajpregu.2001.280.2.R577.

Influence of rostral ventrolateral medulla on renal sympathetic baroreflex in 
conscious rabbits.

Mayorov DN(1), Head GA.

Author information:
(1)Baker Medical Research Institute, Melbourne, Victoria 8008, Australia. 
Dmitry.Mayorov@baker.edu.au

Previous studies with anesthetized animals have shown that the pressor region of 
the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) is a critical site in vasomotor 
control. The aim of this study was to develop, in conscious rabbits, a technique 
for microinjecting into the RVLM and to determine the influence of this area on 
renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA) and arterial pressure (AP) using local 
injections of glutamate, rilmenidine, ANG II and sarile. Rabbits were implanted 
with guide cannulas for bilateral microinjections into the RVLM (n = 7) or into 
the intermediate ventrolateral medulla (IVLM, n = 6) and an electrode for 
measuring RSNA. After 7 days of recovery, injections of glutamate (10 and 20 
nmol) into the RVLM increased RSNA by 81 and 88% and AP by 17 and 25 mmHg, 
respectively. Infusion of glutamate (2 nmol/min) into the RVLM increased AP by 
15 mmHg and the RSNA baroreflex range by 38%. By contrast, injection of the 
imidazoline receptor agonist rilmenidine (4 nmol) into the RVLM decreased AP by 
8 mmHg and the RSNA baroreflex range by 37%. Injections of rilmenidine into the 
IVLM did not alter AP or RSNA. Surprisingly, treatments with ANG II (4 pmol/min) 
or the ANG II receptor antagonist sarile (500 pmol) into the RVLM did not affect 
the resting or baroreflex parameters. Infusion of ANG II (4 pmol/min) into the 
fourth ventricle increased AP and facilitated the RSNA baroreflex. Our results 
show that agents administered via a novel microinjecting system for conscious 
rabbits can selectively modulate neuronal activity in circumscribed regions of 
the ventrolateral medulla. We conclude that the RVLM plays a key role in 
circulatory control in conscious rabbits. However, we find no evidence for the 
role of ANG II receptors in the RVLM in the moment-to-moment regulation of AP 
and RSNA.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.2001.280.2.R577
PMID: 11208590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
