1. Hypertension. 2001 Feb;37(2):246-9. doi: 10.1161/01.hyp.37.2.246.

Nitric oxide and central antihypertensive drugs: one more difference between 
catecholamines and imidazolines.

Sy GY(1), Bruban V, Bousquet P, Feldman J.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie et Pharmacologie Cardiovasculaire, Faculté de 
Médecine, Université Louis Pasteur, Strasbourg, France.

NO is known to be involved in the peripheral and central regulation of the 
cardiovascular function. It plays a neuromodulatory role via a direct action on 
presynaptic nerve terminals, stimulating the release of gamma-aminobutyric acid, 
glutamate, and norepinephrine. Our aim was to study the possible role of NO in 
the cardiovascular effects of the central antihypertensive drugs clonidine, 
rilmenidine, and alpha-methyl-norepinephrine (alpha-MNA). Sites and mechanisms 
of the hypotensive action of these drugs were different; clonidine and 
rilmenidine acted on imidazoline receptors in the nucleus reticularis lateralis, 
whereas alpha-MNA acted upon alpha(2)-adrenoceptors in the nucleus tractus 
solitarius. The influence of N:(G)-nitro-L-arginine, an NO synthase inhibitor, 
on the central hypotensive effects of these drugs was investigated in 
pentobarbital-anesthetized rabbits. The intracisternal (IC) administration of 
alpha-MNA (30 microg/kg) induced hypotension (79+/-2 versus 103+/-4 mm Hg) and 
bradycardia (222+/-8 versus 278+/-4 bpm) (P:<0.05) (n=5). Clonidine (0.07 
microg/kg IC) also induced hypotension (69+/-5 versus 99+/-4 mm Hg) and 
bradycardia (266+/-7 versus 306+/-10 bpm) (P:<0.05) (n=5). In addition to 
clonidine, rilmenidine (1 microg/kg IC) induced hypotension (64+/-4 versus 
97+/-4 mm Hg) and bradycardia (264+/-11 versus 310+/-4 bpm) (P:<0.05) (n=5). 
Pretreatment with N:(G)-nitro-L-arginine (900 microg/kg IC) completely prevented 
the hypotensive effect of alpha-MNA but influenced the cardiovascular effects of 
neither clonidine nor rilmenidine. These results confirm that imidazoline drugs, 
such as clonidine, rilmenidine, and the catecholamine alpha(2)-adrenoceptor 
agonist alpha-MNA, have distinct mechanisms of action.

DOI: 10.1161/01.hyp.37.2.246
PMID: 11230279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
