1. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 2001 Mar;37(3):252-61. doi: 
10.1097/00005344-200103000-00003.

Relative importance of rostral ventrolateral medulla in sympathoinhibitory 
action of rilmenidine in conscious and anesthetized rabbits.

Mayorov DN(1), Burke SL, Head GA.

Author information:
(1)Baker Medical Research Institute, Prahran, Melbourne, Australia. 
Dmitry.Mayorov@baker.edu.au

The pressor region of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) is a critical 
site in the sympathoinhibitory action of imidazoline receptor agonists as shown 
by studies in anesthetized animals. The aim of this study was to compare the 
importance of the RVLM in mediating the inhibitory action of rilmenidine on 
renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA) and arterial pressure in 
urethane-anesthetized rabbits (n = 11) and in conscious, chronically 
instrumented rabbits (n = 6). Bilateral microinjection of rilmenidine (4 nmol in 
100 nl) into the RVLM caused a greater decrease in resting arterial pressure in 
anesthetized animals (-19 mm Hg) than in conscious animals (-8 mm Hg). By 
contrast, the decrease in resting RSNA evoked by rilmenidine was similar in 
conscious (-27%) and anesthetized (-36%) rabbits. Furthermore, rilmenidine 
microinjection into the RVLM was equally effective in inhibiting the RSNA 
baroreflex in both groups of animals. The upper plateau of the RSNA baroreflex 
decreased by 37% and 42%, and gain decreased by 41% and 44% after rilmenidine 
treatments in conscious and anesthetized rabbits, respectively. We conclude that 
the RVLM plays an equally important role in the inhibitory action of rilmenidine 
on RSNA in conscious and anesthetized rabbits either at rest or during 
baroreflex responses. A relatively moderate effect of rilmenidine on arterial 
pressure in conscious, chronically instrumented rabbits may relate to a lower 
level of sympathetic drive compared with anesthetized animals.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-200103000-00003
PMID: 11243415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
