1. Eur J Pharmacol. 2001 Mar;415(2-3):117-25. doi: 10.1016/s0014-2999(01)00834-2.

Imidazoline I(1) receptor-induced activation of phosphatidylcholine-specific 
phospholipase C elicits mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation in PC12 
cells.

Zhang J(1), El-Mas MM, Abdel-Rahman AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, East Carolina University, 
Greenville, NC 27858-4353, USA.

In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that the activation of 
imidazoline I(1)-receptor, which is coupled to phosphatidylcholine-specific 
phospholipase C, results in downstream activation of mitogen-activated protein 
kinase (p42(mapk) and p44(mapk) isoforms) in PC12 cells. PC12 cells pretreated 
with nerve growth factor (50 ng/ml, 48 h) to initiate neuronal differentiation 
were incubated with [methyl-3H]choline and [3H]myristate. Activation of 
imidazoline I(1) receptor by rilmenidine (10 microM) caused time-dependent 
increases in diacylglycerol accumulation and phosphocholine release. The Western 
blotting analysis showed that rilmenidine (10 microM) produced a time-dependent 
activation of p42(mapk) and p44(mapk) that reached its maximum at 15 min and 
returned to control levels after 30 min. This finding was confirmed by 
immunofluorescence labeling of activated mitogen-activated protein kinase in the 
same model system. Efaroxan (imidazoline I(1)-receptor antagonist) or 
tricyclodecan-9-yl-xanthogenate (D609, phosphatidylcholine-specific 
phospholipase C inhibitor) attenuated the phosphorylation of p42(mapk) and 
p44(mapk) induced by rilmenidine. Nerve growth factor-induced phosphorylation of 
both mitogen-activated protein kinase isoforms was not affected by D609. These 
results support the hypothesis that the activation of the imidazoline I(1) 
receptor coupled phosphatidylcholine-specific phospholipase C results in the 
downstream activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(01)00834-2
PMID: 11274989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
