1. Jpn J Pharmacol. 2001 Feb;85(2):167-74. doi: 10.1254/jjp.85.167.

Interactions of ligands at angiotensin II-receptors and imidazoline receptors.

Wethmar U(1), Raasch W, Dendorfer A, Dominiak P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Experimental and Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Medical 
University of LÃ¼beck, Germany.

Ligands for angiotensin II-(AT)-receptors and imidazoline receptors have 
structural similarities and influence blood pressure via various mechanisms. The 
goal of this study was to study the specificity of various ligands by 
displacement experiments. Antazoline, cimetidine, clonidine, efaroxan, 
guanabenz, guanethidine, idazoxan, moxonidine and rilmenidine up to a 
concentration of 100 microM failed to displace the specific binding of 
[125I]Sar1,Ile8 angiotensin II at the AT1-receptor characterized by losartan 
(IC50 = 26 +/- 12 nM) in liver homogenate. The same substances up to 100 microM 
produced no reduction of specific [125I]Sar1,Ile8 angiotensin II binding to the 
AT2-receptor of phaeochromocytoma cell membranes characterized by PD123319 (IC50 
= 20 +/- 5 nM). Displacement experiments at the imidazoline I1-receptors were 
performed on bovine adrenal medulla membranes using [3H]clonidine after 
characterization by the I1-ligand clonidine (IC50 = 459 +/- 13 nM) and the 
I2-ligand idazoxan (IC50 = 3.29 +/- 0.88 microM). The investigated AT-receptor 
ligands angiotensin II, losartan, EXP 3174 and PD123319 revealed no displacement 
of [3H]clonidine up to a concentration of 100 microM. The I2-receptor in liver 
homogenate was characterized by displacement of [3H]idazoxan by cold idazoxan 
and clonidine (IC50 = 0.37 +/- 0.17 and 68 +/- 31 microM, respectively). The 
investigated AT-receptor ligands angiotensin II, losartan and PD123319 failed to 
displace [3H]idazoxan specifically up to 100 microM. Hence, the tested 
substances showed no cross-reactivity at the corresponding AT- and I-receptors 
up to 100 microM, a concentration markedly higher than the plasma concentrations 
achieved after therapeutic application.

DOI: 10.1254/jjp.85.167
PMID: 11286399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
