1. Auton Neurosci. 2001 May 14;88(3):151-9. doi: 10.1016/s1566-0702(01)00221-1.

Modulation of ACh-induced currents in rat adrenal chromaffin cells by ligands of 
alpha2 adrenergic and imidazoline receptors.

Takeda M(1), Phillips JK, Dubey R, Polson JW, Lipski J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine and Health Science, University 
of Auckland, New Zealand.

The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of the alpha2-adrenergic 
receptors in the adrenal medulla, and to examine the mechanism by which 
clonidine and related drugs inhibit acetylcholine (ACh)-induced whole-cell 
currents in adrenal chromaffin cells. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain 
reaction (RT-PCR) performed on punches of rat adrenal medulla demonstrated 
expression of mRNA for the 2A-, alpha2B- and alpha2C-adrenergic receptors. 
Similar experiments conducted with tissue punches obtained from the adrenal 
cortex did not reveal expression of these receptor subtypes. Whole-cell currents 
were recorded in isolated chromaffin cells using the perforated-patch 
configuration. ACh (50 microM) evoked inward currents with a peak amplitude of 
117.8+/-9.3 pA (n = 45; Vhol = -60 mV). The currents were inhibited in a 
dose-dependent manner (0.5-50 microM) by clonidine, UK 14,304 and rilmenidine 
(agonists of alpha2/imidazoline receptors), as well as by SKF 86466 and efaroxan 
(antagonists). Adrenaline and noradrenaline (50-100 microM) had no significant 
effect. Thus, although the adrenal medulla expresses mRNA for the 
alpha2-adrenergic receptors, the lack of agonist-antagonist specificity observed 
in our whole-cell recordings (in the absence of intracellular dialysis) provides 
additional evidence against the possibility that these inhibitory effects are 
mediated by classical alpha2 or imidazoline receptor interactions.

DOI: 10.1016/s1566-0702(01)00221-1
PMID: 11474556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
