1. J Hypertens. 2001 Sep;19(9):1615-24. doi: 10.1097/00004872-200109000-00014.

Involvement of imidazoline receptors in the baroreflex effects of rilmenidine in 
conscious rabbits.

Head GA(1), Burke SL, Sannajust FJ.

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Baker Medical Research Institute, PO Box 6492 
Melbourne, Victoria 8008, Australia. Geoff.Head@baker.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: It has been suggested that imidazoline receptors rather than 
alpha2-adrenoceptors are involved in the sympathoinhibitory action of centrally 
acting antihypertensive drugs such as rilmenidine. In the present study, we 
examined the relative importance of alpha2-adrenoceptors and imidazoline 
receptors in modulating the renal sympathetic and heart rate (HR) baroreflex in 
response to central administration of rilmenidine in conscious normotensive 
rabbits.
METHODS: In seven conscious rabbits, chronically instrumented with a fourth 
ventricular (4V) catheter, aortic and vena caval cuff occluders and a renal 
nerve electrode, we continuously recorded renal sympathetic nerve activity 
(RSNA), mean arterial pressure (MAP) and HR and assessed baroreflex MAP-RSNA and 
MAP-HR relationships with balloon-induced ramp rises and falls in MAP. Rabbits 
were treated with 4V rilmenidine (22 microg/kg) followed by 4V idazoxan (30 
microg/kg; a mixed alpha2-adrenoceptor and imidazoline receptor antagonist) or 
4V 2-methoxy-idazoxan (1 microg/kg; an alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist with 
little affinity for imidazoline receptors).
RESULTS: Rilmenidine lowered blood pressure by 24% and reduced both upper and 
lower plateaus of the renal sympathetic baroreflex curve, such that the RSNA 
range (difference between plateaus) was reduced by 40% (-32 +/- 10 normalized 
units). Curves were shifted to the left with the fall in MAP. Idazoxan restored 
MAP, maximum RSNA and the RSNA baroreflex range. By contrast the 
alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist 2-methoxy-idazoxan caused only a partial recovery 
of MAP and RSNA baroreflex upper plateau and range (-9 +/- 2 mmHg, 29 and 33% 
lower than control). Both antagonists partially restored the HR baroreflex.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that in conscious rabbits, both imidazoline 
receptors and alpha2-adrenoceptors are involved in the central antihypertensive 
and baroreflex actions of rilmenidine, but that activation of imidazoline 
receptors is more important for its renal sympathoinhibitory action.

DOI: 10.1097/00004872-200109000-00014
PMID: 11564982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
