1. Br J Pharmacol. 2001 Sep;134(2):295-304. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0704237.

Effects of imidazoline antihypertensive drugs on sympathetic tone and 
noradrenaline release in the prefrontal cortex.

Szabo B(1), Fritz T, Wedzony K.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Experimental and Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Albert 
Ludwigs University, Hermann-Herder-Strasse 5, D-79104 Freiburg i. Br., Germany. 
szabo@uni-freiburg.de

1. The aim of the present study was to compare the effects of the centrally 
acting antihypertensive drugs rilmenidine, moxonidine, clonidine and guanabenz 
on sympathetic tone with their effects on noradrenaline release in the cerebral 
cortex. In particular, the hypothesis was tested that rilmenidine and 
moxonidine, due to their high affinity for sympatho-inhibitory imidazoline I(1) 
receptors and low affinity for alpha(2)-adrenoceptors, lower sympathetic tone 
without causing an alpha(2)-adrenoceptor-mediated inhibition of cerebrocortical 
noradrenaline release. 2. In rats anaesthetized with urethane, blood pressure 
and heart rate were measured and the concentration of noradrenaline in arterial 
blood plasma was determined. The release of noradrenaline in the medial 
prefrontal cortex was estimated by microdialysis. Intravenous administration of 
rilmenidine (30, 100, 300 and 1000 microg kg(-1)), moxonidine (10, 30, 100 and 
300 microg kg(-1)), clonidine (1, 3, 10 and 30 microg kg(-1)) and guanabenz (1, 
3, 10 and 30 microg kg(-1)) led to dose-dependent hypotension and bradycardia; 
the plasma noradrenaline concentration also decreased. After the two highest 
doses, all four drugs lowered noradrenaline release in the prefrontal cortex. At 
doses eliciting equal hypotensive and sympatho-inhibitory responses, rilmenidine 
and moxonidine inhibited cerebral cortical noradrenaline release at least as 
much as clonidine and guanabenz. 3. The results show that rilmenidine and 
moxonidine lower cerebrocortical noradrenaline release at doses similar to those 
which cause sympatho-inhibition. This effect was probably due to an 
alpha(2)-adrenoceptor-mediated inhibition of the firing of locus coeruleus 
neurons and, in addition, to presynaptic inhibition of noradrenaline release at 
the level of the axon terminals in the cortex. The results argue against the 
hypothesis that rilmenidine and moxonidine, due to their selectivity for 
sympatho-inhibitory I(1) imidazoline receptors, do not suppress noradrenergic 
neurons in the central nervous system.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0704237
PMCID: PMC1572948
PMID: 11564647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
