1. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol. 2002 Jan;282(1):F113-23. doi: 
10.1152/ajprenal.0153.2001.

Sympathetic modulation of renal blood flow by rilmenidine and captopril: central 
vs. peripheral effects.

Janssen BJ(1), Lukoshkova EV, Head GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Cardiovascular Research Institute 
Maastricht, 6200 MD Maastricht, The Netherlands. b.janssen@farmaco.unimaas.nl

Renal blood flow (RBF) is modulated by renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA). 
However, agents that are supposed to reduce sympathetic tone, such as 
rilmenidine and captopril, influence RBF also by direct arteriolar effects. The 
present study was designed to test to what extent the renal nerves contribute to 
the renal hemodynamic response to rilmenidine and captopril. We used a technique 
that allows simultaneous recording of RBF and RSNA to the same kidney in 
conscious rabbits. We compared the dose-dependent effects of rilmenidine (0.01-1 
mg/kg) and captopril (0.03-3 mg/kg) on RBF and RSNA in intact and renal 
denervated (RNX) rabbits. Because rilmenidine and captopril lower blood 
pressure, studies were also performed in sinoaortically denervated (SAD) rabbits 
to determine the role of the baroreflex in the renal hemodynamic response. 
Rilmenidine reduced arterial pressure, RBF, and RSNA dose dependently. In intact 
rabbits (n = 10), renal conductance (RC) remained unaltered (3 +/- 5%), even 
after the 1-mg/kg dose, which completely abolished RSNA. In RNX rabbits (n = 6), 
RC fell by 18 +/- 5%, whereas in SAD rabbits (n = 7) RC increased by 30 +/- 20% 
after rilmenidine. In intact rabbits, captopril increased RSNA maximally by 64 
+/- 8%. RSNA did not rise in SAD rabbits. Despite the differential response or 
absence of RSNA, captopril increased RC to a comparable degree (maximally 
40-50%) in all three groups. Using spectral analysis techniques, we found that 
in all groups, independently of ongoing RSNA, captopril, but not rilmenidine, 
attenuated both myogenic (0.07-0.25 Hz) and tubuloglomerular feedback (0.01-0.07 
Hz) related fluctuations in RC. We conclude that, in conscious rabbits, the 
renal vasodilator effect of rilmenidine depends on the level of ongoing RSNA. 
Its sympatholytic effect is, however, blunted by a direct arteriolar 
vasoconstrictor effect. In contrast, the renal vasodilator effect of captopril 
is not modulated by ongoing RSNA and is associated with impairment of 
autoregulation of RBF.

DOI: 10.1152/ajprenal.0153.2001
PMID: 11739119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
