1. Angiology. 2002 Mar-Apr;53(2):199-204. doi: 10.1177/000331970205300211.

The chronic effect of rilmenidine on heart rate variability in patients with 
mild hypertension.

Eryonucu B(1), Ulgen MS, Bilge M, Güler N, Güneş A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Medical Faculty, Yüzüncü Yil University, Van, 
Turkey. drbeyhan@yahoo.com

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the chronic effect of rilmenidine on 
time domain indexes of heart rate variability in patients with mild 
hypertension. Twenty patients (12 males, eight females; mean age, 47 yr; age 
range, 38-55 yr), with untreated and newly diagnosed mild hypertension were 
studied. There was no evidence of diseases other than hypertension. All patients 
received 1 mg of rilmenidine once daily. If the diastolic blood pressure was 
still greater than 90 mm Hg after 4 weeks of active treatment, the dose was 
increased to 2 mg once daily. Twenty-four hour ambulatory electrocardiograms 
were recorded before, and 4 and 12 weeks after the start of therapy. Time domain 
parameters of heart rate variability were calculated. Rilmenidine therapy 
determined a marked decrease in blood pressure. At 4 weeks, rilmenidine induced 
a significant reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressure and a further 
reduction was observed after 12 weeks. At 4 and 12 weeks, time domain parameters 
of heart rate variability and heart rate were not significantly different in the 
data obtained before therapy. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that the 
administration of rilmenidine to patients with mild essential hypertension 
induced significant reductions in blood pressure, without any significant 
changes in time domain parameters of heart rate variability.

DOI: 10.1177/000331970205300211
PMID: 11952111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
