1. Mol Pharmacol. 2002 Jul;62(1):181-91. doi: 10.1124/mol.62.1.181.

[125I]2-(2-chloro-4-iodo-phenylamino)-5-methyl-pyrroline (LNP 911), a 
high-affinity radioligand selective for I1 imidazoline receptors.

Greney H(1), Urosevic D, Schann S, Dupuy L, Bruban V, Ehrhardt JD, Bousquet P, 
Dontenwill M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie et Pharmacologie Cardiovasculaire, Facult√© de 
Medecine, Strasbourg, France.

The I1 subtype of imidazoline receptors (I1R) is a plasma membrane protein that 
is involved in diverse physiological functions. Available radioligands used so 
far to characterize the I(1)R were able to bind with similar affinities to 
alpha2-adrenergic receptors (alpha2-ARs) and to I1R. This feature was a major 
drawback for an adequate characterization of this receptor subtype. New 
imidazoline analogs were therefore synthesized and the present study describes 
one of these compounds, 2-(2-chloro-4-iodo-phenylamino)-5-methyl-pyrroline (LNP 
911), which was of high affinity and selectivity for the I1R. LNP 911 was 
radioiodinated and its binding properties characterized in different membrane 
preparations. Saturation experiments with [125I]LNP 911 revealed a single high 
affinity binding site in PC-12 cell membranes (K(D) = 1.4 nM; B(max) = 398 
fmol/mg protein) with low nonspecific binding. [125I]LNP 911 specific binding 
was inhibited by various imidazolines and analogs but was insensitive to 
guanosine-5'-O-(3-thio)triphosphate. The rank order of potency of some competing 
ligands [LNP 911, PIC, rilmenidine, 
4-chloro-2-(imidazolin-2-ylamino)-isoindoline (BDF 6143), lofexidine, and 
clonidine] was consistent with the definition of [125I]LNP 911 binding sites as 
I1R. However, other high-affinity I1R ligands (moxonidine, efaroxan, and 
benazoline) exhibited low affinities for these binding sites in standard binding 
assays. In contrast, when [125I]LNP 911 was preincubated at 4 degrees C, 
competition curves of moxonidine became biphasic. In this case, moxonidine 
exhibited similar high affinities on [125I]LNP 911 binding sites as on I1R 
defined with [125I]PIC. Moxonidine proved also able to accelerate the 
dissociation of [125I]LNP 911 from its binding sites. These results suggest the 
existence of an allosteric modulation at the level of the I1R, which seems to be 
corroborated by the dose-dependent enhancement by LNP 911 of the agonist effects 
on the adenylate cyclase pathway associated to I1R. Because [125I]LNP 911 was 
unable to bind to the I2 binding site and alpha2AR, our data indicate that 
[125I]LNP 911 is the first highly selective radioiodinated probe for I1R with a 
nanomolar affinity. This new tool should facilitate the molecular 
characterization of the I1 imidazoline receptor.

DOI: 10.1124/mol.62.1.181
PMID: 12065769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
