1. J Hum Hypertens. 2002 Aug;16(8):549-55. doi: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1001427.

Effect of the new centrally acting antihypertensive agent rilmenidine on 
endothelial and platelet function in essential hypertension.

Remková A(1), Kratochvíl'ová H.

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, Comenius University 
Bratislava, Slovak Republic. remkova@zoznam.sk

Comment in
    J Hum Hypertens. 2002 Aug;16(8):529-31.

The aim of the study was to investigate the effect of therapy by rilmenidine on 
endothelial and platelet function in 23 patients with the early stages of 
untreated essential hypertension. The measurements were carried out before 
therapy, after 1 week of placebo administration, after 1 week, after 1 month and 
after 3 months of therapy. After 1 week of therapy both systolic (SBP) and 
diastolic blood pressure (DBP) were reduced (P < 0.001) all over the study 
period. Plasma thrombomodulin (TM) and von Willebrand factor (vWF) as indicators 
of endothelial dysfunction, and plasma beta-thromboglobulin (betaTG) as an 
indicator of in vivo platelet activation, were investigated. Fibrinogen as a 
risk factor for vascular changes was also assayed. Platelet aggregation without 
stimulation (spontaneous, SPA) and induced by adrenaline (APA) was measured. A 
decrease of plasma vWF level after 1 month (P < 0.05) and after 3 months (P < 
0.05) of therapy was observed. We failed to find any changes of plasma TM and 
fibrinogen level. A reduction of platelet aggregation was evident after 1 week 
(SPA and APA, P < 0.05, respectively) but mainly after 1 month (SPA P < 0.01, 
APA P < 0.05) and after 3 months of therapy (SPA and APA, P < 0.01, 
respectively). It was accompanied by a decrease of plasma betaTG level after 3 
months of therapy (P < 0.05). The vasculoprotective and antiplatelet effect of 
rilmenidine may be important in terms of the favourable role of antihypertensive 
drugs in cardiovascular morbidity.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1001427
PMID: 12149660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
