1. Platelets. 2002 Jun;13(4):241-6. doi: 10.1080/0953371027000.

Characterization of [(3)H]idazoxan binding sites on human platelets.

Ruiz J(1), Barinagarrementeria G, Martín-Gómez JI, Callado LF, Meana JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of the Basque Country, E-48940 Leioa, 
Bizkaia, Spain.

Human platelets possess at least two non-adrenoceptor binding sites 
pharmacologically distinct from the alpha(2)-adrenoceptors. The effects of 
various imidazol(in)es on platelet aggregation have suggested that these 
compounds may interact with these non-adrenoceptor binding sites on platelets. 
[(3)H]Idazoxan is an antagonist of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptors frequently used to 
characterize imidazoline I(2) receptors. We evaluated the binding of 
[(3)H]idazoxan to human platelet membranes. In saturation experiments 
[(3)H]idazoxan (1.25-32 nM) recognized a single, saturable binding site with 
high affinity. However, competition assays revealed the presence of 
alpha(2A)-adrenoceptors and a non-adrenoceptor minor population (25-39%) 
recognized with high affinity by the imidazoline drug with low affinity for 
alpha(2)-adrenoceptors 2-BFI. After the addition of (-)adrenaline (5 microM) to 
mask alpha(2)-adrenoceptors, competition curves against [(3)H]idazoxan binding 
were biphasic. The imidazoline I(1) receptor-selective drugs, efaroxan and 
rilmenidine, recognized the minor component with high affinity, whereas the 
imidazoline I(2) receptor-selective drugs, guanabenz and 2-BFI, bound with high 
affinity to the major component. Further masking experiments in the presence of 
efaroxan (2 microM) or guanabenz (1 microM) confirmed that [(3)H]idazoxan labels 
two non-adrenoceptor binding sites pharmacologically compatible with imidazoline 
I(1) and I(2) receptors as well as alpha(2A)-adrenoceptors in human platelets.

DOI: 10.1080/0953371027000
PMID: 12189026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
