1. Free Radic Biol Med. 2002 Nov 15;33(10):1321-33. doi: 
10.1016/s0891-5849(02)01041-9.

Protective effects of rilmenidine and AGN 192403 on oxidative cytotoxicity and 
mitochondrial inhibitor-induced cytotoxicity in astrocytes.

Choi DH(1), Kim DH, Park YG, Chun BG, Choi SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
South Korea.

Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction are important aspects of 
pathogenesis, particularly in the brain, which is highly dependent on oxygen, 
and the protection of astrocytes is essential for neuroprotection. In this 
context, imidazoline drugs have been reported to be neuroprotective. Our recent 
study showed that imidazoline drugs, including guanabenz, inhibit the 
naphthazarin-induced oxidative cytotoxicity associated with lysosomal 
destabilization. We now report on a study into the protective effects of 
rilmenidine and AGN 192403, which have affinity for imidazoline-1 receptors, on 
the cytotoxicity induced by naphthazarin and inhibitors of mitochondrial 
respiration in astrocytes. Cytotoxicity was measured grossly by LDH release and 
by measuring changes in lysosomal membrane stability and features of 
mitochondrial membrane permeabilization. Naphthazarin-induced cytotoxicity was 
evidenced by the ordered development of lysosomal acridine orange relocation, 
decrease in mitochondrial potential, cytochrome c release, and caspase-9 
activation, and was inhibited by guanabenz, rilmenidine, and AGN 192403. 
Antimycin A and rotenone induced mitochondrial dysfunction primarily, and their 
cytotoxicities were inhibited only by AGN 192403. Rilmenidine and guanabenz may 
have a lysosomal stabilizing effect, which underlies their protective effects. 
AGN 192403 might affect the mitochondrial cell death cascades, and had a novel 
protective effect on the cytotoxicity associated with mitochondrial dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1016/s0891-5849(02)01041-9
PMID: 12419464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
