1. Vnitr Lek. 2002 Aug;48(8):724-9.

[Efficacy and tolerance of rilmenidine in patients with mild to moderate 
hypertension. Results of a Czech and Slovak 6-month multicenter study].

[Article in Czech]

Widimský J Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)III. interní klinika 1, lékarské fakulty UK a VFN, Praha.

AIM OF THE STUDY: To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of rilmenidine 
(Tenaxum) in the dose of 1-2 mg in patients with mild to moderate hypertension.
GROUP OF PATIENTS AND METHODS: 243 patients (53% men, 47% women, mean age 52 +/- 
11 years with mild to moderate essential hypertension were included into the 
study. Several cardiovascular risk factors for CAD were reported in the 
investigated group of patients: dyslipidaemia in 54%, obesity in 29%, diabetes 
mellitus in 14% and smoking in 17% of subjects. 87% of patients were subjects 
with newly diagnosed untreated or shortly (< 3 months) treated hypertension. In 
remaining hypertensives the antihypertensive therapy was withdrawn two weeks 
before the beginning of rilmenidine treatment. The following parameters were 
studied: BMI, sitting and upright casual blood pressure, heart rate and basal 
laboratory tests. If necesary, additional therapy with indapamide or perindopril 
was allowed.
RESULTS: Rilmenidine treatment resulted in normalisation of blood pressure (BP) 
or significant (decrease of SBP/DBP = 20/10 mm Hg) blood pressure decrease in 
69%, 22% of subjects, respectively. At the end of 6-month period significant BP 
decrease was noted: 134 +/- 6/83 +/- 5 mm Hg vs. 161 +/- 12/99 +/- 6 mm Hg (p < 
0.001). Marked BP decrease was observed already during first visit after active 
treatment for 3 weeks. Six months of rilmenidine treatment led to significant 
heart rate decrease (71/min. +/- 8 vs. 74/min. +/- 9, p < 0.01). No significant 
laboratory (plasma Na, K, creatinine, urea, glycemia, triglycerides, 
haematocrit) changes were reported after rilmenidine treatment with the only 
exception of mild, but significant plasma cholesterol decrease. Rilmenidine had 
very good acceptability and mild side effects were noted in small percentage of 
patients.
CONCLUSION: Rilmenidine is a centraly acting drug of IInd generation 
(imidazoline I1 receptors agonist) with potent antihypertensive and mild 
negative chronotropic effect. Rilmenidine has very good clinical tolerability 
without negative influence on metabolic parameters.

PMID: 12425202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
