1. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2003 Jan;36(1):85-95. doi:
10.1590/s0100-879x2003000100012.

Protective effects of centrally acting sympathomodulatory drugs on myocardial 
ischemia induced by sympathetic overactivity in rabbits.

Catelli M(1), Feldman J, Bousquet P, Tibirica E.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia e Farmacodin√¢mica, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, 
FIOCRUZ, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brasil.

It is recognized that an imbalance of the autonomic nervous system is involved 
in the genesis of ventricular arrhythmia and sudden death during myocardial 
ischemia. In the present study we investigated the effects of clonidine and 
rilmenidine, two centrally acting sympathomodulatory drugs, on an experimental 
model of centrally induced sympathetic hyperactivity in 
pentobarbital-anesthetized New Zealand albino rabbits of either sex (2-3 kg, N = 
89). We also compared the effects of clonidine and rilmenidine with those of 
propranolol, a beta-blocker, known to induce protective cardiovascular effects 
in patients with ischemic heart disease. Central sympathetic stimulation was 
achieved by intracerebroventricular injection of the excitatory amino acid 
L-glutamate (10 micro mol), associated with inhibition of nitric oxide synthesis 
with L-NAME (40 mg/kg, iv). Glutamate triggered ventricular arrhythmia and 
persistent ST-segment shifts in the ECG, indicating myocardial ischemia. The 
intracisternal administration of clonidine (1 microg/kg) and rilmenidine (30 
microg/kg) or of a nonhypotensive dose of rilmenidine (3 microg/kg) decreased 
the incidence of myocardial ischemia (25, 14 and 25%, respectively, versus 60% 
in controls) and reduced the mortality rate from 40% to 0.0, 0.0 and 12%, 
respectively. The total number of ventricular premature beats per minute fell 
from 30 +/- 9 in the control group to 7 +/- 3, 6 +/- 3 and 2 +/- 2, 
respectively. Intravenous administration of clonidine (10 micro g/kg), 
rilmenidine (300 microg/kg) or propranolol (500 microg/kg) elicited similar 
protective effects. We conclude that clonidine and rilmenidine present 
cardioprotective effects of central origin, which can be reproduced by 
propranolol, a lipophilic beta-blocking agent.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2003000100012
PMID: 12532231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
