1. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 2001 Apr;50(3):169-74. doi: 
10.1016/s0003-3928(01)00017-8.

[Comparison of the antihypertensive efficacy of and tolerance to 2 imidazoline 
receptor agonists: moxonidine and rilmenidine in monotherapy].

[Article in French]

Camilleri G(1), Portal B, Quiniou G, Clerson P.

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine interne et des maladies métaboliques et vasculaires, 
hôpital d'instruction des armées Robert Picqué, BP 28, 33998 Bordeaux Armées, 
France.

Two hundreds mild to moderate hypertensive patients (mean age 54 +/- 10, 115 
males, 85 females) were randomised in a multicentre, double blind, two parallel 
groups trial in order to compare the efficacy of moxonidine (0.2 mg od) and 
rilmenidine (1 mg od), two selective I1 receptor agonists. The dosage had to be 
shifted after a four-week treatment period (moxonidine 0.4 mg od or rilmenidine 
2 mg bid) if DBP > 90 mmHg. More than half of the patients had to be shifted to 
a double dose. The blood pressure was normalised (DBP < or = 90 mmHg) for 47% of 
the moxonidine patient's and 50% of the rilmenidine patients. The DBP decrease 
reached 7.3 mmHg in the moxonidine group and 8.0 mmHg in the rilmenidine group 
(P = 0.28). The SBP decrease was the same in the two groups (7.6 mmHg). Both 
drugs were well tolerated. The great affinity of moxonidine and rilmenidine for 
the I1 receptors and the weak affinity for the alpha 2 receptors were probably 
responsible of the small number of adverse events which are generally linked to 
the centrally acting antihypertensive drugs (asthenia, somnolence, oedema). 
Because moxonidine and rilmenidine are often to be prescribed at double dose and 
are often associated with other antihypertensives, moxonidine whose dosage could 
be shifted without having to increase the number of daily intakes could enhance 
the patient's comfort and make the compliance easier.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-3928(01)00017-8
PMID: 12555509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
