1. Fundam Clin Pharmacol. 2002 Aug;16(4):281-7. doi: 
10.1046/j.1472-8206.2002.00091.x.

Alpha2-adrenoceptor ligands inhibit alpha1-adrenoceptor-mediated contraction of 
isolated rat arteries.

Artigues-Varin C(1), Richard V, Varin R, Mulder P, Thuillez C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, INSERM EMI 9920, IFRMP no23, Rouen University 
Medical School, Rouen, France.

The experiments in this study were designed to investigate the potential 
relaxing effects of different compounds known as alpha2-imidazoline ligands 
(either agonists or antagonists) in isolated rat arteries, and to test the role 
of nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandins, in addition to the influence of the 
nature of the contracting agent in these responses. Segments of mesenteric 
arteries were isolated and mounted in a small vessel myograph (JP Trading, 
Aarhus, Denmark) for isometric tension recording, while segments of gracilis 
muscle arteries were cannulated and studied in the pressurized state using an 
arteriograph (Living Systems Instrumentation, Burlington, VT, USA). In 
phenylephrine precontracted mesenteric arteries, the agonists clonidine, BHT920, 
UK 14304, and rilmenidine, as well as the antagonists idazoxan, yohimbine and 
rauwolscine, all induced marked relaxations. Similarly, clonidine and idazoxan, 
both induced marked dilatations of phenylephrine preconstricted gracilis muscle 
arteries. In both mesenteric and gracilis muscle arteries, the responses to 
clonidine and idazoxan were not affected by the NO synthase inhibitor 
(omega)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NA, 10(-5) M) or the cyclooxygenase inhibitor 
diclofenac (10(-5) M). In mesenteric arteries, the responses to clonidine or 
idazoxan were similar when the arteries were precontracted by different 
alpha1-adrenoceptor agonists (phenylephrine, methoxamine or norepinephrine). In 
contrast, in arteries precontracted by PGF2alpha or endothelin, clonidine 
induced contractions while idazoxan induced very modest relaxations. Thus, 
alpha2-adrenoceptor/imidazoline ligands (whether agonists and antagonists) 
induce paradoxical relaxation of small mesenteric or gracilis muscle arteries of 
rats, which are not affected by NO-synthase or cyclooxygenase inhibition, and 
appear related to direct non specific interactions of the alpha2-imidazoline 
ligands with alpha1-adrenergic receptors in vascular smooth muscle.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1472-8206.2002.00091.x
PMID: 12570016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
