1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2003 Mar;367(3):328-31. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-003-0698-3. Epub 2003 Feb 14.

Molecular structure of the rabbit alpha2A-adrenoceptor: a contribution to the 
alpha2A-adrenoceptor versus I1 imidazoline receptor controversy.

Brüss M(1), Bönisch H, Göthert M, Molderings GJ.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Pharmakologie und Toxikologie, Universität Bonn, Reuterstrasse 
2b, 53113 Bonn, Germany.

In view of the high structural and pharmacological similarities between the 
alpha(2A)-adrenoceptors of humans and other mammalian species, it has been 
concluded, in particular, from experiments in rabbits that the (2A)-adrenoceptor 
is the exclusive site of action of central antihypertensive drugs, although the 
amino acid sequence of the alpha(2A)-adrenoceptor of just this species was 
unknown. Therefore, the aim of the present investigation was to determine the 
complete nucleotide sequence of the coding region of the rabbit 
alpha(2A)-adrenoceptor gene. Degenerate oligonucleotides corresponding to 
regions of the alpha(2A)-adrenoceptor conserved between rat and man were used in 
a polymerase chain reaction with genomic DNA prepared from rabbit. A 1,356-base 
pair product with an open reading frame of 1,353 base pairs was obtained that 
encodes a protein of 451 amino acids which is similar to the 
alpha(2A)-adrenoceptors of other mammals (man, pig, rat, mouse, guinea-pig and 
cattle) but not to their alpha(2B)- and alpha(2C)-adrenoceptor subtypes 
suggesting its classification as an alpha(2A)-adrenoceptor. However, the degree 
of amino acid sequence identity is, at best, only 80% and, thus, about 10% less 
than between the other mammalian species. Compared with the human sequence there 
are 81 substantial changes of amino acids. In conclusion, rabbit and human 
alpha(2A)-adrenoceptors substantially differ in their amino acid sequence which 
may explain the opposite pharmacodynamic properties of the central 
antihypertensive drug rilmenidine (alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonism and antagonism, 
respectively) reported in the literature. Hence, the present study supports the 
view that experiments with central antihypertensive drugs in rabbits are not 
reliably predictive for the site of action of such drugs in man.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-003-0698-3
PMID: 12644907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
