1. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2003 Jun;28(6):1140-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.npp.1300161. 
Epub 2003 Apr 2.

Prolonged activation of mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons by morphine withdrawal 
following clonidine: participation of imidazoline and norepinephrine receptors.

Georges F(1), Aston-Jones G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104, 
USA.

The alpha2 adrenoceptor (alpha2R) agonist clonidine is used as a treatment for 
heroin addiction. Substantial evidence indicates that dopaminergic and 
noradrenergic systems have key roles in opiate dependence and withdrawal but the 
possible interactions between these two pathways remain unclear. The objective 
of this study was to establish the effects of clonidine pretreatment on ventral 
tegmental area dopaminergic (VTA DA) neuronal activity during morphine 
withdrawal. Responses of VTA DA neurons to withdrawal precipitated by naltrexone 
were characterized in anesthetized rats using extracellular recordings. As 
expected, withdrawal produced a marked inhibition of VTA DA neuronal activity. 
However, pretreatment with clonidine prevented this inhibition induced by 
withdrawal, and instead produced a long-lasting activation of firing rate (+50%) 
and burst firing (+19%). In contrast, pretreatment with a more selective alpha2R 
agonist, UK14304, did not prevent the inhibition of VTA DA neuron activity 
during withdrawal. We tested whether the high affinity of clonidine for 
imidazoline-1 receptors (I1Rs) was responsible for the difference between these 
two alpha2R agonists. In morphine-dependent rats pretreated with rilmenidine 
(mixed alpha2R/I1R agonist), precipitation of withdrawal elicited a 22% increase 
of VTA DA impulse activity. The action of clonidine on I1Rs was studied by 
coadministering clonidine with RX821002, a specific alpha2R antagonist. 
Pretreatment with RX821002 plus clonidine prevented the inhibition of VTA DA 
activity during withdrawal but failed to produce excitation. These results 
indicate that the pharmacological effects of clonidine on VTA DA neurons during 
morphine withdrawal is related to actions on I1Rs as well as alpha2Rs.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.npp.1300161
PMID: 12700697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
