1. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2003 Aug;306(2):646-57. doi: 10.1124/jpet.103.050468.
Epub  2003 May 19.

The role of I(1)-imidazoline and alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors in the modulation 
of glucose metabolism in the spontaneously hypertensive obese rat model of 
metabolic syndrome X.

Velliquette RA(1), Ernsberger P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, 
Cleveland, OH 44106-4906, USA.

We examined glucose metabolism after I1-imidazoline (I1R) and alpha2-adrenergic 
receptor (alpha2AR) activation in an animal model of metabolic syndrome X. 
Fasted spontaneously hypertensive obese rats (SHROB) were given the I1R/alpha2AR 
agonists moxonidine and rilmenidine or the alpha2AR agonist guanabenz. Because 
of the dual specificity of moxonidine, its actions were split into adrenergic 
and nonadrenergic components by using selective antagonists: rauwolscine 
(alpha2AR) efaroxan (I1R/alpha2AR), or 
2-endo-amino-3-exo-isopropylbicyclo[2.2.1.]heptane (AGN 192403) (I1R). 
Hyperglycemia induced by moxonidine, rilmenidine, and guanabenz resulted from 
inhibition of insulin secretion. Similar responses were observed after oral 
dosing and in lean littermates. Glucagon was reduced by the I1R agonists 
(moxonidine, 32 +/- 5%; rilmenidine, 24 +/- 7%) but elevated by guanabenz (71 
+/- 32%). The hyperglycemic and hypoinsulinemic responses to moxonidine were 
blocked by rauwolscine. In contrast, rauwolscine potentiated the reduction in 
glucagon (39 +/- 6%). AGN 193402 blocked the glucagon response without affecting 
hyperglycemia and hypoinsulinemia. Efaroxan blocked all responses to moxonidine. 
When SHROB rats were treated with moxonidine 15 min before an oral glucose 
tolerance test, the glucose area under the curve (AUC) was increased. 
Antagonizing the alpha2AR component of moxonidine's action with rauwolscine 
improved glucose AUC 3-fold and facilitated the insulin secretory response and 
reduced glucagon secretion. Testing fasting glucose and insulin during 3 weeks 
of oral moxonidine revealed early hyperglycemia that later faded, and a 
progressive drop in fasting insulin. The acute hyperglycemia and hypoinsulinemia 
elicited by moxonidine and rilmenidine was mediated by alpha2AR, whereas I1R may 
reduce glucagon and increase insulin, particularly after a glucose load.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.103.050468
PMID: 12756274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
