1. Curr Med Res Opin. 2003;19(3):205-17. doi: 10.1185/030079903125001659.

Value of rilmenidine therapy and its combination with perindopril on blood 
pressure and left ventricular hypertrophy in patients with essential 
hypertension (VERITAS).

Farsang C(1), Lengyel M, Borbás S, Zorándi A, Dienes BS; VERITAS Investigators.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, St. Imre Teaching Hospital, Budapest, 
Hungary. hunghyp@axelero.hu

OBJECTIVES: The primary objective was to assess the effects of rilmenidine 
monotherapy and in combination with perindopril on blood pressure (BP) in 
patients assessed with grade 1 or 2 essential hypertension. The study also 
examined the effects of 2-year rilmenidine monotherapy on left ventricular 
hypertrophy (LVH) and on diastolic function of the left ventricle, along with 
the effects of rilmenidine on left ventricular mass index in hypertensive 
patients with no LVH, and the relationship between BP reduction and any change 
in LVH.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Mild-to-moderate hypertensive patients (n = 500) 
were enrolled in a multicentre 2-year open study and treated with rilmenidine 
(1-2 mg per day) monotherapy or rilmenidine plus perindopril (2, 4 or 8 mg per 
day) if control of hypertension was not achieved with rilmenidine monotherapy 
within 12 weeks. Blood pressure was recorded at regular intervals by the 
investigators and LVH measured by centralised single-blind echocardiographic 
reading.
RESULTS: Rilmenidine monotherapy (average dose 1.42 mg) produced a significant 
decrease in BP from the baseline of 163 +/- 10/100 +/- 5 mmHg to 134 +/- 10/86 
+/- 7 mmHg at 1 year and to 136 +/- 10/84 +/- 7 mmHg at 2 years (p < 0.001 for 
both). In 188 patients with LVH, the left ventricular mass index was 
significantly reduced from 161.4 +/- 30.5 to 131.3 +/- 26.5 at 1 year and to 
134.1 +/- 26.0 g/m(2) at 2 years (p < 0.001 for both). Addition of perindopril 
to those patients whose BP was not normalised by rilmenidine monotherapy after 
12 weeks further decreased BP significantly from 150 +/- 13/93 +/- 8 mmHg to 142 
+/- 14/89 +/- 7 mmHg at the end of the 2nd year.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term rilmenidine monotherapy was shown to be efficient in 
controlling BP and in reducing LVH. The addition of perindopril to rilmenidine 
monotherapy proved to be effective and well tolerated in those patients who did 
not respond to rilmenidine alone.

DOI: 10.1185/030079903125001659
PMID: 12803735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
