1. Pediatr Nephrol. 2003 Aug;18(8):814-9. doi: 10.1007/s00467-003-1169-2. Epub
2003  Jun 13.

Arterial hypertension with brachydactyly in a 15-year-old boy.

Litwin M(1), Jurkiewicz E, Nowak K, Kościesza A, Grenda R, Malczyk K, Kościesza 
I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology and Kidney Transplantation, The Children's Memorial 
Health Institute, Al Dzieci Polskich 20, 04-736, Warsaw, Poland. 
litwin@czd.waw.pl

Autosomal dominant brachydactyly with hypertension is the only form of monogenic 
hypertension which is not sodium dependent. The disease is characterized by 
brachydactyly type E, short stature, arterial hypertension and aberrant loop of 
posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) causing neurovascular conflict. So 
far the syndrome was described in one family in Turkey and two in Canada. We 
report a case of a 15-year-old boy who was admitted because of arterial 
hypertension 160/100 mmHg. He complained also of attacks of bilateral numbness 
of hands with deterioration of visual field. Examination revealed short stature 
(156 cm) and bone deformities of hands and feet consistent with brachydactyly 
type E. Ophthalmoscopy showed mild narrowing of retinal arteries. Serum 
electrolytes, blood gases, and renal function were normal. Renin activity and 
aldosterone concentrations were raised, and 24-h urinary excretion of 
catecholamines and urinary steroid profile were in normal range. Renal Doppler 
ultrasound was normal, but renal scintigraphy suggested vascular changes in the 
left kidney. Echocardiographic examination, besides mild left ventricular 
hypertrophy, was normal. Magnetic resonance angiography (angio-MR) revealed 
bilateral abnormal PICA loops and neurovascular conflict. Spiral angiotomography 
of renal arteries revealed narrow additional left renal artery. Both 
nonconsanguineous parents and younger brother were healthy, with normal height, 
without bone deformities, and had normal intracranial vessels. Amlodipine and 
metoprolol were given, and blood pressure lowered to 143/87. Adding rilmenidine 
gave no effect and enalapril was then added. It led to further improvement in 
blood pressure control. To our knowledge, this is the first pediatric 
description of a sporadic form of autosomal dominant brachydactyly with 
hypertension with abnormalities of brain and renal arteries.

DOI: 10.1007/s00467-003-1169-2
PMID: 12811651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
