1. Presse Med. 1992 Dec 12;21(43):2089-93.

[Treatment with rilmenidine 1 mg per day: time-lag to maximum response. A 
multicenter ambulatory study. Le Groupe Français d'étude Multicentrique 
d'Hyperium].

[Article in French]

Passeron J(1), Guillet C.

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine interne, Groupe Hospitalier Paul-Brousse, Villejuif.

Forty-four placebo-resistant patients (mean age: 59.2 +/- 2.1 years; mean 
weight: 70.14 +/- 1.95 kg: mean supine diastolic pressure: 101.6 +/- 0.70 mmHg) 
were treated during 8 weeks (D0-D56) with a single 1 mg tablet of rilmenidine 
taken every morning. The patients were seen at intervals of 14 days until their 
diastolic pressure returned to a normal value of 90 mmHg. Once this goal was 
achieved, they were not seen again until D56. The actuarial survival curve 
enabled us to evaluate, at a given moment, the cumulative number of normalized 
patients and the accuracy of this evaluation (confidence interval). After two 
weeks of rilmenidine treatment, 66 percent of the patients were normalized. The 
cumulative proportion of normalized patients increased with time, from 80 
percent at D28 to 85 percent at D42 and 98 percent at D56. Confidence intervals 
were relatively small. Although these results were much better than those 
obtained in previous studies of this drug, our study shows that blood pressure 
was rapidly normalized in the majority of hypertensive patients by a daily 1 mg 
dose of rilmenidine and that doubling this dosage after two weeks of treatment 
is not necessarily justified, since the percentage of normalized patients 
increases up to 98 percent after eight weeks of treatment. The small number of 
adverse effects and the good patient's compliance with treatment (evaluated by 
tablet counts and rilmenidine plasma level values) testify that this drug 
respects the quality of life.

PMID: 1297118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
