1. Therapie. 1992 Nov;47(6):525-30.

[Pharmacology of imidazoline receptors and cardiovascular regulation. 
Imidazoline receptors and blood pressure].

[Article in French]

Bousquet P(1), Bricca G, Dontenwill M, Feldman J, Belcourt A, Tibiriça E.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Pharmacologie Cardiovasculaire et Rénale, Faculté de Médecine, 
CNRS URA589, Université Louis-Pasteur, Strasbourg.

To explain the central hypotensive action of clonidine- and rilmenidine-type 
drugs, a recent hypothesis suggested the involvement of imidazoline preferring 
receptors (IPR) insensitive to catecholamines. Binding studies performed on 
neuronal membranes prepared from the human Nucleus Reticularis Lateralis area 
(NRL) showed that rilmenidine was twice as selective as clonidine for the 
medullary IPRs. Voltammetric experiments revealed that these substances 
preferentially inhibited the activity of catecholaminergic neurones within the 
NRL, privileged site for their hypotensive action, rather than the activity of 
the neurones of the Locus Coeruleus (LC) where these drugs induce their sedative 
effect. The mechanism of the inhibitory action of these compounds upon the 
neurones of the NRL definitely involved IPRs when the inhibition of the LC 
neurones involved classical alpha-2-adrenoceptors. These functional studies also 
showed that rilmenidine exhibited a selectivity twice as important as clonidine, 
the reference substance. Poly- and monoclonal anticlonidine antibodies 
cross-reacting only with imidazolines allowed to detect and immunoreactive 
substance in the human serum. The amounts of that substance thus measured were 
higher in some hypertensive patients than in normotensive subjects. The identity 
of that immunoreactive substance with "endazoline", the endogenous ligand of the 
IPRs, is presently analysed.

PMID: 1301644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
