1. Clin Exp Hypertens A. 1992;14(5):815-35. doi: 10.3109/10641969209036221.

Do centrally-acting antihypertensive drugs act at non-adrenergic as well as 
alpha-2 adrenoceptor sites?

Hamilton CA(1), Yakubu MA, Howie CA, Reid JL.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Medicine and Therapeutics Western Infirmary, 
Glasgow.

Rabbits were treated with guanabenz, clonidine and rilmenidine for 6 days via 
osmotic minipumps. Blood pressure, heart rate and responses to intracisternal 
clonidine were measured after 1 and 6 days treatment. Radioligand binding to 
forebrain and hindbrain membranes after 6 days treatment was examined using 
[3H]yohimbine to measure the number of adrenergic binding sites and 
[3H]clonidine and [3H]idazoxan to assess nonadrenergic imidazoline sites. No 
change in nonadrenergic imidazoline binding was observed but adrenergic binding 
was decreased in forebrain and hindbrain by guanabenz and in hindbrain by 
clonidine treatment. Resting heart rate was decreased after 1 day's treatment 
with partial recovery by day 6. At this time heart rate significantly reduced in 
the clonidine and rilmenidine treated groups but not the guanabenz group. No 
significant change in baseline blood pressure was observed in normotensive 
rabbits. Both depressor and bradycardia responses to intracisternal clonidine 
were attenuated after 1 day's dosing but only depressor responses were 
influenced after 6 days. Blood pressure and heart rate thus appeared to be 
regulated independently. It is possible that imidazoline receptors predominate 
in the central control of blood pressure while central alpha-2 adrenoceptors 
play a greater part in heart rate regulation.

DOI: 10.3109/10641969209036221
PMID: 1327589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
