1. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 1992 Jan;12(1):53-63. doi: 10.1038/jcbfm.1992.7.

Reduction in focal cerebral ischemia by agents acting at imidazole receptors.

Maiese K(1), Pek L, Berger SB, Reis DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Neuroscience, Cornell University Medical College, 
New York, New York 10021.

Treatment with the alpha 2-adrenergic antagonist idazoxan (IDA) can provide 
protection from global cerebral ischemia. However, IDA also recognizes another 
class of receptors, termed imidazole (IM) receptors, which differ from alpha 
2-adrenergic receptors and are responsible for the hypotensive actions of some 
centrally acting agents such as the oxazole rilmenidine (RIL). We therefore 
sought to determine whether RIL, an agent highly selective for IM receptors, 
offered protection from focal cerebral ischemia elicited in rat by ligation of 
the middle cerebral artery (MCA). We compared the effects of RIL with the 
effects of IDA and the selective non-IM alpha 2-antagonist SKF 86466 (SKF). In 
addition, we examined whether the neuroprotective effects of RIL and IDA could 
be attributed to changes in local CBF (LCBF). The MCA was occluded and animals 
either received immediate administration of drug while arterial pressure was 
maintained for 1 h or had local CBF increased to 200% of control for 1 h by 
hypercapnia or hypertension. RIL elicited a significant dose-dependent 
preservation of tissue to 33% of control at optimal dose (0.75 mg/kg). IDA (3 
mg/kg) significantly reduced the size of ischemic infarction by 22%. In 
contrast, SKF (15 mg/kg) as well as doubling of LCBF did not preserve ischemic 
tissue. We conclude that both RIL and IDA can reduce focal ischemic infarction 
but that the mechanism does not appear secondary to antagonism of alpha 
2-adrenergic receptors or elevation of LCBF. Occupation of IM receptors, either 
in the ischemic zone or at remote brain sites, may be responsible for 
neuroprotection of RIL and IDA.

DOI: 10.1038/jcbfm.1992.7
PMID: 1345758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
