1. Br J Pharmacol. 1992 Mar;105(3):535-41. doi:
10.1111/j.1476-5381.1992.tb09015.x.

Sympathoinhibitory effects of rilmenidine may be mediated by sites located below 
the brainstem.

Sannajust F(1), Barrès C, Koenig-Bérard E, Sassard J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Clinical Pharmacology, URA-CNRS 606, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, Lyon, France.

1. To determine the site of action of rilmenidine, we examined its effets on 
arterial blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR) and postganglionic renal 
sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA) after intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) 
administration (300 micrograms kg-1), in groups (all n = 6) of conscious and 
freely moving, pentobarbitone-anaesthetized and pentobarbitone-anaesthetized and 
spinally transected, fifteen week-old male spontaneously hypertensive rats 
(SHRs). 2. In conscious SHRs, which exhibited a low sympathetic nerve activity 
(RSNA: 3.4 +/- 0.9 muV), rilmenidine was inactive on systolic BP (SBP), 
diastolic BP (DBP), HR and RSNA. 3. In intact pentobarbitone-anaesthetized SHRs, 
which exhibited an elevated sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA: 10.6 +/- 0.9 muV), 
rilmenidine exerted potent antihypertensive (delta SBP: -37 +/- 4%; delta DBP: 
-43 +/- 6%), bradycardic (delta HR: -32 +/- 3%) and sympathoinhibitory (delta 
RSNA: -68 +/- 9%) activities. 4. In pentobarbitone-anaesthetized SHRs with 
cervical spinal cord transection, BP was markedly decreased and sympathetic 
nerve activity (RSNA: 10.3 +/- 3.1 muV) returned to the level observed in 
conscious SHRs (RSNA: 3.6 +/- 0.5 muV). In these conditions, rilmenidine 
remained sympathoinhibitory (delta RSNA: -74 +/- 5%). 5. In conclusion, we have 
shown that pentobarbitone-anaesthesia enhances the peripheral sympathetic tone 
by a central action, as the spinal cord transection allows RSNA to return to 
normal levels and that, spinal or ganglionic structures could be a major site of 
the sympathoinhibitory action of rilmenidine.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1992.tb09015.x
PMCID: PMC1908468
PMID: 1352718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
