1. Br J Pharmacol. 1992 Mar;105(3):542-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1476-5381.1992.tb09016.x.

Influence of anaesthesia on the cardiovascular effects of rilmenidine and 
clonidine in spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Sannajust F(1), Cerutti C, Koenig-BÃ©rard E, Sassard J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Clinical Pharmacology, URA-CNRS 606, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, Lyon, France.

1. The acute cardiovascular effects of two alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists, 
rilmenidine and clonidine, were studied in 15-week-old male spontaneously 
hypertensive rats (SHRs). The effects of these drugs were compared with 
intravenous (i.v.) and intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration in 
conscious and pentobarbitone-anaesthetized SHRs, in which aortic blood pressure 
(BP) was continuously recorded. 2. In conscious SHRs, i.v. doses of either 
rilmenidine (30, 100, 300 micrograms kg-1) or clonidine (3, 10, 30 micrograms 
kg-1) induced dose-dependent short-lasting increases in BP followed by moderate 
decreases associated with bradycardia, while the same three doses of both drugs 
given i.c.v. were devoid of BP and heart rate (HR) effects. 3. 
Pentobarbitone-anaesthesia increased the sympathetic control of BP and 
suppressed the cardiac baroreflex sensitivity. 4. In anaesthetized SHRs, i.v. 
injections of the same 3 doses of rilmenidine and clonidine induced a slight 
increase in BP, rapidly followed by profound and long-lasting BP and HR 
decreases. Surprisingly, when given i.c.v., these 3 doses lowered BP and HR to 
the same extent but in a more progressive manner. 5. The lack of efficacy of 
both drugs in conscious SHRs after the i.c.v. administration of i.v. active 
doses and the lack of more marked and rapid effects in anaesthetized SHRs, after 
i.c.v. than after i.v. injections, question the involvement of a major central 
site of action for these antihypertensive alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists. 
Moreover, these results show that the cardiovascular effects of these drugs are 
profoundly influenced by baseline sympathetic nervous system activity which is 
enhanced by pentobarbitone-anaesthesia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1992.tb09016.x
PMCID: PMC1908436
PMID: 1352719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
