1. Eur J Pharmacol. 1992 Jul 21;218(1):101-8. doi: 10.1016/0014-2999(92)90152-t.

Alpha 2-adrenoceptor and catecholamine-insensitive binding sites for 
[3H]rilmenidine in membranes from rat cerebral cortex.

King PR(1), Gundlach AL, Jarrott B, Louis WJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Melbourne, Department of Medicine, Austin Hospital, Heidelberg, 
Victoria, Australia.

The kinetic and pharmacological characteristics of the binding of the oxazoline 
antihypertensive drug, [3H]rilmenidine, to membranes of rat cerebral cortex have 
been determined. Computerised resolution of curvi-linear, equilibrium binding 
isotherms was consistent with the existence of two distinct binding sites for 
[3H]rilmenidine: Kd 17.3 +/- 7.41 nM, Bmax 0.197 +/- 0.06 pmol/mg protein and Kd 
254 +/- 48 nM, Bmax 1.59 +/- 0.08 pmol/mg protein. Moreover, the resolution of 
two association and dissociation rates also suggested the existence of two 
binding site populations. Drug inhibition studies revealed that specific binding 
of [3H]rilmenidine (2 nM) was only inhibited by a maximum of 50% by the 
catecholamines, adrenaline and noradrenaline, but was completely inhibited by 
some oxazolines, by guanabenz (a guanidino drug) and by several imidazoline 
compounds including naphazoline, oxymetazoline and clonidine. Binding isotherms 
for these drugs were also best fit by a two-site model. The relative Ki values 
at the high affinity site for [3H]rilmenidine and the number of these high 
affinity sites are consistent with this site being an alpha 2-adrenoceptor. The 
high affinity of oxymetazoline and low affinity of prazosin for high affinity 
[3H]rilmenidine binding sites together with the rank order of potency of 
oxymetazoline greater than phentolamine greater than SKF 104078 greater than 
ARC-239 greater than prazosin suggest that [3H]rilmenidine binds to the alpha 2A 
sub-type of adrenoceptor. Computer-resolved Ki values for drugs at the larger 
number of lower affinity binding sites were very similar to Ki values determined 
in the presence of 10 microM adrenaline (used to block alpha 2-adrenoceptor 
binding).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(92)90152-t
PMID: 1356804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
