1. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1992 Jun;19(6):945-52. doi: 
10.1097/00005344-199206000-00016.

Central cardiovascular effects of rilmenidine and neuropeptide Y in the 
conscious spontaneously hypertensive rat: haemodynamic and biochemical evidence 
for a negative interaction.

McAuley MA(1), Reid JL, Macrae IM.

Author information:
(1)University of Glasgow, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Gardiner 
Institute, Scotland.

The possible cardiovascular and biochemical interactions between the imidazoline 
ligand rilmenidine, a novel antihypertensive agent, and neuropeptide Y (NPY) 
were examined in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Rilmenidine (25-225 
micrograms/kg) and NPY (1.7-15 micrograms/kg) both produced a significant, 
dose-dependent reduction in blood pressure (BP) after intracisternal (i.c.) 
administration in conscious SHR. When submaximal doses of rilmenidine (25 
micrograms/kg) and NPY (1.7 micrograms/kg) were coadministered i.c., the 
resultant hypotension and bradycardia was less than either individual response 
and significantly less than the sum of their individual responses, suggesting 
the existence of an inhibitory interaction between these agents. To determine 
whether this interaction was evident at the second-messenger level, the effect 
of these agents on cyclic AMP levels was investigated in slices from the medulla 
oblongata of SHR. NPY (10(-6) and 10(-7) M) significantly inhibited 
forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP production. Rilmenidine (10(-8)-10(-5) M) itself 
had no significant effect on forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP levels in this 
system, but rilmenidine (10(-6) M) attenuated the inhibitory effect of NPY 
(10(-6) M) on cyclic AMP production. Thus, an inhibitory interaction between 
rilmenidine and NPY was observed at the hemodynamic and second-messenger level 
in the SHR.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-199206000-00016
PMID: 1376817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
