1. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2003 Sep;27(9):1471-80. doi: 
10.1097/01.ALC.0000086062.95225.0C.

Effect of ethanol on reductions in norepinephrine electrochemical signal in the 
rostral ventrolateral medulla and hypotension elicited by I1-receptor activation 
in spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Mao L(1), Li G, Abdel-Rahman AA.

Author information:
(1)Division of pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, University of Missouri-Kansas 
City, Kansas City, USA.

The mechanism of the antagonistic hemodynamic interaction between ethanol and 
centrally acting sympatholytics is not known. In this study, we tested the 
hypothesis that the imidazoline (I1)-receptor modulation of norepinephrine (NE) 
release within the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) plays a pivotal role in 
this clinically relevant hemodynamic interaction. METHOD In anesthetized 
spontaneously hypertensive rats, the effects of centrally acting sympatholytics 
on RVLM NE electrochemical signal were investigated by in vivo electrochemistry 
along with cardiovascular responses in the absence and presence of ethanol. In 
vivo microdialysis in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats was used to 
confirm the electrochemical findings. RESULTS Clonidine (30 microg/kg, 
intravenously) or rilmenidine (400, 600, or 800 microg/kg) significantly reduced 
RVLM NE electrochemical signal (index of neuronal activity) and mean arterial 
pressure; rilmenidine effects were dose-related, and ethanol (1 g/kg) 
counteracted these responses. Ethanol (1 g/kg) pretreatment increased both RVLM 
NE electrochemical signal and blood pressure but did not influence the 
reductions in both variables elicited by subsequently administered clonidine. 
The alpha2-adrenergic antagonist 2-methoxyidazoxan (30 microg/kg) counteracted 
rilmenidine (800 microg/kg)-evoked responses. In vivo microdialysis in conscious 
spontaneously hypertensive rats confirmed the electrochemical findings since 
clonidine- (30 microg/kg, intravenously) evoked reductions in RVLM NE and the 
associated hypotension were counteracted by ethanol (1 g/kg). CONCLUSIONS (1) 
Ethanol counteracts centrally mediated hypotension, at least in part, by 
increasing RVLM NE; (2) the interaction involves the I1 receptor modulation of 
RVLM neuronal activity; (3) the alpha2-adrenergic receptor contributes to the 
electrochemical and cardiovascular effects of high doses of rilmenidine, and (4) 
the RVLM is a neuroanatomical target for systemically administered ethanol.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ALC.0000086062.95225.0C
PMID: 14506409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
