1. Jpn Heart J. 2003 Sep;44(5):693-704. doi: 10.1536/jhj.44.693.

Short-term effects of rilmenidine on left ventricular hypertrophy and systolic 
and diastolic function in patients with essential hypertension: comparison with 
an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and a calcium antagonist.

Koldas L(1), Ayan F, Ikitimur B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Istanbul University Cerrahpasa Medical Faculty, 
Istanbul, Turkey.

The short-term (three months) effects of rilmenidine on systemic hypertension 
induced left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and left ventricular systolic and 
diastolic functions in comparison with those of perindopril and nifedipine-slow 
release (SR) formulation were studied. The short-term effects of rilmenidine on 
biochemical parameters and lipid profiles were evaluated. Sixty patients (39 
men, 21 women) with a mean age of 59 +/- 14 years and with mild to moderate 
systemic arterial hypertension were enrolled in three groups. The first group 
received 1 mg/day of rilmenidine, the second group 4 mg/day of perindopril, and 
the third group 20 mg/day of nifedipine SR. All drugs induced a similar decrease 
in systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP) values. Left ventricular mass 
(LVM) and LVM index decreased equally in all groups associated with a 
significant increase in the E/A ratio. The ratio between the reduction in LVM 
and decrease in mean arterial pressure (LVM/mmHg) was higher in groups 1 and 2. 
Negative correlations between LVM and LVMI. E/A, and the dv/dt ratio were 
obtained. Rilmenidine did not change the blood chemistry and lipid profile 
values. Despite its neutral effect on lipid profile and biochemical parameters. 
rilmenidine is as effective as perindopril and nifedipine in controlling 
hypertension and decreasing left ventricular hypertrophy.

DOI: 10.1536/jhj.44.693
PMID: 14587651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
