1. Am J Cardiovasc Drugs. 2001;1(5):321-6. doi: 10.2165/00129784-200101050-00002.

Centrally acting imidazoline I1-receptor agonists: do they have a place in the 
management of hypertension?

van Zwieten PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacotherapy, Cardiology and Cardiothoracic Surgery, 
Academic Medical Centre, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Centrally acting imidazoline I(1)-receptor agonists such as moxonidine and 
rilmenidine induce peripheral sympathoinhibition via the stimulation of 
hypothetical I(1)-receptors in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Because of a 
rather weak affinity for alpha(2)-adrenoceptors, the use of these agents is 
associated with a lower incidence of adverse reactions, such as sedation and dry 
mouth, compared with classic centrally acting alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonists 
(clonidine, guanfacine, methyldopa). The antihypertensive efficacy of moxonidine 
and rilmenidine is well documented, and they display a favorable hemodynamic 
profile. Their tolerability is better than that of the aforementioned centrally 
acting antihypertensive agents. However, long-term outcome data for moxonidine 
and rilmenidine are not available, and neither is a quantitative evaluation of 
their adverse effects. There exists some uncertainty with respect to the 
identity of the imidazoline I(1)-receptor, which has so far not been cloned. 
Furthermore, it would be desirable to develop highly selective I(1)-receptor 
agonists as successor drugs to moxonidine and rilmenidine. Although available 
data indicate that I(1)-receptor agonists are effective in patients with 
hypertension, comparative data versus agents such as beta-blockers, diuretics, 
calcium channel antagonists and ACE inhibitors are required to establish their 
position in the treatment of hypertension. Finally, I(1)-receptor agonists have 
potential in the treatment of patients with CHF and those with the metabolic 
syndrome; syndrome X.

DOI: 10.2165/00129784-200101050-00002
PMID: 14728014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
