1. Hypertension. 2004 Mar;43(3):636-42. doi: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000116301.02975.aa. 
Epub 2004 Jan 26.

Sympathetic responses to stress and rilmenidine in 2K1C rabbits: evidence of 
enhanced nonvascular effector mechanism.

Head GA(1), Burke SL.

Author information:
(1)Baker Heart Research Institute, Commercial Road Prahran, St. Kilda Road 
Central, Melbourne, Victoria, 8008, Australia. geoff.head@baker.edu.au

We determined whether the sympathetic excitatory responses to environmental 
stressors and the sympathoinhibitory responses to rilmenidine are altered by 
renovascular hypertension. Rabbits were made hypertensive with a clip on the 
right renal artery, and a left renal nerve recording electrode was implanted. 
After 3 or 6 weeks, the animals were given air-jet stress and loud noise stress 
before and after intravenous rilmenidine. Three and 6 weeks after renal 
clipping, mean arterial pressure was 28% and 36% greater than preclip values. 
Air-jet stress elicited a marked increase in renal sympathetic nerve activity, 
mean arterial pressure, and heart rate. Renal sympathetic nerve activity 
responses were much greater in hypertensive rabbits, but the pressor responses 
were similar to those observed in normotensive animals. Acute administration of 
rilmenidine decreased blood pressure more in hypertensive animals but with a 
much lesser inhibition of sympathetic activity. Rilmenidine markedly reduced 
increased sympathetic activity during air-jet stress in 3-week clipped rabbits 
but to a lesser extent in the other groups. These studies show that while 
sympathetic responses to stress were markedly enhanced in renal clip 
hypertensive rabbits, they did not result in greater pressor responses, thus 
suggesting that vascular neuroeffector mechanisms were not altered. By contrast, 
the increased effects of rilmenidine suggest a much greater contribution to the 
hypertension by the sympathetic nervous system, but one that is caused by an 
enhanced "nonvascular" neuroeffector mechanism. As such, sympathoinhibitory 
agents such as rilmenidine are very suitable and very effective agents for the 
treatment of renovascular hypertension.

DOI: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000116301.02975.aa
PMID: 14744928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
