1. Eur J Pharmacol. 2004 Feb 6;485(1-3):251-62. doi:
10.1016/j.ejphar.2003.11.075.

Chronic ethanol administration attenuates imidazoline I1 receptor- or alpha 
2-adrenoceptor-mediated reductions in blood pressure and hemodynamic variability 
in hypertensive rats.

El-Mas MM(1), Abdel-Rahman AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, East Carolina University, 
353, Greenville, NC 27858-4353, USA.

Our previous studies have demonstrated that acute ethanol administration 
counteracts imidazoline I(1) receptor but not alpha(2)-adrenoceptor-mediated 
hypotension in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). In the present study, we 
investigated the effect of chronic ethanol administration on hypotensive 
responses elicited by acute administration of selective imidazoline I(1) 
receptor (rilmenidine) or alpha(2)-adrenoceptor (alpha-methyldopa) agonist along 
with ethanol effects on: (i) locomotor activity and (ii) time-domain indices of 
variability in blood pressure (standard deviation of mean arterial pressure) and 
heart rate (standard deviation of beat-to-beat intervals and root mean square of 
successive differences in R-R intervals). Hemodynamic and locomotor responses 
elicited by rilmenidine or alpha-methyldopa were assessed in radiotelemetered 
ethanol-fed (2.5% or 5% w/v, 12 week) and control SHR. In control SHR, i.p. 
rilmenidine (600 microg/kg) or alpha-methyldopa (100 mg/kg) significantly 
reduced blood pressure. Rilmenidine had no effect on heart rate whereas 
alpha-methyldopa elicited a biphasic response (tachycardia followed by 
bradycardia). Blood pressure and heart rate oscillations were also reduced by 
both drugs, which may conform to sympathoinhibition. The hypotensive effect of 
rilmenidine or alpha-methyldopa was significantly attenuated by ethanol feeding 
(2.5% or 5%) in a concentration-dependent manner. In addition, ethanol 
attenuated alpha-methyldopa-evoked reduction in heart rate, but not blood 
pressure, variability in marked contrast to attenuating rilmenidine-evoked 
reductions in blood pressure, but not heart rate, variability. These findings 
demonstrate that, unlike its acute effects, chronic ethanol attenuates both 
imidazoline I(1) receptor and alpha(2)-adrenoceptor-mediated hypotension whereas 
its effect on hemodynamic variability depended on the nature of the hypotensive 
stimulus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2003.11.075
PMID: 14757148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
