1. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2004 Feb;56(2):213-20. doi: 10.1211/0022357022593.

The effects of imidazoline agents on the aggregation of human platelets.

Pinthong D(1), Songsermsakul P, Rattanachamnong P, Kendall DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Science, Mahidol University, Rama 6 
Road, Rajthevee, Bangkok 10400, Thailand. scdpt@mahidol.ac.th

Clonidine (2-[(2,6-dichlorophenyl)amino]-2-imidazoline), an imidazoline 
alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist, is known to exert complex effects on human 
platelet aggregation distinct from those of the catecholamines, which are 
non-imidazoline alpha-adrenoceptor agonists. This study has investigated the 
aggregatory/anti-aggregatory effects of various imidazolines on human platelets. 
Blood samples were taken from normal volunteers and platelet aggregation was 
assessed by a turbidimetric method using a Chronolog aggregometer. Noradrenaline 
(2 microM) and adenosine diphosphate (1 microM) were used as aggregating agents. 
The results showed that, with the exception of moxonidine, all of the 
imidazoline agents used (with or without alpha(2)-adrenoceptor activity) were 
able to inhibit noradrenaline-induced platelet aggregation. Compared with the 
non-imidazoline alpha(2)-adrenergic antagonist, yohimbine, the rank order of 
potency was: efaroxan (IC50 = 3.07 x 10(-8) M) > idazoxan (IC50 = 1.74 x 10(-7) 
M) > tolazoline (IC50 = 3.90 x 10(-7) M) > clonidine (IC50 = 1.49 x 10(-6) M) 
congruent with antazoline (IC50 = 1.77 x 10(-6) M) > yohimbine (IC50 = 3.19 x 
10(-6) M) > rilmenidine (IC50 = 1.27 x 10(-5) M) > moxonidine (IC50 > 10(-4) M). 
Clonidine-displacing substance (CDS), a putative endogenous ligand at 
imidazoline receptors, was found to inhibit noradrenaline-induced platelet 
aggregation. Harmane, norharmane and agmatine, putative candidates for the 
active principle of CDS, had no effect on noradrenaline-induced platelet 
aggregation. In contrast to noradrenaline-induced aggregation, ADP-induced 
platelet aggregation was neither potentiated nor inhibited by the imidazoline 
agents, with the exceptions of clonidine and moxonidine. In conclusion, most 
imidazoline agents effectively inhibit noradrenaline-induced human platelet 
aggregation. The lack of effect of moxonidine and the proposed endogenous 
ligands suggested this effect was mediated by an 'atypical' non-adrenoceptor 
imidazoline-binding site. The results indicated an anti-aggregatory role of 
imidazoline compounds on noradrenaline-induced human platelet aggregation. In 
addition, CDS might be an endogenous modulator that prevented platelet 
hyper-reactivity to catecholamine stimulation.

DOI: 10.1211/0022357022593
PMID: 15005880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
