1. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 2004 Mar;43(3):394-401. doi: 
10.1097/00005344-200403000-00010.

Chronic treatment with rilmenidine in spontaneously hypertensive rats: 
differences between two schedules of administration.

Monassier L(1), Greney H, Thomas L, Bousquet P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie et de Pharmacologie Cardiovasculaire, Université 
Louis Pasteur, Faculté de Médecine, Strasbourg, France. 
Laurent.Monassier@medecin.u-strasbg.fr

Rilmenidine is one of the lead compounds of the second generation of centrally 
acting antihypertensive drugs. In the first part of this study, 2 routes of 
administration of chronic treatment (1 month) with rilmenidine were compared. In 
conscious and pentobarbital-anesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), 
rilmenidine was delivered intraperitoneally either 250 microg/kg b.i.d. or 500 
microg/kg/d infusion by means of minipumps. The possibility of 
rilmenidine-induced desensitization of central (brain cortex) and/or peripheral 
(kidney) alpha2-adrenoreceptors was studied in saturation experiments with the 
classic alpha2-adrenergic antagonist [H]rauwolscine. In the second part of this 
study, the cardiovascular and cardiac antihypertrophic effects of the most 
efficient procedure were investigated. The discontinuous administration of the 
drug was more effective than infusion. In rats treated with rilmenidine b.i.d., 
mean blood pressure was reduced by nearly 15% when no reduction occurred in SHRs 
treated with minipumps. With the first schedule of administration, plasma 
concentration of the drug reached a maximum of approximately 30 ng/ml when it 
was only 12 ng/ml with the continuous infusion of the same dose. Anesthesia with 
pentobarbital potentiated the antihypertensive effect of rilmenidine in rats 
treated discontinuously and unmasked an antihypertensive action in rats 
receiving the drug with minipumps. In saturation binding experiments, no 
significant changes in adrenergic receptors were observed in kidney membrane 
preparations. In contrast, in brain cortical membranes a reduction by about 50% 
of the Bmax of [H]rauwolscine value was observed in rats treated discontinuously 
with rilmenidine. In contrast, a 400% increase of the Bmax was observed in the 
brain of rats treated with minipumps. Over the one-month period of the second 
study, the discontinuous treatment with the 500 microg/kg/d dose of rilmenidine 
was still able to reduce blood pressure, at least at the peak concentration 
time, but did not induce any significant reduction of the ventricular mass. In 
conclusion, rilmenidine has only weak antihypertensive effects in conscious 
SHRs, even at doses higher than those that are active in rabbits and humans. As 
a consequence, it lacks significant cardiac antihypertrophic effects in this 
species. Pharmacokinetic data show that the rapid plasma withdrawal of this drug 
may explain this particular feature in rats.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-200403000-00010
PMID: 15076223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
