1. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2004 Apr;94(4):153-60. doi: 
10.1111/j.1742-7843.2004.pto940401.x.

The effects of the alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonists clonidine and 
rilmenidine, and antagonists yohimbine and efaroxan, on the spinal cholinergic 
receptor system in the rat.

Abelson KS(1), HÃ¶glund AU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Division of Comparative Medicine, Biomedical 
Centre, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden. klas.abelson@fysiologi.uu.se

Cholinergic agonists produce spinal antinociception via mechanisms involving an 
increased release of intraspinal acetylcholine. The cholinergic receptor system 
interacts with several other receptor types, such as alpha2-adrenergic 
receptors. To fully understand these interactions, the effects of various 
receptor ligands on the cholinergic system must be investigated in detail. This 
study was initiated to investigate the effects of the alpha2-adrenergic receptor 
agonists clonidine and rilmenidine and the alpha2-adrenergic receptor 
antagonists yohimbine and efaroxan on spinal cholinergic receptors in the rat. 
Spinal microdialysis was used to measure in vivo changes of acetylcholine after 
administration of the ligands, with or without nicotinic receptor blockade. In 
addition, in vitro binding properties of the ligands on muscarinic and nicotinic 
receptors were investigated. It was found that clonidine and rilmenidine 
increased, while yohimbine decreased spinal acetylcholine release. Efaroxan 
affected acetylcholine release differently depending on concentration. Nicotinic 
receptor blockade attenuated the effect of all ligands. All ligands showed poor 
binding affinity for muscarinic receptors. On the other hand, all ligands 
possessed affinity for nicotinic receptors. Clonidine and yohimbine binding was 
best fit to a one site binding curve and rilmenidine and efaroxan to a two site 
binding curve. The present study demonstrates that the tested alpha2-adrenergic 
receptor ligands affect intraspinal acetylcholine release in the rat evoked by 
nicotinic receptor mechanisms in vivo, and that they possess binding affinity to 
nicotinic receptors in vitro. The binding of alpha2-adrenergic receptor ligands 
to nicotinic receptors might affect the intraspinal release of acetylcholine.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-7843.2004.pto940401.x
PMID: 15078339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
