1. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2004 Oct;97(4):1237-44. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.00401.2004. Epub 2004 May 14.

Differential modulation by estrogen of alpha2-adrenergic and I1-imidazoline 
receptor-mediated hypotension in female rats.

El-Mas MM(1), Abdel-Rahman AA.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, East Carolina Univ., Greenville, 
NC 27858, USA.

We have recently shown that estrogen negatively modulates the hypotensive effect 
of clonidine (mixed alpha2-/I1-receptor agonist) in female rats and implicates 
the cardiovascular autonomic control in this interaction. The present study 
investigated whether this effect of estrogen involves interaction with alpha2- 
and/or I1-receptors. Changes evoked by a single intraperitoneal injection of 
rilmenidine (600 microg/kg) or alpha-methyldopa (100 mg/kg), selective I1- and 
alpha2-receptor agonists, respectively, in blood pressure, hemodynamic 
variability, and locomotor activity were assessed in radiotelemetered 
sham-operated and ovariectomized (Ovx) Sprague-Dawley female rats with or 
without 12-wk estrogen replacement. Three time domain indexes of hemodynamic 
variability were employed: the standard deviation of mean arterial pressure as a 
measure of blood pressure variability and the standard deviation of beat-to-beat 
intervals (SDRR) and the root mean square of successive differences in 
R-wave-to-R-wave intervals as measures of heart rate variability. In 
sham-operated rats, rilmenidine or alpha-methyldopa elicited similar hypotension 
that lasted at least 5 h and was associated with reductions in standard 
deviation of mean arterial pressure. SDRR was reduced only by alpha-methyldopa. 
Ovx significantly enhanced the hypotensive response to alpha-methyldopa, in 
contrast to no effect on rilmenidine hypotension. The enhanced alpha-methyldopa 
hypotension in Ovx rats was paralleled with further reduction in SDRR and a 
reduced locomotor activity. Estrogen replacement (17beta-estradiol subcutaneous 
pellet, 14.2 microg/day, 12 wk) of Ovx rats restored the hemodynamic and 
locomotor effects of alpha-methyldopa to sham-operated levels. These findings 
suggest that estrogen downregulates alpha2- but not I1-receptor-mediated 
hypotension and highlight a role for the cardiac autonomic control in 
alpha-methyldopa-estrogen interaction.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00401.2004
PMID: 15145918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
