1. Br J Pharmacol. 2004 Jun;142(3):609-17. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0705784.

LNP 906, the first high-affinity photoaffinity ligand selective for I1 
imidazoline receptors.

Urosevic D(1), Schann S, Ehrhardt JD, Bousquet P, Greney H.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie et Pharmacologie Cardiovasculaire, INSERM E 
0333, Faculté de Médecine, Université Louis Pasteur, 11 rue Humann, 67000 
Strasbourg, France.

Erratum in
    Br J Pharmacol. 2004 Aug;142(8):1368. Dragan, Urosevic [corrected to 
Urosevic, Dragan]; Stephan, Schann [corrected to Schann, Stephan]; Jean-Daniel, 
Ehrhardt [corrected to Ehrhardt, Jean-Daniel]; Pascal, Bousquet [corrected to 
Bousquet, Pascal]; Hugues, Greney [corrected to Greney, Hugues].

1 The hypotensive effect of imidazoline-like drugs, such as clonidine, was 
attributed both to alpha2-adrenergic receptors and nonadrenergic imidazoline 
receptors, which are divided into I1, I2 and I3 subtypes. 2 We have recently 
synthesized a derivative of (2-(2-chloro-4-iodo-phenylamino)-5-methyl-pyrroline 
(LNP 911), the first high-affinity and selective ligand for I1 receptors (I1R), 
with a photoactivable function (LNP 906). 3 This work aims to test whether this 
derivative retained the binding properties of LNP 911 and bound irreversibly to 
I1R. 4 Binding studies showed that LNP 906 exhibited nanomolar affinity for I1R 
and was selective for I1R over I2 receptors and alpha2-adrenergic receptors 
(alpha2Ars). 5 Upon exposure to u.v. light, LNP 906 irreversibly blocked the 
binding of [125I]-paraiodoclonidine (PIC) to I1R, time- and dose-dependently, on 
PC12 cell membranes and interacted with I1R in a reversible and competitive 
manner in the absence of light. Pharmacological studies showed that this 
blockade was prevented by the concomitant presence of rilmenidine (a well-known 
I1 agonist), but not by rauwolscine (an alpha2 antagonist). 6 Finally, LNP 906 
clearly antagonized the decrease in forskolin-stimulated cAMP level induced by 
rilmenidine, but not by melatonin. 7 These results indicate that LNP 906 is the 
first high-affinity and selective photoaffinity ligand for I1R and that it 
behaves as an I1R antagonist.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0705784
PMCID: PMC1574957
PMID: 15178642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
