1. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2004 May-Jun;31(5-6):348-53. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1681.2004.04008.x.

Effects of rilmenidine on proximal tubular fluid absorption in rats.

Jovanovska V(1), Eitle E, Harris PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, 
Australia.

The antihypertensive agent rilmenidine has threefold higher affinity for I(1) 
imidazoline receptors compared with alpha(2)-adrenoceptors and acts on the 
central nervous system by reducing sympathetic activity and in the kidney by 
inhibiting Na(+)/H(+) exchange activity. In the present study, we examined: (i) 
the effects of luminal and peritubular administration of rilmenidine on fluid 
absorption in superficial proximal tubules; and (ii) the nature of the receptors 
involved in mediating the action of this drug in the presence of specific 
antagonists (efaroxan, idazoxan and 2-methoxy-idazoxan). Studies were performed 
in anaesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats using shrinking split-drop micropuncture. 
Luminal administration of rilmenidine (10(-5) and 10(-13) mol/L) inhibited 
proximal tubular fluid absorption. Peritubular rilmenidine at 10(-12) and 
10(-13) mol/L also inhibited fluid uptake, whereas rilmenidine at 10(-11) mol/L 
had a significant stimulatory action. In the presence of the I(2) > 
I(1)/alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan (10(-5) mol/L), luminal 
rilmenidine (10(-5) mol/L) stimulated fluid absorption. Stimulation of fluid 
uptake was also observed when rilmenidine (10(-5) mol/L) and the I(1) 
imidazoline receptor antagonist efaroxan (10(-5) mol/L) were added together in 
the luminal fluid. Luminal administration of the selective alpha(2)-adrenoceptor 
antagonist 2-methoxy-idazoxan (10(-5) mol/L) resulted in significant attenuation 
of the inhibitory action of luminal rilmenidine (10(-5) mol/L). This indicates 
that both I(1) imidazoline receptors and alpha(2)-adrenoceptors are involved in 
the luminal actions of rilmenidine. The effects of luminal and peritubular 
administration of alpha-methylnoradrenaline (an alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist) 
were compared with those of rilmenidine. Luminal alpha-methylnoradrenaline, at 
higher concentrations (10(-7) and 10(-5) mol/L), inhibited fluid absorption, as 
was seen with peritubular rilmenidine, but, in contrast with rilmenidine, no 
stimulatory action was observed. Peritubular alpha-methylnoradrenaline inhibited 
fluid uptake at higher concentrations (10(-5) and 10(-7) mol/L), whereas 
rilmenidine at these concentrations had no effect. The differences in the 
concentration-dependent responses for rilmenidine and alpha-methylnoradrenaline 
indicate that both imidazoline receptors and alpha(2)-adrenoceptors are involved 
in the actions of these compounds on proximal fluid uptake.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1681.2004.04008.x
PMID: 15191410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
