1. Auton Neurosci. 2004 May 31;112(1-2):31-6. doi: 10.1016/j.autneu.2004.04.001.

Moxonidine and rilmenidine injected into the medial septal area reduces the 
salivation induced by pilocarpine.

Saad WA(1), de Arruda Camargo LA, Simões S, Saad WA, Guarda RS, Guarda IF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Odontology, University of Taubaté UNITAU, Taubaté SP, Brazil. 
Saad@foar.unesp.br

We determined the effects of moxonidine and rilmenidine 20 nmol 
(alpha(2)-adrenergic and imidazoline receptor agonists) injected into the medial 
septal area (MSA) on the pilocarpine-induced salivation, when injected 
intraperitoneally (i.p.), of male Holtzman rats weighing 250-300 g, with 
stainless-steel cannula implanted into the MSA. The rats were anesthetized with 
zoletil 50 mg kg(-1) b.wt. (tiletamine chloridrate 125.0 mg and zolazepan 
chloridrate 125.0 mg) into quadriceps muscle intramuscularly (IM), saliva was 
collected using pre-weighed small cotton balls inserted in the animal's mouth. 
The pre-treatment with moxonidine injected into the MSA reduced the salivation 
induced by pilocarpine (1 mg kg(-1)) injected i.p. (12+/-3 mg min(-1)) vs. 
control (99+/-9 mg min(-1)). The pre-treatment with rilmenidine 40 nmol also 
reduced the salivation induce by pilocarpine injected i.p. (20+/-5 mg min(-1)) 
vs. control (94+/-7 mg min(-1)). Idazoxan 40 nmol (imidazoline receptor 
antagonist) injected into the MSA previous to moxonidine and rilmenidine 
partially blocked the effect of moxonidine and totally blocked the rilmenidine 
effect in pilocarpine-induced salivation injected i.p. (60+/-8 and 95+/-10 mg 
min(-1), respectively). Yohimbine 40 nmol (alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor 
antagonist) injected into the MSA previously to moxonidine and rilmenidine 
partially blocked the moxonidine effect but produced no change on the 
rilmenidine effect on i.p. pilocarpine-induced salivation (70+/-6 and 24+/-6 mg 
min(-1), respectively). Injection of these alpha(2)-adrenergic and imidazoline 
agonists and antagonists agents i.p. produced no change on i.p. 
pilocarpine-induced salivation. These results show that central, but not 
peripheral, injection of alpha(2)-adrenergic and imidazoline agonists' agents 
inhibit pilocarpine-induced salivation. Idazoxan, an imidazoline receptor 
antagonist, totally inhibits the rilmenidine effect and partially inhibits the 
moxonidine effect on pilocarpine-induced salivation. Yohimbine produced no 
change on rilmenidine effect but partially inhibited the moxonidine effect. Both 
of these antagonists when injected into the MSA previous to pilocarpine i.p. 
potentiated the sialogogue effect of pilocarpine. The results suggest that 
alpha(2)-adrenergic/imidazoline receptor of the MSA when stimulated blocked 
pilocarpine-induced salivation in rats when injected intraperitonially. These 
receptors of the medial septal area have an inhibitory mechanism on salivary 
secretion.

DOI: 10.1016/j.autneu.2004.04.001
PMID: 15233928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
