1. J Hypertens. 2004 Aug;22(8):1529-34. doi: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000125453.28861.b8.

Rilmenidine sympatholytic activity preserves mental stress, orthostatic 
sympathetic responses and adrenaline secretion.

Esler M(1), Lux A, Jennings G, Hastings J, Socratous F, Lambert G.

Author information:
(1)Baker Heart Research Institute, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. 
murray.esler@baker.edu.au

Comment in
    J Hypertens. 2004 Aug;22(8):1465-7.

BACKGROUND: Heightened central sympathetic nervous outflow is common in 
essential hypertension, contributing to hypertension development and possibly 
also to complications. Acute sympathetic nervous activation is a proven trigger 
for adverse cardiovascular events. Accordingly, antihypertensive drugs 
inhibiting sympathetic outflow represent a theoretically attractive therapeutic 
option.
OBJECTIVES: To study the sympatholytic and blood pressure-lowering activity of 
the imidazoline binding agent rilmenidine at rest and during reflex sympathetic 
activation.
DESIGN AND METHODS: We used a randomized, double-blind, 6-week cross-over study, 
with a 1-week placebo run-in period, two 2-week active treatment intervals 
(rilmenidine 1 mg twice daily or placebo) and intervening 1-week placebo 
washout. In 15 hypertensive patients, noradrenaline and adrenaline plasma 
kinetics and intra-arterial blood pressure measurements were performed at rest, 
after mental stress (difficult mental arithmetic) and during head-up tilting, at 
the end of the 2-week dosing periods.
RESULTS: The noradrenaline spillover rate, indicative of whole body sympathetic 
activity, was reduced 35% by rilmenidine at rest (P < 0.01) and remained 
significantly lower during mental stress and tilting, although the increases in 
noradrenaline spillover with both stimuli were preserved. The effects on 
intra-arterial blood pressure ran in parallel, a fall in supine resting 
pressure, but no reduction in blood pressure rise during mental stress and a 
lack of fall in blood pressure with tilting. On placebo, adrenaline secretion 
was 0.88 +/- 0.15 nmol/min (mean +/- SE) at rest, increased by 0.42 +/- 0.23 
nmol/min with mental stress (P = 0.019) and was unchanged with tilting. 
Rilmenidine left adrenaline secretion untouched under all conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study confirms a sympatholytic effect of rilmenidine 
during supine rest but preservation of sympathetic responses during mental 
stress and tilting, with the latter underlying a freedom from postural 
hypotension on the drug. The absence of suppression of reflexive sympathetic 
responses contrasts with the described effects of rilmenidine in experimental 
animals, and emphasizes the previously demonstrated unique importance in humans 
of suprabulbar noradrenergic neuronal projections from the brainstem in 
regulating tonic sympathetic activity, with these being inhibited by imidazoline 
binding agents. Sympathetic nervous inhibition with rilmenidine contrasted with 
an absence of suppression of adrenaline secretion, affirming that sympathetic 
nervous and adrenal medullary function can be disconnected.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000125453.28861.b8
PMID: 15257176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
