1. J Psychopharmacol. 2004 Jun;18(2):221-7. doi: 10.1177/0269881104042626.

Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic assessment of tolerance to central nervous 
system effects of a 3 mg sustained release tablet of rilmenidine in hypertensive 
patients.

van der Post JP(1), de Visser SJ, Schoemaker RC, Cohen AF, van Gerven JM.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Human Drug Research, Leiden, The Netherlands. jvdp@chdr.nl

Previous single-dose studies have shown clear blood pressure-lowering effects of 
a potential sustained release (SR) profile of rilmenidine, with 
concentration-dependent effects on the central nervous system. The aim of this 
study was to evaluate potential changes in concentration-effect-relationships 
for these central nervous system effects during a 4-week treatment period with 
an experimental SR formulation of rilmenidine 3 mg once daily in 15 
mild-to-moderate hypertensive patients. The central nervous system effects of 
the treatment were evaluated using saccadic eye movements for sedative effects 
and visual analogue scales for subjective effects on alertness, mood and 
calmness. Measurements for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic evaluations were 
performed on the first day of the treatment period and repeated after 1 week and 
4 weeks of treatment. Drug concentrations increased during the study, whereas 
treatment related reductions in saccadic peak velocity (SPV) remained similar on 
all three study days. The slopes of the concentration-effect-curves for SPV 
remained unchanged throughout the study, while the intercepts tended to increase 
as a result of increased pre-dose values. Similar effects were observed for 
visual analogue scales for alertness: pre-dose values increased significantly 
during the study, while the size of the treatment responses (slopes) remained 
unaltered. The reasons for these adaptations cannot be determined but may 
include drug tolerance and habituations to study procedures. Blood pressure 
control remained stable and adequate throughout the study.

DOI: 10.1177/0269881104042626
PMID: 15260911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
