1. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2004 Oct;37(10):1541-9. doi: 
10.1590/s0100-879x2004001000014. Epub 2004 Sep 22.

Effects of centrally acting antihypertensive drugs on the microcirculation of 
spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Estato V(1), Araújo CV, Bousquet P, Tibiriçá E.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia e Farmacodinâmica, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, 
FIOCRUZ, Av. Brasil 4365, 21045-900 Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brasil.

We investigated the acute effects of centrally acting antihypertensive drugs on 
the microcirculation of pentobarbital-anesthetized spontaneously hypertensive 
rats (SHR). The effects of the sympatho-inhibitory agents clonidine and 
rilmenidine, known to activate both alpha2-adrenoceptors and nonadrenergic 
I1-imidazoline binding sites (I1BS) in the central nervous system, were compared 
to those of dicyclopropylmethyl-(4,5-dimethyl-4,5-dihydro-3H-pyrrol-2-yl)-amine 
hydrochloride (LNP 509), which selectively binds to the I1BS. Terminal 
mesenteric arterioles were observed by intravital microscopy. Activation of the 
central sympathetic system with L-glutamate (125 microg, ic) induced marked 
vasoconstriction of the mesenteric microcirculation (27 +/- 3%; N = 6, P < 
0.05). In contrast, the marked hypotensive and bradycardic effects elicited by 
intracisternal injection of clonidine (1 microg), rilmenidine (7 microg) and LNP 
509 (60 microg) were accompanied by significant increases in arteriolar diameter 
(12 +/- 1, 25 +/- 10 and 21 +/- 4%, respectively; N = 6, P < 0.05). The 
vasodilating effects of rilmenidine and LNP 509 were two-fold higher than those 
of clonidine, although they induced an identical hypotensive effect. Central 
sympathetic inhibition elicited by baclofen (1 microg, ic), a GABA B receptor 
agonist, also resulted in vasodilation of the SHR microvessels. The acute 
administration of clonidine, rilmenidine and LNP 509 also induced a significant 
decrease of cardiac output, whereas a decrease in systemic vascular resistance 
was observed only after rilmenidine and LNP 509. We conclude that the 
normalization of blood pressure in SHR induced by centrally acting 
antihypertensive agents is paralleled by important vasodilation of the 
mesenteric microcirculation. This effect is more pronounced with substances 
acting preferentially (rilmenidine) or exclusively (LNP 509) upon I1BS than with 
those presenting important alpha2-adrenergic activity (clonidine).

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2004001000014
PMID: 15448876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
