1. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2004 Jul-Aug;97(7-8):786-92.

[Rilmenidine sympatholytic activity preserves mental and orthostatic sympathetic 
response and epinephrine secretion].

[Article in French]

Esler M(1), Lux A, Jennings G, Hastings J, Socratous F, Lambert G.

Author information:
(1)Baker Heart Research Institute, Melbourne, Victoria, Australie. 
murray.esler@baker.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Heightened central sympathetic nervous outflow is common in 
essential hypertension, contributing to hypertension development and perhaps 
also to complications. Acute sympathetic nervous activation is a proven trigger 
for adverse cardiovascular events. Accordingly, antihypertensive drugs 
inhibiting sympathetic outflow represent a theoretically attractive therapeutic 
option.
OBJECTIVES: To study the sympatholytic and blood pressure lowering activity of 
the imidazoline binding agent rilmenidine at rest and during reflex sympathetic 
activation.
DESIGN AND METHODS: The HERA study (Hyperium Effect on the sympathetic Reflex 
activation and Adrenaline) is a randomised, double-blind, 6-week cross-over 
trial, with a 1-week placebo run-in period, two 2-week active treatment 
intervals (rilmenidine 1 mg bid, placebo) and intervening one week placebo 
wash-out. In 15 hypertensive patients, noradrenaline and adrenaline plasma 
kinetics and intra-arterial blood pressure measurements were performed at rest, 
after mental stress (difficult mental arithmetic) and during head-up tilting, at 
the end of the 2-week dosing periods.
RESULTS: The noradrenaline spillover rate, indicative of whole body sympathetic 
activity, was reduced 35% by rilmenidine at rest (p<0.01) and remained 
significantly lower during mental stress and tilting, although the increases in 
noradrenaline spillover with both stimuli were preserved. The effects on 
intraarterial blood pressure ran in parallel, a fall in supine resting pressure, 
but no reduction in BP rise during mental stress and a lack of fall in BP with 
tilting. On placebo, adrenaline secretion was 162 +/- 27 ng/min (mean, SE) at 
rest, increased by 77 +/- 42 ng/min with mental stress (p=0.019) and was 
unchanged with tilting. Rilmenidine left adrenaline secretion untouched under 
all conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms a sympatholytic effect of rilmenidine during 
supine rest but demonstrates that sympathetic responses during mental stress and 
tilting are preserved, the latter underlying a perhaps surprising absence of 
postural hypotension on the drug. The absence of suppression of reflexive 
sympathetic responses contrasts with the effects of rilmenidine in experimental 
animals, and emphasises the previously demonstrated unique importance in humans 
of suprabulbar noradrenergic neuronal projections from the brainstem, which are 
inhibited by imidazoline binding agents, in regulating tonic sympathetic 
activity in essential hypertension. Sympathetic nervous inhibition with 
rilmenidine contrasted with an absence of suppression of the secretion of 
adrenaline affirming that here, as elsewhere, sympathetic nervous and adrenal 
medullary function can be disconnected.

PMID: 15506067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
