1. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2005 Apr;98(4):1297-308. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.00977.2004. Epub 2004 Dec 3.

Noradrenergic modulation of XII motoneuron inspiratory activity does not involve 
alpha2-receptor inhibition of the Ih current or presynaptic glutamate release.

Adachi T(1), Robinson DM, Miles GB, Funk GD.

Author information:
(1)7-50 Medical Sciences Bldg., Dept. of Physiology, Univ. of Alberta, Edmonton, 
Alberta, Canada, T6G 2H7.

Norepinephrine has powerful and diverse modulatory effects on hypoglossal (XII) 
motoneuron activity, which is important in maintaining airway patency. The 
objective was to test two hypotheses that alpha2-adrenoceptor-mediated, 
presynaptic inhibition of glutamatergic inspiratory drive (Selvaratnam SR, 
Parkis MA, and Funk GD. Brain Res 805: 104-115, 1998) and postsynaptic 
inhibition of the hyperpolarization-activated inward current (Ih) (Parkis MA and 
Berger AJ. Brain Res 769: 108-118, 1997) modulate XII inspiratory activity. 
Nerve and whole cell recordings were applied to rhythmic medullary slice 
preparations from neonatal rats (postnatal days 0-4) to monitor XII inspiratory 
burst amplitude and motoneuron properties. Application of an alpha2-receptor 
agonist (clonidine, 1 mM) to the XII nucleus reduced inspiratory burst amplitude 
to 71 +/- 3% of control but had no effect on inspiratory synaptic currents. It 
also reduced the Ih current by approximately 40%, but an Ih current blocker 
(ZD7288), at concentrations that blocked approximately 80% of Ih, had no effect 
on inspiratory burst amplitude. The clonidine inhibition was unaffected by the 
GABAA antagonist (+)bicuculline but attenuated by the alpha2-antagonist 
rauwolscine and the imidazoline 1 (I1) antagonist efaroxan. The I1 agonist 
rilmenidine, but not the alpha2-agonist UK14304, inhibited XII output. Clonidine 
also reduced action potential amplitude or impaired repetitive firing. Although 
a contribution from alpha2, and in particular I1, receptors remains possible, 
results demonstrate that 1) noradrenergic modulation of XII inspiratory activity 
is unlikely to involve alpha2-receptor-mediated presynaptic inhibition of 
glutamate release or modulation of Ih; 2) inhibition of repetitive firing is a 
major factor underlying the inhibition of XII output by clonidine; and 3) Ih is 
present in neonatal XII motoneurons but does not contribute to shaping their 
inspiratory activity.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00977.2004
PMID: 15579572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
