1. Auton Neurosci. 2005 Jan 15;117(1):17-24. doi: 10.1016/j.autneu.2004.10.001.

Rat clonidine mydriasis model: imidazoline receptors are not involved.

Yu Y(1), Koss MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, 
Oklahoma City, OK 73190, USA. yongxin-yu@ouhsc.edu

The clonidine mydriasis model in rats has been widely applied in preclinical 
research to characterize alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonistic properties of drugs. 
The present study was undertaken to pharmacologically determine if imidazoline 
I(1) receptors are also involved in this model system. Sigmoid dose-response 
curves for pupillary dilation were produced in pentobarbital anesthetized rats 
by intravenous administration of increasing doses of agonists (guanabenz for 
alpha(2)-adrenoceptors, clonidine for both alpha(2)-adrenoceptors and 
imidazoline I(1) receptors, and rilmenidine for imidazoline I(1) receptors). Two 
antagonists (RS 79948 for alpha(2)-adrenoceptors and efaroxan for imidazoline 
I(1) receptors) were used to antagonize the mydriasis elicited by those three 
agonists, with antagonistic potencies calculated. In additional experiments, we 
examined the effect of the selective imidazoline I(1) receptor antagonist, AGN 
192403, on clonidine-induced mydriasis. The results showed that pupillary 
response curves elicited by guanabenz, clonidine and rilmenidine were 
competitively antagonized by both RS 79948 (0.03-1 mg/kg) and efaroxan (0.03-1 
mg/kg) in a dose-related fashion. The potencies of either antagonist against the 
three agonists were not significantly different. AGN 192403 (5 mg/kg) did not 
significantly shift the clonidine mydriasis curve. These results suggest that 
imidazoline I(1) receptors are not functionally involved in the rat clonidine 
mydriasis model and support this in vivo system as a useful model for studies of 
alpha(2)-adrenoceptors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.autneu.2004.10.001
PMID: 15620566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
