1. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2005 Sep;314(3):945-52. doi: 10.1124/jpet.105.087510.
Epub  2005 May 18.

Mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation in the rostral ventrolateral 
medulla plays a key role in imidazoline (i1)-receptor-mediated hypotension.

Zhang J(1), Abdel-Rahman AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Brody School of Medicine, East 
Carolina University, Greenville, NC 27834, USA.

Our previous study showed that rilmenidine, a selective I(1)-imidazoline 
receptor agonist, enhanced the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein 
kinase (MAPK)(p42/44), via the phosphatidylcholine-specific phospholipase C 
pathway in the pheochromocytoma cell line (PC12). In the present study, we 
tested the hypothesis that enhancement of MAPK phosphorylation in the rostral 
ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) contributes to the hypotensive response elicited by 
I(1)-receptor activation in vivo. Systemic rilmenidine (600 microg/kg i.v.) 
elicited hypotension and bradycardia along with significant elevation in 
MAPK(p42/44), detected by immunohistochemistry, in RVLM neurons. To obtain 
conclusive evidence that the latter response was I(1)-receptor-mediated, similar 
hypotensive responses were elicited by intracisternal (i.c.) rilmenidine (25 
microg/rat) or the highly selective alpha(2)-agonist alpha-methylnorepinephrine 
(4 microg/rat). An increase in RVLM MAPK(p42/44) occurred only after 
rilmenidine. Furthermore, pretreatment with efaroxan (0.15 microg/rat i.c.), a 
selective I(1)-imidazoline receptor antagonist, or with PD98059 
(2'-amino-3'-methoxyflavone) (5 microg/rat i.c.), a selective extracellular 
signal-regulated kinase 1/2 inhibitor, significantly attenuated the hypotensive 
response and the elevation in RVLM MAPK(p42/44) elicited by i.c. rilmenidine. 
The findings suggest that MAPK phosphorylation in the RVLM contributes to the 
hypotensive response induced by I(1)-receptor activation and presents in vivo 
evidence that distinguishes the neuronal responses triggered by the 
I(1)-receptor from those triggered by the alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.105.087510
PMID: 15901801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
