1. Eur J Pharmacol. 2005 May 9;514(2-3):191-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2005.03.021.

Site-dependent inhibition of neuronal c-jun in the brainstem elicited by 
imidazoline I1 receptor activation: role in rilmenidine-evoked hypotension.

Wang X(1), Li G, Abdel-Rahman AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Brody School of Medicine at East 
Carolina University, Greenville, NC 27834, USA.

Clonidine (a mixed alpha2-adrenoceptor and imidazoline I1 receptor 
agonist)-evoked hypotension was associated with dissimilar reductions in c-jun 
gene expression in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) and the nucleus 
tractus solitarius (NTS) in normotensive rats. In the present study, we 
investigated the relative contribution of the alpha2-adrenoceptor vs. the 
imidazoline I1 receptor to the reduction in c-jun gene expression in these two 
brainstem areas. In conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs), 
equihypotensive doses of three centrally acting hypotensive drugs with different 
selectivity for the two receptors were administered intracisternally (4 microl) 
to limit their actions to the brain. As a control, a similar hypotensive 
response was elicited by i.v. hydralazine. Clonidine (0.5 microg), or 
alpha-methylnorepinephrine (alpha-MNE, 4 microg), a highly selective 
alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, similarly reduced c-jun mRNA expression in the NTS 
and rostral ventrolateral medulla. In contrast, a similar hypotensive response 
(-37+/-3.5 mm Hg) caused by the selective imidazoline I1 receptor agonist 
rilmenidine (25 microg) was associated with reduction in c-jun mRNA expression 
in the rostral ventrolateral medulla, but not in the NTS. Further, intra-rostral 
ventrolateral medulla rilmenidine (40 nmol) reduced c-Jun protein expression in 
rostral ventrolateral medulla and blood pressure and both responses were 
antagonized by selective imidazoline I1 receptor (efaroxan, 4 nmol), but not 
alpha2-adrenoceptor (SK&F 86466, 10 nmol) blockade. These results suggest: (1) 
the c-jun containing neurons in the brainstem are involved in the centrally 
mediated hypotension elicited by centrally acting antihypertensive agents, and 
(2) the alpha2-adrenoceptor modulates c-jun gene expression in the NTS and 
rostral ventrolateral medulla implicated in centrally mediated hypotension, and 
(3) the imidazoline I1 receptor mediated inhibition of c-jun gene expression in 
the rostral ventrolateral medulla, but not in the NTS, contributes to the 
centrally mediated hypotension by the second generation drugs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2005.03.021
PMID: 15910806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
