1. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 2005 Jul;46(1):52-62. doi: 
10.1097/01.fjc.0000162773.54915.52.

Neuronal norepinephrine responses of the rostral ventrolateral medulla and 
nucleus tractus solitarius neurons distinguish the I1- from the 
alpha2-receptor-mediated hypotension in conscious SHRs.

Li G(1), Wang X, Abdel-Rahman AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Brody School of Medicine, Greenville, North 
Carolina 27858-4353, USA.

We tested the hypothesis that the I1 receptor mediates the reduction in rostral 
ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) neuronal norepinephrine (NE; index of sympathetic 
activity) that leads to hypotension independent of other brainstem areas or the 
alpha2-adrenergic receptor. To this end, we developed a model that permitted 
measurement of real-time changes in neuronal NE in the RVLM or nucleus tractus 
solitarius (NTS) along with blood pressure and heart rate in the conscious SHR 
in response to localized microinjections of selective I1 (rilmenidine) or 
alpha2-adrenergic (alpha-methylnorepinephrine; alpha-MNE) agonist versus the 
mixed I1/alpha2 agonist clonidine. To further support the hypothesis, we 
investigated the effects of localized selective alpha2- (SK&F86466) or I1 
(efaroxan) blockade on the reductions in neuronal NE and blood pressure elicited 
by intra-RVLM rilmenidine. In the latter experiment, changes in RVLM neuronal 
c-Fos (another marker of sympathetic neural activity) were also investigated. 
Intra-RVLM rilmenidine (40 nmol) or clonidine (1 nmol) similarly reduced RVLM NE 
and blood pressure; these responses were approximately 2-fold greater than those 
elicited by the pure alpha2-adrenergic agonist alpha-MNE (10 nmol). By contrast, 
intra-NTS rilmenidine or clonidine had no effect on NTS NE or blood pressure 
versus significant reductions in both parameters by alpha-MNE. Intra-RVLM 
rilmenidine decreased c-Fos expression, and these responses were abolished by 
efaroxan but not by SK&F 86466. These findings suggest: (1) in the RVLM, 
I1-receptor signaling suppresses cardiovascular neuron activity, which leads to 
lowering of blood pressure; (2) although the alpha2-adrenergic receptor in the 
RVLM serves a similar role, it does not exert a tonic neuronal inhibitory effect 
and is not essential, as a downstream signaling entity, for the I1-evoked 
neurobiological effects in the brainstem. The potential confounding effects of 
anesthetics on the I1 and/or alpha2 receptor-mediated neuronal and 
cardiovascular responses were circumvented in the present study.

DOI: 10.1097/01.fjc.0000162773.54915.52
PMID: 15965355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
