1. Am J Hypertens. 1992 Apr;5(4 Pt 2):58S-63S. doi: 10.1093/ajh/5.4.58s.

Adrenergic and nonadrenergic effects of imidazoline and related antihypertensive 
drugs in the brain and periphery.

Hamilton CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Western Infirmary, Glasgow, 
Scotland.

In radioligand binding studies the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist ligand 
[3H]yohimbine binds exclusively to adrenergic sites. However, in addition to 
binding to alpha 2-adrenoceptor sites, two other ligands, [3H]clonidine and 
[3H]idazoxan, also bind at nonadrenergic imidazoline sites. Many of the 
compounds with a high affinity for these imidazoline sites are centrally acting 
antihypertensive drugs and there is some evidence that these sites are involved 
in blood pressure regulation. With chronic treatment of rabbits with guanabenz, 
clonidine, and rilmenidine, down regulation of alpha 2 but not imidazoline sites 
occurred in forebrain and hindbrain with guanabenz treatment, and in hindbrain 
with clonidine treatment. However, no change in either imidazoline or alpha 
2-adrenoceptor binding site number occurred in animals given chronic rilmenidine 
treatment. This rank order of effect, guanabenz greater than clonidine greater 
than rilmenidine, is consistent with the alpha 2-adrenoceptor activation by the 
three drugs in the periphery. In contrast, chronic treatment with guanabenz, 
clonidine, and rilmenidine had similar effects on blood pressure, heart rate, 
and responses to intracisternal clonidine. We suggest that stimulation of alpha 
2-adrenoceptors cannot account for all the changes in cardiovascular responses 
observed on chronic treatment and that activation of nonadrenergic 
imidazoline-preferring sites may contribute to the antihypertensive properties 
of imidazoline and related compounds.

DOI: 10.1093/ajh/5.4.58s
PMID: 1596396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
