1. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Oct;22(7):1812-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.04356.x.

Role of imidazoline receptors in the anti-aversive properties of clonidine 
during opiate withdrawal in rats.

Georges F(1), Caillé S, Vouillac C, Le Moine C, Stinus L.

Author information:
(1)Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Unité Mixte de Recherche 5541 
'Interactions Neuronales et Comportements', BP28, Université Victor Segalen, 
Bordeaux 2, 146 rue Léo Saignat, 33076 Bordeaux cedex, France. 
francois.georges@umr5541.u-bordeaux2.fr

Clonidine is used as a treatment for heroin addiction. Previous studies have 
reported that clonidine attenuated conditioned place aversion (CPA) to 
naloxone-precipitated opiate withdrawal by acting on alpha2 adrenoceptors 
(alpha2R). However, clonidine acts as a partial agonist both at alpha2R and at 
imidazoline-1 receptors (I1Rs). The current study was designed to determine the 
role of I1R in the induction of naloxone-induced CPA in morphine-dependent rats. 
Morphine dependence was induced by subcutaneous implantation of morphine 
pellets. Morphine-dependent rats were tested in a three-chamber place-aversion 
apparatus. A range of agonists were chosen on the basis of their differential 
selectivity for alpha2R and I1R. As expected, pretreatment with clonidine 
prevented naloxone-induced CPA. By contrast, pretreatment with a selective 
alpha2R agonist (UK14304) failed to prevent the CPA. We then tested whether the 
high affinity of clonidine for I1R was responsible for the difference between 
these two alpha2R agonists. Rilmenidine (a mixed alpha2R/I1R agonist) attenuated 
aversion to opiate withdrawal in a dose-dependent manner. The action of 
clonidine on I1R was studied by co-administering clonidine with RX821002, a 
specific alpha2R antagonist. Co-treatment with RX821002 and clonidine blocked 
naloxone-induced CPA. These results indicate that the pharmacologically 
protective effects of clonidine on naloxone-induced CPA are related to actions 
on I1RS as well as alpha2Rs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.04356.x
PMID: 16197523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
