1. Bioorg Med Chem. 2006 Mar 15;14(6):1715-28. doi: 10.1016/j.bmc.2005.10.020.
Epub  2005 Nov 2.

Theoretical study of structure, pKa, lipophilicity, solubility, absorption, and 
polar surface area of some centrally acting antihypertensives.

Remko M(1), Swart M, Bickelhaupt FM.

Author information:
(1)Comenius University, Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Odbojarov 10, 
SK-832 32 Bratislava, Slovakia. remko@fpharm.uniba.sk

The methods of theoretical chemistry have been used to elucidate the molecular 
properties of the substituted imidazoline and oxazoline structures, a class of 
potent agonists and antagonists of imidazoline receptors. The geometries of 
various tautomers and isomers of 2-[2,6-dichlorophenylimino]imidazolidine 
(clonidine), 1-(N-dicyclopropylmethyl)amino-2-oxazoline (rilmenidine), 
4-chloro-N-(4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazol-2yl)-6-methoxy-2-methyl-5-pyrimidinamine 
(moxonidine), N-(dicyclopropylmethyl)-4,5-dihydro-1H-pyrrol-2-amine 
(aminopyrroline), N-dicyclopropylmethyl-4,5-dihydrothiazol-2-amine 
(aminothiazoline), 4,5-dihydro-2-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1H-imidazole (compound_6), 
4,5-dihydro-2-(3-methylthiophen-2-yl)-1H-imidazole (compound_7), 
N-(2-chloro-4-iodophenyl)-4,5-dihydro-5-methyl-3H-pyrrol-2-amine (LNP_911), 
N-amidino-3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-carboxamide (amiloride), 
2-(1,4-benzodioxan-2-yl)-2-imidazoline (idazoxan), 
(+/-)-2-(2-ethyl-2,3-dihydro-2-benzofuranyl)-2-imidazoline (efaroxan), 
(4-aminobutyl)guaninine (agmatine), and 1-methyl-9H-pyrido[3,4-b]indole 
(harmane) have been studied using Becke3LYP/6-31+G(d,p) and BP86/TZ2P DFT 
methods. The optimized geometries indicate that these molecules show a 
distinctly nonplanar configuration of the imidazoline and oxazoline moieties. In 
the gas-phase, rilmenidine and aminothiazoline exist in two forms (amino and 
imino), the amino tautomers being more stable by about 6 kJ/mol. The 
calculations showed, in agreement with experiments, that clonidine, moxonidine, 
and LNP_911 exist in a more stable imino tautomer. The tautomer containing the 
amino group is by about 30 kJ/mol less stable. Computations that include the 
effect of solvation indicated that also in water the relative stability order of 
individual tautomers (amino and imino forms) is preserved. The computed pKa 
values varied between 6.7 and 9.0, and correlate well with the available 
experimental pKa's found in the literature. Among the clinically useful 
antihypertensives moxonidine exhibits the lowest basicity in water. At pH = 7.4 
only about 50% of this drug exists in ionized form. The available experimental 
partition coefficients of compounds investigated are best reproduced by the 
CLOGP method. The computed partition coefficients varied between -1.80 
(agmatine) and 5.35 (LNP_911) (CLOGP). Clonidine, moxonidine, and rilmenidine 
are moderately lipophilic compounds with lipophilicities between these two 
extreme values. The computed solubilities (about 0.1-4 g/L) show that the 
imidazoline and oxazoline derivatives studied have very low water solubility. 
The analysis of molecular descriptors defined by Lipinski has shown that most of 
the compounds studied obey 'rule of five'. Amiloride and agmatine 'outlets' 
exhibit also the lowest absorption. Therefore, in the early stages of the design 
of ligands acting on imidazoline binding sites, it is becoming more important to 
determine the pKa, lipophilicity, water solubility, polar surface area, 
absorption, and other physicochemical properties associated with a drug, before 
synthetic work is undertaken, with the aim of avoiding the synthesis of 
compounds that are predicted to have poor biopharmaceutical characteristics.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmc.2005.10.020
PMID: 16263295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
