1. Clin Exp Hypertens. 2005 Nov;27(8):619-27. doi: 10.1080/10641960500298632.

Central actions of agmatine in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Briaud S(1), Zhang BL, Sannajust F.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Recherche Neurologique et Cardiovasculaire, Facult√© de Pharmacie 
de Tours, Tours, France.

Agmatine (decarboxylated arginine) is an endogenous ligand at alpha-2 adrenergic 
and imidazoline nonadrenergic receptors. In conscious spontaneously hypertensive 
rats (SHRs), we have studied its central effects on cardiovascular function and 
its interaction with the second generation centrally acting antihypertensive 
agent, rilmenidine, and the reference imidazoline, clonidine, which are mixed 
alpha-2 adrenoceptor/imidazoline receptor agonists. Agmatine, when administered 
in low doses (30-100 microg/kg) into the fourth ventricle had no effect on blood 
pressure and caused an increase in heart rate. A higher dose of 1,000 microg/kg 
produced an adverse reaction in conscious SHRs and a marked and long-lasting 
increase in blood pressure. The effects of fourth ventricular rilmenidine (300 
microg/kg) and clonidine (10 microg/kg) were equihypotensive and 
equibradycardic. The antihypertensive and bradycardic effects of rilmenidine 
were not reversed by cumulative intracisternal doses (30-100-300 microg/kg) of 
agmatine. The bradycardia obtained 20 min after intracisternal administration of 
clonidine in the fourth ventricle was reversed by 30 microg/kg agmatine. Only 
the highest dose of agmatine (1,000 microg/kg) did reverse the antihypertensive 
effects of rilmenidine and clonidine. Agmatine neither did mimic nor block the 
antihypertensive response to rilmenidine and clonidine at well-tolerated doses. 
Yet agmatine produced a small tachycardia at relatively low doses and was able 
to reverse the bradycardia induced by clonidine. Therefore, its affinity for 
alpha-2 adrenoceptors in vitro might partially explain its cardiovascular 
effects in vivo.

DOI: 10.1080/10641960500298632
PMID: 16303638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
