1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2006 Jan;372(4):300-12. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-005-0024-3. Epub 2006 Jan 17.

Lipid-lowering actions of imidazoline antihypertensive agents in metabolic 
syndrome X.

Velliquette RA(1), Kossover R, Previs SF, Ernsberger P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, 
10900 Euclid Ave, Cleveland, OH 44106-4906, USA.

Agonists active at I1-imidazoline receptors (I1R) not only lower blood pressure 
but also ameliorate glucose intolerance, insulin resistance, and hyperlipidemia 
with long-term treatment. We sought to determine the possible mechanism for the 
lipid-lowering actions of imidazolines in a model of metabolic Syndrome X, the 
spontaneously-hypertensive obese (SHROB) rat. The acute actions of moxonidine 
and rilmenidine, selective I1R agonists, were compared to a specific 
alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist, guanabenz, with and without selective 
receptor blockers. Moxonidine and rilmenidine rapidly reduced plasma 
triglyceride (20+/-4% and 21+/-5%, respectively) and cholesterol (29+/-9% and 
27+/-9%). In contrast, the specific alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist guanabenz 
failed to reduce plasma lipids. Blocking experiments showed that moxonidine's 
actions were mediated by I1R and not alpha2-adrenergic receptors. To evaluate a 
hepatic site of action, radioligand binding studies with liver plasma membranes 
confirmed the presence of I1R. Intraportal moxonidine reduced plasma 
triglycerides by 23+/-3% within 10 min. Moxonidine inhibited hepatic 
triglyceride secretion by 75% compared to vehicle treatment. Tracer studies with 
2H2O suggested that moxonidine inhibits de novo fatty acid synthesis. Thus, 
activation of I1R lowers plasma lipids, with the main site of action probably 
within the liver to reduce synthesis and secretion of triglycerides. More 
selective I1R agonists might provide monotherapy for hyperlipidemic 
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-005-0024-3
PMID: 16416266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
