1. Auton Neurosci. 2006 Jul 30;128(1-2):19-24. doi: 10.1016/j.autneu.2005.12.003.
 Epub 2006 Feb 7.

Opposite to alpha2-adrenergic agonists, an imidazoline I1 selective compound 
does not influence reflex bradycardia in rabbits.

Sy GY(1), Bousquet P, Feldman J.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie et Pharmacologie Cardiovasculaire, INSERM U 715, 
Faculté de Médecine, Université Louis Pasteur, 11 rue Humann, 67000 Strasbourg, 
France.

This work aimed to study the respective effects of central alpha2-adrenergic 
receptors (alpha2-ARS) and I1 imidazoline receptors (I1Rs) in the facilitatory 
effects of imidazoline-like drugs on the reflex bradycardia (RB). Experiments 
were performed in anaesthetized rabbits. The reflex bradycardic response was 
induced by phenylephrine injected i.v. LNP 509, rilmenidine and dexmedetomidine 
were administered intracisternally (i.c.). LNP509 (1 mg/kg, i.c.), a ligand 
highly selective for I1Rs, induced hypotension (54+/-3 vs. 93+/-2 mm Hg) and 
bradycardia (260+/-13 vs. 322+/-13 beats/min) (p<0.05, n=5) but did not affect 
RB. Rilmenidine (1 microg/kg, i.c.), a hybrid ligand which binds to both I1 and 
alpha2-ARS, also decreased arterial pressure (61+/-2 vs. 101+/-2 mm Hg) and 
heart rate (260+/-4 vs. 308+/-8) (p<0.01, n=5); it potentiated the RB (maximum 
R-R interval: 284+/-17 vs. 196+/-6 ms) (p<0.05, n=5). Dexmedetomidine (1 
microg/kg, i.c.), a ligand selective for alpha2-ARs, reduced blood pressure 
(53+/-3 vs. 104+/-2 mm Hg) and heart rate (246+/-4 vs. 312+/-8 beats/min) 
(p<0.05, n=5) and potentiated the RB (maximum R-R interval: 518+/-38 vs. 194+/-4 
ms) (p<0.05, n=5). The potentiation of RB was much greater than that observed 
with rilmenidine and was significantly prevented by L-NNA injected centrally. 
This study shows that: (i) an exclusive action on I1Rs which decreases arterial 
pressure, does not potentiate the RB ii) activation of alpha2-ARs potentiates 
the RB (iii) the R-R prolongation caused by alpha2-ARs stimulation is prevented 
by central NOS inhibition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.autneu.2005.12.003
PMID: 16464646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
