1. Eur J Pharmacol. 1991 Jan 25;206(1):23-31. doi: 10.1016/0922-4106(91)90142-5.

Imidazoline-guanidinium and alpha 2-adrenergic binding sites in basolateral 
membranes from human kidney.

Lachaud-Pettiti V(1), Podevin RA, Chrétien Y, Parini A.

Author information:
(1)URA 318 CNRS, Département de Pharmacologie, CHU Necker, Paris, France.

In the present study, we used [3H]idazoxan and [3H]rauwolscine to characterize 
the imidazoline-guanidinium receptive site (IGRS) and alpha 2-adrenoceptors in 
the human renal proximal tubule, respectively. In purified basolateral 
membranes, 11-fold enriched in Na(+)-K+ ATPase. [3H]idazoxan and [3H]rauwolscine 
binding was twofold higher than in homogenates ([3H]idazoxan: 87 +/- 19 vs. 45 
+/- 23.3 fmol/mg protein, P less than 0.05; [3H]rauwolscine: 56.4 +/- 21.4 vs. 
25.2 +/- 7.3 fmol/mg protein, P less than 0.01). In competition studies 
performed at saturating concentration of [3H]idazoxan (15 NM), specific binding 
was competed for by epinephrine and rauwolscine only by 10-15% but was 
completely inhibited by imidazoline and guanidinium compounds. Thus, in human 
renal proximal tubule. [3H]idazoxan mainly binds to an IGRS. The highest density 
of alpha 2-adrenoceptors in basolateral membranes and of IGRS in partially 
purified membrane preparations, suggests that these two binding sites have a 
different subcellular localization. When compared to the rabbit renal IGRS, the 
human [3H]idazoxan binding site displays different affinities for guanabenz, 
rilmenidine, clonidine, amiloride and its derivatives that persist after 
membrane solubilization. In contrast, the human and rabbit renal IGRS share 
similar regulatory properties such as the sensitivity to K+ and the 
insensitivity to Na+, divalent cations and 5'-guanylylimidodiphosphate 
(Gpp(NH)p). In conclusion, we demonstrated that, in the human renal proximal 
tubule, alpha 2-adrenoceptors are mainly located in basolateral membranes while 
IGRS appear to be associated with another cell compartment. As indicated by 
their common interaction with imidazoline and guanidinium derivatives and by 
similar regulatory properties, human and rabbit IGRS belong to the same family 
of membrane proteins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0922-4106(91)90142-5
PMID: 1648494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
