1. Eur J Pharmacol. 1991 Mar 26;195(2):181-91. doi: 10.1016/0014-2999(91)90534-w.

Rilmenidine lowers arterial pressure via imidazole receptors in brainstem C1 
area.

Gomez RE(1), Ernsberger P, Feinland G, Reis DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Neuroscience, Cornell University Medical College, 
New York, NY 10021.

We sought to determine the site of action and receptor type responsible for the 
antihypertensive actions of rilmenidine, an oxazoline analogue of clonidine. In 
anesthetized paralyzed rats decerebration did not alter the dose dependent 
reductions in arterial pressure and heart rate elicited by i.v. drug. 
Rilmenidine microinjected bilaterally into the C1 area of the rostral 
ventrolateral medulla (RVL), but not nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) nor caudal 
ventrolateral medulla (CVL), elicited dose-dependent falls in arterial pressure 
and heart rate at doses an order of magnitude less than required systemically. 
Prior microinjection into the C1 area of the selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor 
antagonist SKF-86466, even at high doses, failed to modify the hypotension to 
i.v. rilmenidine. However, microinjection of 3- to 10-fold lower doses of 
idazoxan, a ligand for imidazole as well as alpha 2-adrenoceptors, blocked the 
effects. Rilmenidine also competed with the clonidine analogue 
[3H]p-aminoclonidine ([3H]PAC) at specific binding sites in membranes of bovine 
ventrolateral medulla and frontal cortex. In RVL rilmenidine competed with 
binding to imidazole and alpha 2-adrenergic binding sites with a 30-fold 
selectivity for the imidazole binding sites. In frontal cortex binding was of 
lower affinity and restricted to alpha 2-adrenergic sites. We conclude that 
rilmenidine, like clonidine, acts to lower arterial pressure by an action on 
imidazole receptors in the C1 area of RVL. The higher selectivity of rilmenidine 
for imidazole to alpha 2-adrenoceptors as compared to clonidine may explain the 
lower sedative effects of rilmenidine.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(91)90534-w
PMID: 1651861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
