1. J Hum Hypertens. 2006 Jun;20(6):398-406. doi: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1002004.

How can we block sympathetic overactivity? Effects of rilmenidine and atenolol 
in overweight hypertensive patients.

Konrady AO(1), Kasherininov YR, Shavarov AA, Shavarova EK, Vachrameeva NV, 
Krutikov AN, Smirnova EV, Shlyakhto EV.

Author information:
(1)VA Almazov Research Institute of Cardiology, St Petersburg, Russia. 
podiatr@inbox.ru

The aim of the present study was to evaluate effects of long-term treatment with 
rilmenidine compared with atenolol on lipid and glucose metabolism and 
cardiovascular remodelling in hypertension. In total, 37 patients with 
hypertension were randomised to rilmenidine 1-2 mg/day or atenolol 50-100 mg/day 
for 26 weeks. Standard oral glucose tolerance test with a parallel measurement 
of insulin and glucose levels was performed. The 'areas under the curve' (AUC) 
for insulin and glucose were calculated. Plasma lipids, left ventricular mass 
index (LVMI), and intima-media thickness (IMT) were measured. Brachial artery 
diameter during reactive hyperaemia was used to test endothelium-dependent 
vasodilatation (EDVD). Blood pressure reduction was equally achieved in both 
treatment arms. The fasting glucose level increased in the atenolol group from 
4.8+/-0.6 to 5.2+/-0.7 mmol/l (P<0.01). The AUC of glucose in rilmenidine group 
decreased from 860+/-93 to 737+/-66 mmol/min/l (P<0.05), and in the atenolol 
group it increased from 937+/-86 to 989+/-88 mmol/min/l (P<0.05). Rilmenidine 
showed a positive effect on lipid levels, whereas in the atenolol group a 
significant decrease of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol was observed. Left 
ventricular mass index decreased with rilmenidine by 9.6% and by 6.9% with 
atenolol (P<0.05). Intima-media thickness significantly decreased in the 
rilmenidine group. Endothelium-dependent vasodilatation slightly increased on in 
the rilmenidine group, while on in the atenolol group it remained unchanged. Our 
data suggest that in hypertensive patients central inhibition of sympathetic 
drive can produce favourable effects on glucose and lipid metabolism compared 
with standard beta-blockade with a similar antihypertensive efficacy. 
Rilmenidine also provides beneficial effects on cardiovascular remodelling and 
altered endothelial function in hypertension.

Journal of Human Hypertension (2006) 20, 398-406. doi:10.1038/sj.jhh.1002004

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1002004
PMID: 16543910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
