1. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2006 Jul;318(1):255-61. doi: 10.1124/jpet.105.100495.
Epub  2006 Apr 4.

Central adenosine signaling plays a key role in centrally mediated hypotension 
in conscious aortic barodenervated rats.

Nassar N(1), Abdel-Rahman AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Brody School of Medicine, East 
Carolina University, Greenville, NC 27834, USA.

We tested the hypothesis that clonidine-evoked hypotension is dependent on 
central adenosinergic pathways. Five groups of male, conscious, aortic 
baroreceptor-denervated (ABD) rats received clonidine (10 microg/kg i.v.) 30 min 
after i.v. 1) saline, 2) theophylline (10 mg/kg), or 3) 
8-(p-sulfophenyl)theophylline (8-SPT) (2.5 mg/kg) or 1 h after i.p. 4) 
dipyridamole (5 mg/kg) or 5) an equal volume of sesame oil. Blockade of central 
(theophylline) but not peripheral (8-SPT) adenosine receptors abolished 
clonidine hypotension. In contrast, dipyridamole substantially enhanced the 
bradycardic response to clonidine. In additional groups, intracisternal (i.c.) 
dipyridamole (150 microg) and 8-SPT (10 microg) enhanced and abolished, 
respectively, clonidine (0.6 microg i.c.)-evoked hypotension. Because clonidine 
is a mixed I1/alpha2 agonist, we also investigated whether adenosine signaling 
is linked to the I1 or the alpha2A receptor by administering the selective I1 
(rilmenidine, 25 microg) or alpha2A [alpha-methylnorepinephrine (alpha-MNE), 4 
microg] agonist 30 min after central adenosine receptor blockade (8-SPT; 10 
microg i.c.) or artificial cerebrospinal fluid. The hypotensive response 
elicited by rilmenidine or alpha-MNE was abolished in 8-SPT-pretreated rats. To 
delineate the role of the adenosine A2A receptor in clonidine-evoked 
hypotension, i.c. clonidine (0.6 microg) was administered 30 min after central 
adenosine receptor A2A blockade 
[5-amino-7-(2-phenylethyl)-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo[4,3-epsilon]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c]-pyrimidine 
(SCH58261); 150 microg i.c.]. The latter virtually abolished the hypotensive and 
bradycardic responses elicited by clonidine. In conclusion, central adenosine 
A2A signaling plays a key role in clonidine-evoked hypotension in conscious 
aortic barodenervated rats.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.105.100495
PMID: 16595736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
