1. J Cell Biochem. 2006 Aug 15;98(6):1615-28. doi: 10.1002/jcb.20806.

Involvement of phosphatidylcholine-selective phospholipase C in activation of 
mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways in imidazoline receptor 
antisera-selected protein.

Li F(1), Wu N, Su RB, Zheng JQ, Xu B, Lu XQ, Cong B, Li J.

Author information:
(1)Beijing Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Beijing 100850, China.

Imidazoline receptor antisera-selected protein (IRAS) is considered as a 
candidate for the I1-imidazoline receptor (I1R), but the signaling pathway 
mediated by IRAS remains unknown. In our study, the signal transduction pathways 
of IRAS were investigated in CHO cells stably expressing IRAS (CHO-IRAS), and 
compared to the native I1R signaling pathways. Rilmenidine or moxonidine (10 
nM-100 microM), I1R agonists, failed to stimulate [35S]-GTPgammaS binding in 
CHO-IRAS cell membrane preparations, suggesting that G protein may not be 
involved in IRAS signaling pathway. However, incubation of CHO-IRAS with 
rilmenidine or moxonidine for 5 min could induce an upregulation of 
phosphatidylcholine-selective phospholipase C (PC-PLC) activity, and an increase 
in the accumulation of diacylglycerol (DAG), the hydrolysate of PC-PLC, in a 
concentration-dependent manner. The elevated activation of PC-PLC by rilmenidine 
or moxonidine (100 nM) could be blocked by efaroxan, a selective I1R antagonist. 
Cells treated with rilmenidine or moxonidine showed an increased level of 
extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation in a 
concentration-dependent manner, which could be reversed by efaroxan or D609, a 
selective PC-PLC inhibitor. These results suggest that the signaling pathway of 
IRAS in response to I1R agonists coupled with the activation of PC-PLC and its 
downstream signal transduction molecule, ERK. These findings are similar to 
those in the signaling pathways of native I1R, providing some new evidence for 
the relationship between I1R and IRAS.

(c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcb.20806
PMID: 16598778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
