1. FEBS Lett. 2006 May 29;580(13):3070-4. doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2006.04.058.
Epub  2006 Apr 27.

Nischarin as a functional imidazoline (I1) receptor.

Zhang J(1), Abdel-Rahman AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Brody School of Medicine, East 
Carolina University, Greenville, NC 27834, USA.

Gene matching shows that Nischarin is a mouse homologue of human imidazoline 
receptor antisera-selective (IRAS) protein, a viable candidate of the 
imidazoline (I1) receptor. Nischarin and IRAS share the functions of enhancing 
cell survival, growth and migration. Bioinformatics modeling indicates that the 
IRAS and Nischarin may be transmembrane proteins and the convergence information 
raises the interesting possibility that Nischarin might serve as the 
I1-receptor. To test this hypothesis, we developed antibodies against the 
Nischarin protein, and conducted signal transduction (functional) studies with 
the I1-receptor agonist rilmenidine in the presence and absence of Nischarin 
antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs). NIH3T3 cells transfected with the 
Nischarin cDNA and incubated with the newly synthesized antibody expressed a 190 
kD band. The antibody identified endogenous Nischarin in differentiated PC12 
cells around 210 kD, which is consistent with reported findings in other cells 
of neuronal origin. The immunoflourescence findings showed the targeted protein 
to be associated with the cell membrane in PC12 cells. Nischarin ODNs abolished 
the expression of Nischarin in PC12 cells. Equally important, the Nischarin ODNs 
eliminated the production of MAPK(p42/44), a recognized signal transduction 
product generated by I1-receptor activation in differentiated PC12 cells. 
Together, the present findings suggest that Nischarin may serve as the 
functional I1-receptor or at least share a common signaling pathway in the 
differentiated PC12 cells.

DOI: 10.1016/j.febslet.2006.04.058
PMID: 16678176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
