1. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 2006 Apr;20(2):129-34. doi: 10.1007/s10557-006-7653-8.

Reduced hemodynamic responses to physical and mental stress under low-dose 
rilmenidine in healthy subjects.

Teixeira de Castro RR(1), Tibiriçá E, de Oliveira MA, Moreira PB, Catelli MF, 
Rocha NN, Nóbrega AC.

Author information:
(1)Departament of Physiology and Pharmacology, Instituto Biomédico, Universidade 
Federal Fluminense, Rua Prof. Hernani Melo, 101 Niterói, RJ, Brazil CEP 
24210-131.

Activation of the sympathetic nervous system plays a major role in the 
pathogenesis and prognosis of cardiovascular diseases. Rilmenidine is an 
I(1)-imidazoline receptor agonist that reduces blood pressure by modulation of 
central sympathetic activity, but the effects of low-dose rilmenidine on the 
hemodynamic responses to physiological maneuvers that increase adrenergic drive 
is not known. To assess the effects of low-dose rilmenidine on the hemodynamic 
responses to stress, 32 healthy subjects (20-56 years old) underwent acute 
physical exercise (n = 15, individualized ramp protocol on treadmill) and mental 
stress (n = 17, word color Stroop and mental arithmetics tests) two hours after 
the oral administration of 0.5 mg of rilmenidine (RIL) or placebo (PLA) 
following a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled crossover study. No 
subject complained of any side effect. Rilmenidine reduced peak exercise heart 
rate (PLA: 187 +/- 7; RIL: 181 +/- 9 bpm; P = 0.003), but did not modify peak 
aerobic power (VO(2max) - PLA: 41.7 +/- 6.2; RIL: 42.3 +/- 6.7 ml/kg/min; P = 
0.26). During mental stress, rilmenidine inhibited the peak systolic (PLA: 123 
+/- 10; RIL: 114 +/- 8 mmHg; P = 0.02) and diastolic (PLA: 86 +/- 7; RIL: 81 +/- 
7 mmHg; P <0.05) blood pressure responses. In conclusion, rilmenidine reduced 
the hemodynamic response to physical and mental stress stimuli without limiting 
exercise capacity. These results support the concept that rilmenidine, at a dose 
lower than the ones recommended to treat hypertension, reduced the myocardial 
oxygen demand to stress and may carry potential clinical impact.

DOI: 10.1007/s10557-006-7653-8
PMID: 16761192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
