1. Curr Med Res Opin. 2006 Jul;22(7):1287-94. doi: 10.1185/030079906X115577.

Efficacy and tolerability of rilmenidine compared with isradipine in 
hypertensive patients with features of metabolic syndrome.

Widimský J(1), Sirotiaková J.

Author information:
(1)Third Internal Department, Hospital of the First Medical Faculty, Prague, 
Czech Republic. jiri@widimiski@lfl.cuni.cz

OBJECTIVES: A high prevalence of associated metabolic cardiovascular risk 
factors is often observed among hypertensive subjects. The aim of the present 
study was to assess the effects of 1-2 mg/day of rilmenidine, a centrally acting 
antihypertensive agent with selectivity for I(1) imidazoline receptors, vs. 
2.5-5 mg/twice daily of isradipine, a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker, 
in hypertensive patients with features of the metabolic syndrome.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: In this 6-month multicentre, comparative, 
double-blind, parallel group study, the primary objective was to assess the 
effects of the treatments on blood pressure (BP); the secondary endpoints were 
to assess glucose and lipid metabolism, in addition to clinical and biological 
tolerability. In non-responder patients, dose adjustment was possible from the 
first month and adding a diuretic from the third month.
RESULTS: Of an intention-to-treat population of 93 patients, 84 per protocol 
patients completed the study: 42 in the rilmenidine group and 42 in the 
isradipine group. BP decreased significantly (p < 0.001) and similarly in both 
groups (systolic blood pressure, SBP: -16.0 +/- 17.2 mmHg and -15.0 +/- 13.0 
mmHg, and diastolic blood pressure, DBP: -9.0 +/- 9.4 mmHg and -9.0 +/- 8.7 mmHg 
with rilmenidine and isradipine, respectively). Normalisation (DBP < 90 mmHg and 
SBP < 140 mmHg) and response (normalisation or decrease in SBP >or= 20 mmHg or 
decrease in DBP >or= 10 mmHg) rates were respectively 57% and 72% with 
rilmenidine and 64% and 79% with isradipine (NS between groups). The effects of 
the treatments on both glucose and lipid metabolism were comparable: no 
significant difference from baseline was observed on the main parameters 
including insulin sensitivity indexes. The two treatments appeared to be well 
tolerated throughout the study, with no serious adverse reaction reported in the 
rilmenidine group and one serious adverse event in the isradipine group (a 
perimalleolar oedema), leading to withdrawal from the study for the affected 
patient.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that in hypertensive patients with metabolic 
disorders, rilmenidine is an effective antihypertensive treatment, comparable to 
isradipine, with metabolic neutrality and a good tolerance profile.

DOI: 10.1185/030079906X115577
PMID: 16834827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
