1. Eur J Pharmacol. 1991 Dec 17;209(3):213-21. doi: 10.1016/0014-2999(91)90172-m.

Selectivity of rilmenidine for the nucleus reticularis lateralis, a 
ventrolateral medullary structure containing imidazoline-preferring receptors.

Tibiriça E(1), Feldman J, Mermet C, Monassier L, Gonon F, Bousquet P.

Author information:
(1)CNRS URA 589, Faculté de Médecine, Université Louis Pasteur, Strasbourg, 
France.

Neuronal metabolic activity was studied by in vivo electrochemistry in two brain 
areas of the anesthetized rat: the nucleus reticularis lateralis (NRL) region of 
the ventrolateral medulla oblongata - site of the hypotensive action of 
clonidine-like imidazolines - and the locus coeruleus (LC), which is involved in 
the sedative effect of these drugs. Hypotensive doses of i.v. rilmenidine (0.3 
and 1.5 mg/kg), which is structurally related to clonidine, induced a 
dose-related inhibition of the metabolic activity of catecholaminergic neurons 
in the NRL region whereas higher doses (50-fold) were required to inhibit the 
activity of the catecholaminergic neurons in the locus coeruleus. On the other 
hand azepexole, another centrally acting antihypertensive drug that is not 
structurally related to the imidazolines failed to inhibit the neuronal 
metabolic activity of the NRL region when administered i.v. in hypotensive doses 
(1 mg/kg). Taken together, these findings suggest that the central hypotensive 
action of clonidine-like drugs requires the imidazoline structure or 
pharmacologically compatible compounds like rilmenidine. Our results also show 
that rilmenidine is twice as selective as clonidine for the NRL region, which 
contains imidazoline-preferring receptors, compared with the LC, which contains 
mainly alpha 2-adrenoceptors. In conclusion, this study provides a functional 
confirmation of the dissociation between the therapeutic (hypotensive) and 
untoward (sedative) effects of rilmenidine.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(91)90172-m
PMID: 1686768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
