1. Recenti Prog Med. 1991 Dec;82(12):682-5.

[Respiratory effects of antihypertensive agents acting on alpha adrenergic 
receptors].

[Article in Italian]

Malerba M(1), Agabiti-Rosei E.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Medicina interna, UOP Scienze mediche, Universit√†, Brescia.

There are several factors involved in the bronchial muscle tone regulation, such 
as biochemical, nervous and humoral mechanisms. In general, in chronic 
obstructive bronchopneumopathy there is a reduction in air flow, due to 
different physiopathologic factors which, alone or combined, produce these 
disorders. In particular, according to suggestive hypotheses, it seems that 
asthma is due to a partial or complete block of beta-receptors with a prevalence 
of alpha-receptors and subsequent bronchial hypertonicity and hyperactivity, 
while in patients with allergic asthma a deficiency of beta-2-adrenergic system 
and an hyperresponsiveness of alpha-adrenergic and/or cholinergic system have 
been suggested. In relation to this part, alpha-1 antagonist drugs demonstrated 
to have a bronchodilator effect, thanks to their mechanism of action. Examples 
of this class of drugs are prazosin, indoramin, and an analogous of prazosin, 
doxazosin, which has a high antagonist and selective action for post-synaptic 
alpha-1 adrenergic receptors and a longer half-life. Several and recent 
observations show that these drugs do not interfere with the respiratory 
function principal parameters, both in healthy and in asthmatic or chronic 
bronchopathy subjects, but produce an appreciable improvement of these 
parameters. Presynaptic alpha-2-adrenergic receptors agonist drugs would mainly 
act by inhibiting the central nervous system, with a subsequent lower 
stimulation of post-synaptic alpha-1-adrenergic receptors. Examples of this 
class of drugs are clonidine, rilmenidine and guanabenz (but, in this case, the 
effects on the respiratory function are more controversial).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED 
AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1687712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
