1. Cell Mol Neurobiol. 2006 Jul-Aug;26(4-6):645-57. doi:
10.1007/s10571-006-9109-x.  Epub 2006 Aug 2.

Centrally acting imidazolines stimulate vascular alpha 1A-adrenergic receptors 
in Rat-Tail Artery.

Kennedy WB(1), Crane L, Gonzalez RR, George OK, Edwards LP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology/Physiology, Loma Linda University, Risley Hall, 
110421 Campus Street, Loma Linda, California 92350, USA.

: 1. Centrally acting imidazoline antihypertensive agents clonidine and 
moxonidine also act peripherally to contract blood vessels. While these agents 
act at both I(1)-imidazoline and alpha 2 adrenergic receptors centrally, the 
receptor types by which they mediate contraction require further definition. We 
therefore characterized the receptor subtype by which these agents mediate 
contraction of proximal rat-tail artery. 2. Dose-response curves were determined 
for phenylephrine and for several imidazoline ligands, using endothelium 
denuded, isolated ring segments, of tail arteries from adult male Sprague-Dawley 
rats. Ring segments were mounted on a force transducer with platinum wires and 
immersed in a tissue bath containing Krebs solution, to which drugs could be 
added. Signals were digitized and recorded by a computer. 3. Tail artery 
contractions expressed as a percent of contraction to 106 mM potassium were 
phenylephrine (96%), moxonidine (88%), clonidine (52%), and UK14304 (30%). 
Neither rilmenidine nor harmane caused contraction. Contraction of tail artery 
to moxonidine or clonidine could be blocked by alpha 1 antagonist urapidil or 
prazosin, and also by alpha 1A subtype selective antagonist WB4101. Schild plots 
were generated and a calculated pA2 value of 9.2 for prazosin in the presence of 
clonidine confirms clonidine as an agonist at alpha 1A receptors in proximal 
segments of rat-tail artery. 4. Our work suggests that clonidine and moxonidine 
are promiscuous compounds at micromolar concentrations and that harmane and 
rilmenidine are more selective compounds for in vivo imidazoline research.

DOI: 10.1007/s10571-006-9109-x
PMID: 16897362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
