1. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1991 Dec;18(6):819-26. doi: 
10.1097/00005344-199112000-00006.

Importance of central noradrenergic and serotonergic pathways in the 
cardiovascular actions of rilmenidine and clonidine.

Head GA(1), Burke S.

Author information:
(1)Baker Medical Research Institute, Prahran, Australia.

We examined the role of central monoamine neurotransmitters noradrenaline and 
serotonin in the cardiovascular actions of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist 
rilmenidine in the conscious rabbit and compared it to clonidine. Rilmenidine 
and clonidine were equieffective in producing a maximum 24% reduction in blood 
pressure and heart rate when given intracisternally (i.c.), but rilmenidine was 
approximately 20-30 times less potent than clonidine. The effective i.c. doses 
of both drugs were 25-30 times lower than those required peripherally (i.v.). 
Comparison of the time course of an equieffective dose of rilmenidine and 
clonidine showed that the time to reach maximum effect was 10 min for both drugs 
but time to recovery was greater for rilmenidine (2.5-3 h vs. 1.5 h for 
clonidine). Destruction of central noradrenergic neuron pathways with i.c. 
6-hydroxydopamine attenuated the hypotensive and bradycardic actions of both 
rilmenidine and clonidine at 2, 4, and 8 weeks after treatment. The maximum 
observed attenuation of the hypotension was at 8 weeks (40% of control for 
rilmenidine and 29% for clonidine), while for the bradycardia this was at 2 
weeks (9 and 2% of control, respectively) with some recovery by 8 weeks (29 and 
50% of control). Destruction of the central serotonergic neurons with i.c. 
5,6-dihydroxytryptamine also attenuated the hypotension and bradycardia to 
rilmenidine and clonidine but was slower in onset, needing the full 8 weeks to 
reach its maximum effect. At this time the hypotension and bradycardia to 
rilmenidine and clonidine were reduced to between 35 and 48% of 
control.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-199112000-00006
PMID: 1725893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
