1. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2007 Apr;31(4):684-93. doi: 
10.1111/j.1530-0277.2007.00353.x.

Direct evidence for imidazoline (I1) receptor modulation of ethanol action on 
norepinephrine-containing neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla in 
conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Li G(1), Abdel-Rahman AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Brody School of Medicine at East 
Carolina University, Greenville, North Carolina 27858, USA.

BACKGROUND: Enhancement of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) 
presympathetic (norepinephrine, NE) neuronal activity represents a neurochemical 
mechanism for the pressor effect of ethanol. In this study, we tested the 
hypothesis that ethanol action on RVLM presympathetic neurons is selectively 
influenced by the signaling of the local imidazoline (I1) receptor. To support a 
neuroanatomical and an I1-signaling selectivity of ethanol, and to circumvent 
the confounding effects of anesthesia, the dose-related neurochemical and blood 
pressure effects of ethanol were investigated in the presence of selective 
pharmacological interventions that cause reduction in the activity of RVLM or 
nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) NE neurons via local activation of the I1 or 
the alpha2-adrenergic receptor in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats.
RESULTS: Local activation of the I1 receptor by rilmenidine (40 nmol) or by the 
I1/alpha2 receptor mixed agonist clonidine (1 nmol), and local activation of the 
alpha2-adrenergic receptor (alpha2AR) by the pure alpha2AR agonist 
alpha-methylnorepinephrine (alpha-MNE, 10 nmol) caused reductions in RVLM NE, 
and blood pressure. Intra-RVLM ethanol (1, 5, or 10 microg), microinjected at 
the nadir of the neurochemical and hypotensive responses, elicited 
dose-dependent increments in RVLM NE and blood pressure in the presence of local 
I1--but not alpha2-receptor activation. Only intra-NTS alpha-MNE, but not 
rilmenidine or clonidine, elicited reductions in local NE and blood pressure; 
ethanol failed to elicit any neurochemical or blood pressure responses in the 
presence of local activation of the alpha2AR within the NTS.
CONCLUSION: The findings support the neuroanatomical selectivity of ethanol, and 
support the hypothesis that the neurochemical (RVLM NE), and the subsequent 
cardiovascular, effects of ethanol are selectively modulated by I1 receptor 
signaling in the RVLM.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1530-0277.2007.00353.x
PMID: 17374048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
