1. J Clin Hypertens (Greenwich). 2007 May;9(5):399-405. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-6175.2007.07161.x.

Centrally acting antihypertensive agents: an update.

Sica DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth 
University, Richmond, VA 23298-0160, USA. dsica@hsc.vcu.edu

Centrally acting agents stimulate alpha(2) receptors and/or imadozoline 
receptors on adrenergic neurons situated within the rostral ventrolateral 
medulla and, in so doing, sympathetic outflow is reduced. Centrally acting 
agents also stimulate peripheral alpha(2) receptors, which, for the most part, 
is of marginal clinical significance. Central a agonists have had a lengthy 
history of use, starting with alpha-methyldopa, which has had a dramatic decline 
in use, in part, because of bothersome side effects. Patients who require 
multidrug therapy with otherwise resistant hypertension, such as diabetic and/or 
renal failure patients, are typically responsive to these drugs, as are patients 
with sympathetically driven forms of hypertension. Perioperative forms of 
hypertension respond well to clonidine, a circumstance where the additional 
anesthesia- and analgesia-sparing effects of this drug may offer additional 
clinical benefits. Clonidine can be used adjunctively with other more 
traditional therapies in heart failure, particularly when hypertension is 
present. Sustained-release moxonidine, however, is associated with early 
mortality and morbidity when used in patients with heart failure. Escalating 
doses of drugs in this class often give rise to salt and water retention, in 
which case diuretic therapy becomes a valuable adjunctive therapy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-6175.2007.07161.x
PMCID: PMC8110163
PMID: 17485976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
