1. Neurochem Int. 2007 Oct;51(5):289-96. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2007.07.001. Epub 
2007 Jul 5.

Analysis of the role of central and peripheral alpha2-adrenoceptor subtypes in 
gastric mucosal defense in the rat.

Gyires K(1), Zádori ZS, Shujaa N, Minorics R, Falkay G, Mátyus P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, Faculty of Medicine, 
Semmelweis University, Nagyvárad tér 4, 1089 Budapest, Hungary. 
gyirkla@pharma.sote.hu

The present study confirmed our previous assumption on the crucial role of 
central alpha2B-like adrenoceptor subtype in gastric mucosal defense. It was 
found that beside clonidine, rilmenidine, an alpha2/imidazoline receptor agonist 
and ST-91, an alpha2B-adrenoceptor preferring agonist inhibited the mucosal 
lesions induced by ethanol given intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.). The ED50 
values for clonidine, rilmenidine and ST-91 are 0.2, 0.01 and 16 nmol/rat 
i.c.v., respectively. The effect was reversed by the intracerebroventricularly 
injected alpha2B/2C-adrenoceptor antagonists prazosin and ARC-239, indicating 
the potential involvement of central alpha2B/2C-adrenoceptor subtype in the 
protective action. The gastroprotective effect of adrenoceptor stimulants was 
reversed by bilateral cervical vagotomy, suggesting that vagal nerve is likely 
to convey the central action to the periphery. In gastric mucosa both nitric 
oxide and prostaglandins may mediate the centrally-induced effect, since both 
indomethacin and N(G)-nitro-L-arginine reversed the protective effect of 
alpha2-adrenergic stimulants. Though expression of mRNA of alpha2B-, as well as 
alpha2A- and alpha2C-adrenoceptor subtypes was demonstrated in gastric mucosa of 
the rat, the hydrophilic ST-91, given peripherally (orally, subcutaneously), 
failed to exert mucosal protection, in contrast with clonidine and rilmenidine 
which were also effective. Consequently, while peripheral alpha2B-adrenoceptors 
are not likely to be involved in gastric mucosal protection, activation of 
central alpha2B-like adrenoceptor subtype may initiate a chain of events, which 
result in a vagal dependent gastroprotective action.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2007.07.001
PMID: 17707950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
