1. Fundam Clin Pharmacol. 1991;5(8):651-61. doi: 
10.1111/j.1472-8206.1991.tb00755.x.

Regional hemodynamic effects of rilmenidine and clonidine in the conscious 
spontaneously hypertensive rat.

Smits JF(1), Struyker-Boudier HA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Limburg, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands.

Rilmenidine is an oxazoline analogue that has antihypertensive properties that 
resemble those of clonidine. Since rilmenidine has recently been described to 
have a relatively greater affinity for imidazoline receptors than clonidine, it 
was of interest to study whether this has functional consequences with regard to 
the regional hemodynamic responses. We investigated regional hemodynamics in 
conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats, equipped with miniature Doppler flow 
probes on the renal and mesenteric arteries and on the abdominal aorta. 
Clonidine (3-30 micrograms/kg) and rilmenidine (0.2-3 mg/kg) induced similar, 
dose-dependent reductions in heart rate. Both also induced an early hypertensive 
response, which was greater with rilmenidine, and similar later blood pressure 
reductions, which were maintained over 3 h. The early hypertensive response was 
associated with generalized vasoconstriction. Rilmenidine caused slightly 
greater mesenteric and hindquarter constriction than clonidine, whereas renal 
effects did not differ significantly. During the hypotensive phase, rilmenidine 
was a less potent mesenteric and hindquarter vasodilator than clonidine. During 
this phase, renal blood flow was at control levels, probably indicating 
autoregulation of renal flow. The minor differences in regional hemodynamic 
effects suggest that clonidine and rilmenidine can both be used as potent 
antihypertensives. The fact that rilmenidine has been suggested to possess less 
sedative side-effects suggests that, on this basis, it may be superior for 
antihypertensive drug therapy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1472-8206.1991.tb00755.x
PMID: 1783359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
