1. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2008 Jan;324(1):72-8. doi: 10.1124/jpet.107.129049. Epub
 2007 Oct 16.

Inhibition of nischarin expression attenuates rilmenidine-evoked hypotension and 
phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 production in the 
rostral ventrolateral medulla of rats.

Zhang J(1), Abdel-Rahman AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Brody School of Medicine, East 
Carolina University, Greenville, NC 27834, USA.

Imidazoline (I(1))-evoked hypotension is linked to enhanced phosphorylated 
extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pERK)1/2 production in the rostral 
ventrolateral medulla (RVLM). Recent cell culture findings suggest that 
nischarin is a candidate for the I(1) receptor. In the present study, nischarin 
antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) (AS1 or AS2), designed according to 
nischarin cDNA sequence, was administered intracisternally (i.c., 2 nmol/rat for 
2 days) to knockdown central nischarin expression; control rats received the 
corresponding mismatched ODN (MM1 or MM2) or artificial cerebrospinal fluid 
(aCSF). We investigated the effects of AS1 or AS2 on nischarin expression in the 
RVLM, and on the hypotension and RVLM pERK1/2 production elicited by the 
I(1)-selective agonist rilmenidine (25 mug/rat i.c.). Compared with aCSF, the 
mismatched ODN (MM1 or MM2) had no significant effect on RVLM nischarin 
expression or the cardiovascular and cellular (RVLM pERK1/2) responses elicited 
by rilmenidine. However, either antisense ODN substantially (>80%) reduced 
nischarin expression in the RVLM (AS1/MM1, 3 +/- 1 versus 32 +/- 2 positive 
cells; AS2/MM2, 4 +/- 1 versus 31 +/- 2 positive cells) and abrogated 
rilmenidine (I(1))-evoked hypotension (AS1/MM1, -4.1 +/- 0.9 versus -10.8 +/- 
1.9 mm Hg; AS2/MM2, -2.1 +/- 1.1 versus -15.3 +/- 2.5 mm Hg) and ERK1/2 
activation in the RVLM (AS1/MM1, 10 +/- 1 versus 15 +/- 2 positive cells; 
AS2/MM2, 9 +/- 1 versus 18 +/- 2 positive cells). Finally, pERK1/2 generated by 
central I(1) receptor activation is colocalized with nischarin in the RVLM 
neurons. This is the first evidence in vivo that nischarin plays a critical role 
in I(1) receptor-mediated pERK1/2 production in the RVLM and the subsequent 
hypotension.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.107.129049
PMCID: PMC2704025
PMID: 17940198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
