1. Presse Med. 1991 Aug 31-Sep 7;20(27):1265-71.

[Rilmenidine, a new antihypertensive agent in the first line treatment of 
essential arterial hypertension. Multicenter double-blind study versus 
atenolol].

[Article in French]

Dallocchio M(1), Gosse P, Fillastre JP, Grollier G, Morand P, Drici M, Corcoran 
C.

Author information:
(1)Service des Maladies du coeur et des vaisseaux, Hôpital Cardiologique du 
Haut-Lévêque, Bordeaux-Pessac.

After 4 weeks on placebo, 90 hypertensive patients (37 men, 53 women, mean age 
55 years) with systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressures of 162/99 and 
165/100 mmHg respectively received double-blind treatment with either 
rilmenidine 1 mg/day or atenolol 50 mg/day. This treatment was given alone for 8 
weeks, with possible DBP greater than or equal to 90 mmHg, hydrochlorothiazide 
25 mg/day was added between the 9th and 12th weeks of treatment. At week 13 all 
treatments were replaced by placebo. Both groups were similar at randomisation, 
and both treatments were similarly effective: after 8 weeks of monotherapy with 
rilmenidine or atenolol, the SBP/DBP had decreased by -18/-13 mmHg and by 
-21/-15 mmHg respectively, and the proportion of patients with normalised blood 
pressure (SBP/DBP less than or equal to 160/90 mmHg) was 66 percent and 65 
percent. Effectiveness was maintained at 12 weeks, when less than 20 percent of 
the patients had taken hydrochlorothiazide. Both drugs were well tolerated 
clinically and electrocardiographically. There was a significantly greater 
decrease in heart rate on atenolol than on rilmenidine. Eleven patients (5 on 
rilmenidine, 6 on atenolol) dropped out of the trial, 2 and 3 patients in the 
respective groups on account of side-effects. Laboratory tests showed that the 
HDL-cholesterol level significantly decreased on atenolol and remained stable on 
rilmenidine (P less than 0.01), whereas the LDL-cholesterol level was stable on 
atenolol and decreased on rilmenidine (P less than 0.05). No rebound in blood 
pressure was observed on discontinuation of both treatments. This study shows 
that rilmenidine administered as first-line treatment is as effective as 
atenolol in lowering blood pressure, and it confirms that this drug is 
clinically and biochemically well tolerated.

PMID: 1832761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
