1. Clin Ther. 2008 Mar;30(3):482-98. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2008.03.006.

The effects of amlodipine and enalapril on renal function in adults with 
hypertension and nondiabetic nephropathies: a 3-year, randomized, multicenter, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled study.

Esnault VL(1), Brown EA, Apetrei E, Bagon J, Calvo C, DeChatel R, Holdaas H, 
Krcmery S, Kobalava Z; Amlodipine Versus Enalapril in Renal failure (AVER) Study 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Pasteur Hospital, Universit√© de Nice-Sofia Antipolis, Nice, France. 
esnault.v@chu-nice.fr

BACKGROUND: Placebo-controlled trials have found that angiotensin-converting 
enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) decrease proteinuria and slow the progression of 
nondiabetic nephropathies. However, head-to-head comparisons of ACEIs and 
calcium channel blockers (CCBs) have shown conflicting results. Indeed, a recent 
metaanalysis concluded that there is still uncertainty about the greater 
renoprotection seen with ACEIs or angiotensin II receptor blockers in 
nondiabetic patients with renal disease, particularly when using true glomerular 
filtration rate (GFR) as the primary outcome.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this 3-year, randomized, multicenter, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study was to compare true GFR decline (measured by yearly 
51Cr-EDTA blood clearance) in nondiabetic, nonnephrotic adult hypertensive 
patients with estimated creatinine clearance of 20 to 60 mL/min.1.73 m(2), when 
randomized to a CCB (amlodipine, 5-10 mg/d) or an ACEI (enalapril, 5-20 mg/d).
METHODS: Patients (aged 18-80 years) entered a 4-week placebo run-in washout 
period and previous antihypertensive drugs were tapered off over 2 weeks. Add-on 
treatments were atenolol (50-100 mg/d), loop diuretics (furosemide, 20-500 mg/d 
or torsemide, 5-200 mg/d), alpha-blockers (prazosin, 2.5-5 mg/d or doxazosin, 
1-16 mg/d), and centrally acting drugs (rilmenidine, 1-2 mg/d or methyldopa, 
250-500 mg/d). The primary end point was true GFR measured by yearly (51)Cr-EDTA 
blood clearance. Secondary end points included a clinical composite of renal 
events and tolerability collected by a full clinical and laboratory evaluation 
at each study visit. Post hoc analyses for the change in GFR, proteinuria, and 
time to clinical events were also planned on baseline proteinuria subgroups (<1 
and >or=1 g/d) before unblinding the database.
RESULTS: Three hundred eighteen patients entered the run-in period and 263 
patients (156 men/107 women; mean age, 58 years) were randomized to receive 
either amlodipine (5 mg/d, n=132) or enalapril (5 mg/d, n=131). Blood pressure 
declined from 165/102 mm Hg to 138/84 mm Hg and 138/85 mm Hg with amlodipine and 
enalapril, respectively (no between-group significance). Only 20.8% of the 
patients randomized to ACEI treatment received diuretics at the last 
observation. No statistically significant difference was found between 
amlodipine and enalapril in GFR decline (-4.92 and -3.98 mL/min.1.73 m(2), 
respectively, at last observation) and composite secondary end point after a 
median follow-up of 2.9 years, including in the subgroup of patients with 
proteinuria >1 g/d at baseline. Protein excretion rate decreased significantly 
from baseline in patients taking enalapril plus diuretics (median -270 mg/d; 
P<0.001) but not in patients taking amlodipine plus diuretics (-25 mg/d at last 
observation).
CONCLUSION: In this cohort of nondiabetic, nonnephrotic hypertensive patients, 
no statistically significant difference in true GFR decline was found over 3 
years between amlodipine-treated patients and enalapril-treated patients with 
main add-on treatment with ss-blockers, including in the subgroup of patients 
with proteinuria >1 g/d.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2008.03.006
PMID: 18405787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
