1. J Hum Hypertens. 2009 Apr;23(4):259-66. doi: 10.1038/jhh.2008.127. Epub 2008
Oct  23.

Efficacy of exercise, losartan, enalapril, atenolol and rilmenidine in subjects 
with blood pressure hyperreactivity at treadmill stress test and left 
ventricular hypertrophy.

Avanza AC Jr(1), Mansur AP, Ramires JA.

Author information:
(1)Instituto do Coração (InCor) do Hospital das Clínicas da Faculdade de 
Medicina do Estado de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

High levels of activity of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) and sympathetic 
nervous system (SNS) are related to left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). A 
percentage of subjects with hyperactivity to treadmill stress test show LVH to 
echocardiogram. This paper aims at evaluating neurohumoral influence over these 
subjects by comparing drugs that block both the RAS and the SNS. In a 1-year 
open protocol, 195 normotensive subjects, with hyperactivity to treadmill stress 
test and LVH, were randomly assigned to supervised physical exercise, 
rilmenidine 1 mg day(-1), atenolol 50 mg day(-1), enalapril 10 mg day(-1) or 
losartan 50 mg day(-1). Changes in left ventricular mass index (LVMI), measured 
by means of echocardiogram, were the primary end point. Changes in systolic 
blood pressure (SBP) at rest and peak effort were also evaluated. Enalapril 
significantly brought LVMI down in relation to the basal value (28.2%; n=36) 
similarly to losartan (26.9%; n=42); P>0.05. However, both were more efficient 
than physical exercise (2.9%; n=39), rilmenidine (5.1%; n=38) and atenolol 
(7.2%; n=40); P<0.001. There was no significant difference in SBP reduction at 
rest and peak effort in groups assigned to atenolol, enalapril and losartan; 
P>0.05. In such groups, reduction was greater than in groups assigned to 
physical exercise and rimenidine; P<0.001. In conclusion, drugs that block RAS 
were more efficient in reducing LVH than physical exercise and drugs that block 
SNS, and such reduction took place regardless of SBP level reduction at rest and 
peak effort.

DOI: 10.1038/jhh.2008.127
PMID: 18946484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
