1. Life Sci. 2009 Jan 16;84(3-4):111-8. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2008.11.006. Epub 2008
 Nov 17.

Chronic ethanol attenuates centrally-mediated hypotension elicited via 
alpha(2)-adrenergic, but not I(1)-imidazoline, receptor activation in female 
rats.

El-Mas MM(1), Abdel-Rahman AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, East Carolina University, 
Greenville, NC 27834, USA.

AIMS: This study dealt with the effect of chronic ethanol administration on 
hemodynamic responses elicited by alpha(2)-adrenergic (alpha-methyldopa) or 
I(1)-imidazoline (rilmenidine) receptor activation in telemetered female rats.
MAIN METHODS: The effects of alpha-methyldopa or rilmenidine on blood pressure 
(BP), heart rate (HR) and their variability were investigated in rats that 
received liquid diet without or with ethanol (5% w/v) for 12 weeks. To evaluate 
the effect of each drug on cardiovascular autonomic control (BP and HR 
variability) in the absence or presence of ethanol, three time-domain indices of 
hemodynamic variability were measured: (i) standard deviation of mean arterial 
pressure (SDMAP), (ii) standard deviation of beat-to-beat intervals, and (iii) 
root mean square of successive differences in R-R intervals.
KEY FINDINGS: In liquid diet-fed control rats, i.p. rilmenidine (600 microg/kg) 
or alpha-methyldopa (100 mg/kg) reduced BP along with decreases and increases, 
respectively, in HR. Both drugs had no effect on HR variability but reduced BP 
variability (SDMAP), suggesting a reduced vasomotor sympathetic tone. Ethanol 
feeding attenuated reductions in BP and SDMAP evoked by alpha-methyldopa but not 
by rilmenidine.
SIGNIFICANCE: We conclude that chronic ethanol preferentially compromises 
alpha(2)- but not I(1)-receptor-mediated hypotension in female rats probably via 
modulation of vasomotor sympathetic activity. These findings highlight the 
adequacy of rilmenidine use to lower BP in hypertensive alcoholic females.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2008.11.006
PMCID: PMC2631659
PMID: 19041658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
