1. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2009 Mar;33(3):408-18. doi: 
10.1111/j.1530-0277.2008.00860.x. Epub 2008 Dec 13.

Alpha 2A-adrenergic receptor signaling underlies synergistic enhancement of 
ethanol-induced behavioral impairment by clonidine.

Bender TS(1), Abdel-Rahman AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Brody School of Medicine, East 
Carolina University, Greenville, North Carolina 27834, USA.

BACKGROUND: We tested the hypothesis that central alpha(2A)-adrenergic receptor 
(alpha(2A)AR) signaling plays a key role in clonidine-ethanol evoked synergistic 
behavioral impairment.
METHODS: Male Sprague-Dawley rats, with intracisternal and jugular vein cannulae 
implanted 6 days earlier, were tested for drug-induced behavioral impairment. 
The latter was assessed as the duration of loss of righting reflex (LORR) and 
rotorod performance every 15 minutes until the rat recovered to the baseline 
walk criterion (180 seconds). In a separate cohort, c-Fos expression in locus 
coeruleus (LC) and cerebellum was determined as a marker of neuronal activity 
following drug treatment.
RESULTS: Rats that received clonidine (60 microg/kg, i.v.) followed by ethanol 
(1 g/kg, i.v.) exhibited synergistic impairment of rotorod performance and LORR. 
The mixed alpha(2A)AR and I(1)-imidazoline receptor agonist clonidine (30, 60, 
and 90 microg/kg) synergistically and dose-dependently enhanced behavioral 
impairment elicited by ethanol (1 g/kg). Possible involvement of 
I(1)-imidazoline receptors was ruled out because selective I(1)-agonist 
rilmenidine (300 microg/kg, i.v.) did not cause behavioral impairment alone or 
enhance ethanol-evoked behavioral impairment. Pharmacological blockade of 
central alpha(2A)AR (RX821002, 0.3 mg i.c.) abolished the synergy between 
clonidine and ethanol; the behavioral response caused by the drug combination 
was similar to that caused by ethanol alone. Conversely, involvement of central 
alpha(2B)AR in the interaction was ruled out because blockade of central 
alpha(2B)AR (ARC-239) independently evoked a strong sedative effect. Clonidine 
(60 microg/kg) or ethanol (1 g/kg) alone increased, but their combination 
decreased, c-Fos levels in LC, while inconsistent c-Fos responses were observed 
in cerebellum.
CONCLUSIONS: Central alpha(2A)AR, but not I(1)-imidazoline or alpha(2B)AR, 
signaling is implicated in the synergistic enhancement of ethanol-evoked 
behavioral impairment by clonidine. Although the mechanism of c-Fos response 
remains to be investigated, this neurochemical response highlights the LC as a 
neuroanatomical target for clonidine-ethanol behavioral interaction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1530-0277.2008.00860.x
PMCID: PMC3496932
PMID: 19120051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
