1. J Hypertens. 2009 Jan;27(1):132-41. doi: 10.1097/hjh.0b013e328317a7a7.

Cardiac and renal baroreflex control during stress in conscious renovascular 
hypertensive rabbits: effect of rilmenidine.

Burke SL(1), Head GA.

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Baker Heart Research Institute, Melbourne, 
Australia.

Erratum in
    J Hypertens. 2009 Aug;27(8):1717.

Comment in
    J Hypertens. 2009 Jan;27(1):31-3.

OBJECTIVE: We examined whether renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA) and heart 
rate (HR) baroreflexes in conscious rabbits were altered by exposure to a 
combination of stress and hypertension and determined how this was modified by 
acute and chronic treatment with the sympathoinhibitory agent rilmenidine.
METHODS: Rabbits were made hypertensive with a renal-artery clip and a renal 
nerve recording electrode was implanted 4-5 weeks later. After recovery, 
baroreflexes were measured before and during airjet stress and again after 
receiving rilmenidine (either acutely or by infusion for 3 weeks).
RESULTS: Renal clipping increased mean arterial pressure (MAP) and shifted 
baroreflex RSNA and HR curves rightward. The HR and RSNA upper plateaus were 
similar to those of normotensive animals but HR baroreflex sensitivity was 
reduced in the hypertensive group. Airjet stress lowered HR baroreflex 
sensitivity in sham but not in hypertensive rabbits. By contrast, stress 
increased the baroreflex-induced maximum RSNA in hypertensive animals but not in 
normotensive rabbits. MAP variability was greater in the hypertensive group but 
was unaffected by airjet stress. Acute and chronic rilmenidine lowered MAP to 
close to normotensive levels, markedly reduced MAP variability and RSNA but did 
not prevent the RSNA baroreflex facilitation produced by airjet stress.
CONCLUSION: Baroreflex control of HR was diminished by either hypertension or 
acute airjet stress but the effects were not additive. Although the 
baroreflex-induced RSNA maximum was increased by stress only in hypertensive 
animals, rilmenidine was effective in minimizing the reflex autonomic 
disturbances produced by hypertension and stress.

DOI: 10.1097/hjh.0b013e328317a7a7
PMID: 19145779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
