1. Eur J Pharmacol. 2009 Jun 10;612(1-3):1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2009.03.077. 
Epub 2009 Apr 6.

Comparison of agmatine with moxonidine and rilmenidine in morphine dependence in 
vitro: role of imidazoline I(1) receptors.

Li F(1), Wu N, Su RB, Liu Y, Lu XQ, Li J.

Author information:
(1)Beijing Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, 27th Taiping Road, Beijing 
100850, China.

Moxonidine and rilmenidine are classical imidazoline I(1) receptor agonists, and 
used as anti-hypertension drugs in clinical practice. Agmatine is an imidazoline 
I(1) receptor endogenous ligand as well as its agonist, but more and more 
evidences suggest it has no influence on blood pressure. In the present study we 
compared the effects of moxonidine, rilmenidine and agmatine in the development 
of morphine dependence, and investigated the role of imidazoline I(1) receptor 
in the effects of these agents. Chinese hamster ovary cells co-expressing mu 
opioid receptor and imidazoline receptor antisera-selected protein (IRAS), the 
strong candidate for imidazoline I(1) receptor, were used as the cell line. cAMP 
overshoot, which represents an opioid dependent state in vitro, was measured to 
study the effects on morphine dependence. siRNA against IRAS was carried out to 
investigate the role of imidazoline I(1) receptor. Moxonidine and rilmenidine 
(0.01-10 microM) were ineffective on cAMP level in the cells when given alone, 
and failed to inhibit chronic morphine exposure, naloxone-precipitated cAMP 
overshoot when co-pretreated with morphine. Agmatine (0.01-10 microM) by itself 
was ineffective but co-pretreated with morphine concentration-dependently 
inhibited chronic morphine exposure, naloxone-precipitated cAMP overshoot in the 
cells. Furthermore, we found that the inhibitory effect of agmatine (100 nM and 
1 microM) on cAMP overshoot was significantly reduced by siRNA against IRAS. 
This study indicates that agmatine can inhibit the development of morphine 
dependence in vitro, whereas moxonidine and rilmenidine have no the effect. 
Imidazoline I(1) receptor plays an important role in agmatine inhibiting 
morphine dependence.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2009.03.077
PMID: 19356733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
