1. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 2010 Mar;55(3):240-7. doi:
10.1097/FJC.0b013e3181ce9810.

Microvascular effects of centrally acting antihypertensive drugs in 
spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Nascimento AR(1), Lessa MA, Sabino B, Bousquet P, Tibiriçá E.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cardiovascular Investigation, Oswaldo Cruz Institute, FIOCRUZ, 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

We investigated the effects of oral long-term antihypertensive treatment using 
centrally acting sympathoinhibitory drugs on capillary density in the skin, 
skeletal muscle, and heart in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR). Wistar 
Kyoto rats (WKY) were used as normotensive control groups. Functional capillary 
density was assessed using intravital fluorescence videomicroscopy and 
structural capillary density with histochemical analysis. Groups of 10 SHRs were 
orally treated over 28 days with clonidine (0.1 mg x kg x d), rilmenidine (1 mg 
x kg x d), or moxonidine (10 mg x kg x d). A group of WKY was also treated with 
clonidine (0.1 mg x kg x d). Treatment with all antihypertensive drugs induced a 
normalization of arterial pressure accompanied by a reversion of functional 
capillary rarefaction in the skeletal muscle and skin of SHR. Clonidine 
treatment also reduced arterial pressure and increased functional capillary 
density in the skin and skeletal muscle of WKY. Histochemical analysis showed 
that SHR had a lower capillary to fiber ratio in the skeletal muscle (P < 
0.0001), which was normalized by all treatments. The capillary volume density to 
fiber volume density ratio in the left ventricle of SHR was also significantly 
reduced (P < 0.0001). However, myocardial capillary rarefaction was not altered 
by the different treatments. In conclusion, the results showed that long-term 
antihypertensive treatment with centrally acting drugs enhanced tissue perfusion 
and reversed capillary rarefaction in the skeletal muscle of SHRs.

DOI: 10.1097/FJC.0b013e3181ce9810
PMID: 20040886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
