1. Hum Mol Genet. 2010 Jun 1;19(11):2144-53. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddq093. Epub 2010
Feb  27.

Rilmenidine attenuates toxicity of polyglutamine expansions in a mouse model of 
Huntington's disease.

Rose C(1), Menzies FM, Renna M, Acevedo-Arozena A, Corrochano S, Sadiq O, Brown 
SD, Rubinsztein DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of Cambridge, Cambridge Institute 
for Medical Research, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK.

Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease 
caused by a polyglutamine expansion in huntingtin. There are no treatments that 
are known to slow the neurodegeneration caused by this mutation. Mutant 
huntingtin causes disease via a toxic gain-of-function mechanism and has the 
propensity to aggregate and form intraneuronal inclusions. One therapeutic 
approach for HD is to enhance the degradation of the mutant protein. We have 
shown that this can be achieved by upregulating autophagy, using the drug 
rapamycin. In order to find safer ways of inducing autophagy for clinical 
purposes, we previously screened United States Food and Drug 
Administration-approved drugs for their autophagy-stimulating potential. This 
screen suggested that rilmenidine, a well tolerated, safe, centrally acting 
anti-hypertensive drug, could induce autophagy in cell culture via a pathway 
that was independent of the mammalian target of rapamycin. Here we have shown 
that rilmenidine induces autophagy in mice and in primary neuronal culture. 
Rilmenidine administration attenuated the signs of disease in a HD mouse model 
and reduced levels of the mutant huntingtin fragment. As rilmenidine has a long 
safety record and is designed for chronic use, our data suggests that it should 
be considered for the treatment of HD and related conditions.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddq093
PMCID: PMC2865373
PMID: 20190273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
