1. J Mass Spectrom. 2010 Oct;45(10):1179-85. doi: 10.1002/jms.1809.

Development of a fast LC-MS/MS method for quantification of rilmenidine in human 
serum: elucidation of fragmentation pathways by HRMS.

Chytil L(1), Cvačka J, Marešová V, Štrauch B, Widimský J Jr, Štícha M, Slanař O.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, 1st Faculty of Medicine, 
Charles University in Prague, 121 08 Prague 2, Czech Republic. 
lukas.chytil@lf1.cuni.cz

Rilmenidine is an alpha 2 adrenoreceptor agonist used in the treatment of mild 
and moderate hypertension. In this study, a fast and accurate liquid 
chromatographic method with tandem mass spectrometric detection has been 
validated in order to assure quantification of rilmenidine in human serum. The 
fragmentation pathway of protonated rilmenidine was studied using 
high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS). This study compared selectivity, 
linearity, accuracy, precision, extraction efficiency, matrix effect and 
sensitivity using common liquid-liquid extraction (LLE) and solid-phase 
extraction (SPE) procedures. The limit of quantitation for both extraction 
techniques was 0.1 ng/ml. Several differences between the LLE and SPE have been 
observed in terms of linearity, accuracy, precision and matrix effect. 
Additionally, the advantages of SPE included less manual work load and increased 
recovery of rilmenidine in human serum to approximately 80% (LLE, 57%). The 
developed method involving SPE was found to be accurate (relative error (RE) < 
5%), reproducible (relative standard deviation, RSD < 7%), robust and suitable 
for quantitative analysis of rilmenidine in serum samples obtained from patients 
under antihypertensive treatment.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jms.1809
PMID: 20815039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
