1. Vnitr Lek. 2010 Dec;56(12):1210-6.

[Markers of endothelial function in the early stages of essential hypertension 
and the effect of antihypertensive therapy].

[Article in Slovak]

Remkov치 A(1), Remko M.

Author information:
(1)Centrum hemost치zy a tromb칩zy, HemoMedika Bratislava s.r.o., Bratislava, 
Slovensk치 republika. remkova@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: Endothelial abnormalities appear to play a role in the pathogenesis 
of atherosclerotic/atherothrombotic complications of hypertension. They may 
contribute to the increased risk and severity of target organ damage. The aim of 
the study was to investigate the endothelial markers in patients at the early 
stages of mild-to-moderate untreated hypertension with low-to-moderate added 
risk, and the effect of antihypertensive therapy by perindopril, telmisartan or 
rilmenidine on endothelial function.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: The measurements were carried out in 54 previously 
untreated hypertensive patients before and after one month of antihypertensive 
therapy by perindopril-arginine (5 mg once daily, n = 20), telmisartan (40 mg 
once daily, n = 16), rilmenidine (1 mg once daily, n = 18) or after placebo 
administration (n = 23). A population of 50 healthy normotensive subjects of 
similar sex, age and ethnic origin was also examined. Plasma thrombomodulin (TM) 
and von Willebrand factor (vWF) measurements were used as indicators of 
endothelial dysfunction.
RESULTS: In untreated hypertensive patients compared with a control group of 
healthy subjects a significant increase of plasma vWF (86.26 +/- 26.18 IU/dl 
against 69.14 +/- 18.74 IU/dl, P < 0.001) and TM (35.98 +/- 12.98 ng/ml against 
29.34 +/- 9.18 ng/ml, P < 0.01) was found. BP was reduced (P < 0.001) or 
normalized due to each therapy. No significant changes of endothelial markers 
after placebo administration were found. A decrease of plasma vWF antigen level 
after 1 month of therapy by perindopril (from 81.93 +/- 22.07 to 72.88 +/- 23.26 
IU/dl, P < 0.05) or rilmenidine (from 100.6 +/- 26.09 to 86.07 +/- 27.66 IU/dl, 
P < 0.05) was observed. No significant changes of vWF antigen levels were found 
after telmisartan therapy. We failed to find any changes of plasma TM due to any 
therapy.
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that antihypertensive treatment by 
perindopril or rilmenidine has a favourable affect on some endothelial markers.

PMID: 21261107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
