1. Horm Metab Res. 2011 Jun;43(7):458-63. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1275325. Epub 2011 
Apr 11.

A novel mechanism for decreasing plasma lipid level from imidazoline I-1 
receptor activation in high fat diet-fed mice.

Niu CS(1), Wu HT, Cheng KC, Lin KC, Chen CT, Cheng JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Tzu Chi College of Technology, Hualien City, Taiwan, 
ROC.

The imidazoline I-1 receptor (I-1 R) agonists are widely used to lower blood 
pressure, but their effects on hyperlipidemia are still obscure. The present 
study is aimed to evaluate the possible mechanism(s) of I-1 R in the regulation 
of lipid homeostasis. Farnesoid X receptor (FXR) plays an important role in 
blood lipid homeostasis; however, the role of FXR in rilmenidine-induced blood 
lipid lowering action is still unknown. Thus, we administered rilmenidine, a 
selective agonist of I-1 R, into high fat diet-fed (HFD) mice showing 
hypertriglyceridemia and hypercholesterolemia. Rilmenidine significantly 
ameliorated hyperlipidemia in HFD mice after 7 days of administration. 
Pretreatment with efaroxan, at a dose sufficient to inhibit I-1 R activation, 
blocked the effects of rilmenidine. Also, in cultured HepG2 cells, rilmenidine 
dose-dependently induced the expression of farnesoid X receptor (FXR). The 
rilmenidine-induced FXR expression and FXR-related genes were blocked by 
efaroxan. However, rilmenidine treatment did not affect the expression of 
enzymes related to β-oxidation. In conclusion, activation of I-1 R may activate 
FXR to lower plasma lipids, suggesting I-1 R as a new target for the treatment 
of hyperlipidemia.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1275325
PMID: 21484668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
