1. Cardiovasc Ther. 2012 Aug;30(4):199-208. doi:
10.1111/j.1755-5922.2011.00268.x.  Epub 2011 Apr 5.

Pharmacological properties of the central antihypertensive agent, moxonidine.

Edwards LP(1), Brown-Bryan TA, McLean L, Ernsberger P.

Author information:
(1)Center for Dental Research, Departments of Dental Educational Services, 
Physiology, and Pharmacology, Loma Linda University Schools of Dentistry and 
Medicine, Loma Linda, CA 92350, USA. lpedwards@llu.edu

The sympathetic nervous system plays a central role in the pathophysiology not 
only of hypertension and other cardiovascular diseases but also metabolic 
disorders including disturbances of glucose and lipid homeostasis. A centrally 
acting sympathetic agent is therefore attractive not only for lowering blood 
pressure, but also intervening with multiple disease processes. Older agents 
such as clonidine and guanabenz have numerous side effects, including sedation 
and dry mouth that limit their acceptability to patients. Moxonidine and the 
related agent rilmenidine have greatly reduced side effects, because they have 
reduced activity at the α(2) -adrenergic receptors that mediate these 
undesirable actions. Instead, moxonidine and rilmenidine act primarily through a 
novel cellular site, termed the I(1) -imidazoline receptor. The molecular 
biology of the I(1) -imidazoline receptor protein has recently been described, 
and the cell signaling pathways linked to this protein have been characterized. 
Moxonidine has unique effects on a number of cell types through this unusual 
cellular site of action. There are multiple therapeutic implications of these 
cellular actions, especially for metabolic syndrome and its associated 
derangements in glucose and lipid metabolism. Finally, the clinical trials that 
seemed to identify an unfavorable outcome in severe heart failure are dissected 
and critiqued. We conclude that moxonidine and future successors to this agent 
could be of great value in treating multiple chronic diseases.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-5922.2011.00268.x
PMID: 21884003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
