1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2012 Jan;385(1):51-6. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-011-0691-1. Epub 2011 Sep 25.

Rilmenidine improves hepatic steatosis through p38-dependent pathway to higher 
the expression of farnesoid X receptor.

Yang PS(1), Wu HT, Chung HH, Chen CT, Chi CW, Yeh CH, Cheng JT.

Author information:
(1)Department and Institute of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, National 
Yang-Ming University, Li-Nong Street, Taipei, Taiwan.

The nuclear receptor farnesoid X receptor (FXR) regulates pathways in lipid, 
glucose, and energy metabolism. Activation of FXR in mice significantly improved 
high-fat diet-induced hepatic steatosis. It has been reported that activation of 
imidazoline I-1 receptor by rilmenidine increases the expression of FXR in human 
hepatoma cell line, Hep G2 cell, to regulate the target genes relating to lipid 
metabolism; activation of FXR by rilmenidine exerts an antihyperlipidemic 
action. However, signals for this action of rilmenidine are still unknown. In 
the present study, hepatic steatosis induced in mice by high-fat diet was 
improved by rilmenidine after intraperitoneal injection at 1 mg/kg daily for 
12 weeks. Also, mediation of I-1 receptors was identified using the specific 
antagonist efaroxan. Moreover, rilmenidine decreased the oleic acid-induced 
lipid accumulation in Hep G2 cells. Otherwise, rilmenidine increased the 
phosphorylation of p38 to increase the expression of FXR. Deletion of calcium 
ions by BAPTA-AM reversed the rilmenidine-induced p38 phosphorylation. In 
conclusion, we suggest that rilmenidine activates I-1 receptor to increase 
intracellular calcium ions that may enhance the phosphorylation of p38 to higher 
the expression of FXR for improvement of hepatic steatosis in both animals and 
cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-011-0691-1
PMID: 21947253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
