1. Comb Chem High Throughput Screen. 2013 May;16(4):298-319. doi: 
10.2174/1386207311316040004.

Imidazoline-1 receptor ligands as apoptotic agents: pharmacophore modeling and 
virtual docking study.

Nikolic K(1), Veljkovic N, Gemovic B, Srdic-Rajic T, Agbaba D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Belgrade, Vojvode Stepe 450, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia. knikolic@pharmacy.bg.ac.rs

The group of imidazoline-1 receptors (I(1)-IR) agonists encompasses drugs are 
currently used in treatment of high blood pressure and hyperglycemia. The 
I(1)-IR protein structures have not been determined yet, but Nischarin protein 
that binds numerous imidazoline ligands inducing initiation of various 
cell-signaling cascades, including apoptosis, is identified as strong I(1)-IR 
candidate. In this study we examined apoptotic activity of rilmenidine (potent 
I(1)-IR agonist), moxonidine (moderate I(1)-IR agonist), and efaroxan (I(1)-IR 
partial agonist) on cancer cell line (K562) expressing Nischarin. The Nischarine 
domains mapping was performed by use of the Informational Spectrum Method (ISM). 
The 3D-Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationship (3D-QSAR) and virtual 
docking studies of 29 I(1)-IR ligands (agonists, partial agonists, and 
antagonists) were carried out on I(1)-IR receptors binding affinities. The 
3D-QSAR study defined 3D-pharmacophore models for I(1)-IR agonistic and I(1)-IR 
antagonistic activity and created regression model for prediction of I(1)-IR 
activity of novel compounds. The 3D-QSAR models were applied for design and 
evaluation of novel I(1)-IR agonists and I(1)-IR antagonists. The most promising 
I(1)-IR ligands with enhanced activities than parent compounds were proposed for 
synthesis. The results of 3D-QSAR, ISM, and virtual docking studies were in 
perfect agreement and allowed precise definition of binding mode of I(1)-IR 
agonists (Arg 758, Arg 866, Val 981, and Glu 1057) and significantly different 
binding modes of I(1)-IR antagonists or partial I(1)-IR agonists. The performed 
theoretical study provides reliable system for evaluation of I(1)-IR agonistic 
and I(1)-IR antagonistic activity of novel I(1)-IR ligands, as drug candidates 
with anticancer activities.

DOI: 10.2174/1386207311316040004
PMID: 23360165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
