1. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1990 May 9;1024(1):173-8. doi: 
10.1016/0005-2736(90)90221-9.

Effect of imidazolines on Na+ transport and intracellular pH in renal proximal 
tubule cells.

Bidet M(1), Poujeol P, Parini A.

Author information:
(1)Département de Biologie, Centre d'Etudes Nucléaires de Saclay, 
Gif-sur-Yvette, France.

Recently, we characterized an imidazoline-guanidinium receptive site (IGRS) in 
the renal proximal tubule of rabbit kidney. Although recognized by a series of 
imidazoline and guanidinium alpha-2 adrenergic compounds, IGRS is insensitive to 
catecholamines and can be physically separated from alpha-2 adrenergic receptors 
after solubilization. In the present study, we investigated the effect of 
imidazoline derivatives on 22Na+ uptake and intracellular pH in isolated cells 
from rabbit renal proximal tubule. After 5 min of preincubation, idazoxan 
inhibited the total 22Na+ influx (-30%) in a dose-dependent manner, with a 
maximum effect at 10(-5) M. The effect of idazoxan was not competitive as shown 
by the decrease of the maximal velocity of 22Na+ entry (control: 3.80 +/- 0.42; 
idazoxan 10(-5) M: 3.23 +/- 0.33 nmol/30 s per mg protein, P less than 0.01). A 
series of imidazoline derivatives inhibited 22Na+ entry with an order of potency 
similar to that previously found for inhibition of [3H]idazoxan binding to IGRS 
(cirazoline greater than idazoxan greater than UK 14304 greater than rilmenidine 
much greater than cimetidine). The inhibition of 22Na+ uptake by these compounds 
does not appear to be related to interaction with alpha-adrenergic receptors 
since it was observed in the presence of saturating concentrations of the 
adrenergic antagonists rauwolscine (alpha-2) or prazosin (alpha-1). When tested 
on the regulation of intracellular pH by fluorimetric techniques, 10(-5) M 
cirazoline or idazoxan inhibited by 20% the velocity of the sodium-dependent H+ 
efflux in acidified cells (P less than 0.02). The concomitant inhibition of 
22Na+ entry and of cell realkalinization suggests that imidazoline derivatives 
inhibit Na+/H(+)-exchanger. This effect could be mediated via the renal IGRS and 
intracellular second messengers that are not yet known.

DOI: 10.1016/0005-2736(90)90221-9
PMID: 2337612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
