1. Horm Metab Res. 2013 Jul;45(7):485-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1333765. Epub 2013
Feb  21.

Characterization of the specificity of imidazoline I-1 receptor antibody for 
subtype of imidazoline receptors in vitro.

Wang LY(1), Ku PM, Chen SH, Chen LJ, Yu YM, Cheng JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Department of Medical Research, Chi-Mei Medical 
Center, Yong Kang, Tainan City, Taiwan.

Specific antibodies are essential in the study of receptor protein. Gene 
matching shows that Nischarin (NISCH) is a mouse homologue of human imidazoline 
receptor antisera-selective (IRAS) protein, a viable candidate for imidazoline 
I-1 receptor. However, selectivity of this antibody against imidazoline I-2 or 
imidazoline I-3 receptors remained obscure. At first, an intracerebroventricular 
(ICV) injection of anti-NISCH antibody blocked the blood pressure lowering 
action of rilmenidine (I-1 receptor agonist) in spontaneous hypertensive rat 
(SHR). However, the same injection of anti-NISCH antibody showed no effect in 
SHR treated with clonidine (α2 agonist). In order to clarify the selectivity of 
anti-NISCH antibody for each subtype of imidazoline receptors, this anti-NISCH 
antibody was subjected to the lysate of organs isolated from Wistar rats 
including cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum, and brain stem as central nervous 
tissues, and heart, liver, pancreas, skeletal muscle, kidney, prostate, and 
bladder as peripheral tissues. The results show that anti-NISCH antibody 
positively reacted with all tissues including heart, pancreas, skeletal muscle, 
kidney and bladder by Western blot analysis. Also, the blotting spots for 
anti-NISCH antibody show a concentration-dependent manner. Moreover, anti-NISCH 
antibody blocked the action of glucose uptake induced by 2-BFI (I-2 receptor 
agonist) in L6 cells. Taken together, the obtained data suggest that anti-NISCH 
antibody can be used not only for imidazoline I-1 receptor but also for I-2 and 
I-3 subtypes in immunoassays.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1333765
PMID: 23430592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
