1. Eur J Pharmacol. 2013 Apr 5;705(1-3):61-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2013.02.043. 
Epub 2013 Mar 13.

Imidazoline versus alpha₂-adrenoceptors in the control of gastric motility in 
mice.

Zádori ZS(1), Fehér Á, Al-Khrasani M, Lackó E, Tóth VE, Brancati SB, Hein L, 
Mátyus P, Gyires K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, Faculty of Medicine, 
Semmelweis University, Nagyvárad tér 4, 1089 Budapest, Hungary.

Several lines of evidence suggest that imidazoline receptors mediate various 
physiological processes. It is rather difficult, however, to distinguish the 
imidazoline receptor-mediated effects from the alpha₂-adrenoceptor-mediated ones 
due to the reasonable affinity of most imidazoline ligands for the 
alpha₂-adrenoceptors. In the present study the effects of different imidazoline 
ligands were tested on the electrical field stimulation (EFS)-induced gastric 
contractions in wild-type (WT), alpha₂A-, alpha₂B- and alpha₂C-adrenoceptor 
knockout (KO) mice in order to analyze, whether imidazoline I₁ and I₂ receptors 
take part in the regulation of gastric motor activity. Clonidine, moxonidine and 
rilmenidine inhibited the EFS-induced gastric contractions in a concentration 
dependent manner in WT, alpha₂B- and alpha₂C-adrenoceptor KO mice, whereas they 
had no or only weak effect in alpha₂A-adrenoceptor KO mice. Their effects in WT 
mice were inhibited by idazoxan and BRL 44408, but not by ARC 239, AGN 192403 
and BU 224. The endogenous imidazoline receptor ligand agmatine failed to affect 
the EFS-induced contractions, while harmane (an other endogenous imidazoline 
receptor ligand) and 2-BFI (a selective imidazoline I2 receptor agonist) exerted 
a slight effect in both WT and alpha2A-adrenoceptor KO mice, but this was not 
reversible by idazoxan, AGN 192403 and BU 224. It can be concluded, that the 
inhibitory effect of the tested imidazoline compounds on cholinergic gastric 
contractions is mediated mainly by alpha₂A-adrenoceptors. Although at higher 
concentrations other receptors may also contribute to their effects, the lack of 
inhibition by AGN 192403 and BU 224 suggests that these are not imidazoline I₁ 
and I₂ receptors.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2013.02.043
PMID: 23499689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
