1. Br J Pharmacol. 1990 Jul;100(3):600-4. doi:
10.1111/j.1476-5381.1990.tb15853.x.

Evidence for the involvement of imidazoline receptors in the central hypotensive 
effect of rilmenidine in the rabbit.

Feldman J(1), Tibiriça E, Bricca G, Dontenwill M, Belcourt A, Bousquet P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Pharmacologie Cardiovasculaire et Rénale, CNRS URA 589, 
Faculté de Médecine, Université Louis Pasteur, Strasbourg, France.

1. Rilmenidine has recently been introduced as a new centrally-acting 
antihypertensive agent. We examined its cardiovascular effects after 
intracerebral injection to anaesthetized rabbits. Cumulative doses of 
rilmenidine injected intracisternally (1 to 300 micrograms kg-1) led to 
dose-dependent decreases in arterial blood pressure and heart rate. The 
effective doses of rilmenidine were lower when injected centrally than when 
injected intravenously. 2. Pretreatment with the same dose of yohimbine or 
idazoxan shifted the rilmenidine dose-response curves for its hypotensive and 
bradycardic effects to the right. Idazoxan, which has an imidazoline structure, 
proved to be a more active antagonist than yohimbine of rilmenidine 
centrally-mediated cardiovascular effects. 3. The dose-response curve for the 
central hypotensive effect of rilmenidine was also shifted to the right after 
pretreatment with a bovine brain extract. This extract contains the endogenous 
ligand of the imidazoline-preferring receptors which is not a catecholamine. 4. 
Rilmenidine, like clonidine, proved to be active when micro-injected into the 
rabbit nucleus reticularis lateralis region. 5. In conclusion, rilmenidine 
exhibited in the rabbit a central hypotensive effect which originated in the 
same area as where clonidine acts. Specific imidazoline-preferring receptors 
appear to be involved in this hypotensive effect.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1990.tb15853.x
PMCID: PMC1917804
PMID: 2390682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
