1. Arch Int Physiol Biochim. 1986 Jun;94(2):99-106. doi:
10.3109/13813458609071407.

Influence of the alpha-2 agonist oxaminozoline (S3341) on firing rate of central 
noradrenergic and serotonergic neurons in the rat. Comparison with clonidine.

Dresse A, Scuv√©e-Moreau J.

The firing rate of central locus coeruleus (LC) noradrenergic neurons and dorsal 
raphe (DR) serotonergic neurons was recorded in rats anaesthetized with chloral 
hydrate. The iontophoretic application or the i.v. perfusion of S3341, a new 
antihypertensive drug or clonidine decreased the frequency of discharge of LC 
neurons. Depending on the mode of administration clonidine was 54-63 times more 
potent than S3341. The selectivity of action of both drugs on alpha-2 vs. 
alpha-1 adrenoceptors was confirmed using yohimbine and prazosin: yohimbine 
completely blocked the inhibitory effect of S3341 or clonidine while prazosin 
did not prevent this effect. S3341 and clonidine regularly reduced the firing 
rate of DR neurons during i.v. perfusion but not during iontophoretic 
application. From these experiments is it concluded that S3341 and clonidine 
have a direct inhibitory effect on LC neurons via stimulation of alpha-2 
autoreceptors and that both drugs have an indirect inhibitory effect on DR 
neurons, probably via impairment of noradrenergic transmission. Clinical studies 
show that S3341 induces much less sedative side effects than clonidine. In view 
of the great difference in the potency of these drugs to inhibit the firing rate 
of monoaminergic neurons which are known to be involved in sleep mechanisms, it 
is possible that the electrophysiological effects reported here relate to the 
sedative effects of these drugs.

DOI: 10.3109/13813458609071407
PMID: 2430542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
