1. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1987 Jun;9(6):711-8. doi: 
10.1097/00005344-198706000-00012.

Rapid eye movement sleep and the associated cardiovascular changes during and 
after continuous 10-day infusion of clonidine in normotensive rats: comparison 
with lofexidine and S3341.

Lewis SJ, Jarrott B, Doyle AE.

The centrally acting alpha-adrenoceptor agonists clonidine, lofexidine, and 
S3341 vary in their selectivity for the alpha 2-adrenoceptor subtype (S3341 
greater than clonidine greater than lofexidine). The aim of this study was to 
examine the frequency and duration of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep episodes, 
and the cardiovascular changes associated with these episodes, during and after 
the continuous (10-day) infusion of saline (0.9% wt/vol), clonidine (10 
micrograms/kg/h), lofexidine (10 micrograms/kg/h), or S3341 (50 or 100 
micrograms/kg/h) in unrestrained, chronically instrumented rats. During a 
typical 24-h period, the saline infusion animals (n = 4) had 46 +/- 3 REM sleep 
episodes of 2.4 +/- 0.1 min duration. The majority of these episodes were 
associated with relatively minor phasic and tonic changes in arterial blood 
pressure and heart rate. During infusion, the three drugs markedly reduced the 
cardiovascular and behavioural signs of REM sleep. On cessation of the clonidine 
and lofexidine infusions, rebound increases (i.e., to values greater than 
controls) in the frequency and duration of REM sleep episodes were observed. 
These episodes were associated with markedly exaggerated fluctuations in 
arterial blood pressure and heart rate. The REM sleep rebound and associated 
cardiovascular responses were greater during the post-lofexidine infusion phase. 
A relatively minor rebound increase in total REM sleep time was observed after 
cessation of the 100-micrograms/kg/h, but not the 50-micrograms/kg/h, infusion 
rate of S3341. The cardiovascular responses during the REM sleep episodes were 
mildly exaggerated after cessation of the higher infusion rate of 
S3341.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-198706000-00012
PMID: 2442539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
