1. Am J Med. 1989 Sep 18;87(3C):57S-62S. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)90507-x.

Antihypertensive drugs and baroreflex sensitivity. Effects of rilmenidine.

Harron DW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Therapeutics and Pharmacology, Queen's University of Belfast, 
Northern Ireland.

Rilmenidine 1 and 2 mg administered orally (weekly intervals, double-blind, 
randomized cross-over, placebo-controlled) to six healthy subjects, 
dose-dependently reduced (p less than 0.05) resting systolic blood pressure 
(107.0 +/- 5.6, 99.2 +/- 4.5 mmHg) compared with placebo (117.3 +/- 5.2 mmHg). 
Diastolic blood pressure was also reduced (p less than 0.05), and no change 
occurred in heart rate or forearm blood flow. Rilmenidine increased (p = 0.05) 
baroreflex sensitivity when blood pressure was increased with phenylephrine: no 
change in baroreflex sensitivity occurred during reduction in blood pressure 
with glyceryl trinitrate. Rilmenidine given at 1- and 2-mg doses reduced (p less 
than 0.05) systolic blood pressure during "lying to standing," a test of 
autonomic function (76.3 +/- 9.8, 56.8 +/- 4.5 mmHg), versus results with 
placebo (95.2 +/- 10.5 mmHg); the R-R intervals associated with these blood 
pressure reductions were not different (571 +/- 12, 609 +/- 19 msec), versus 
results with placebo (541 +/- 28 msec). During "sustained handgrip," rilmenidine 
given at 1- and 2-mg doses reduced (p less than 0.05) systolic blood pressure 
(146.8 +/- 6.2, 142.3 +/- 7.0 mmHg), versus results with placebo (157.3 +/- 7.5 
mmHg); the corresponding R-R intervals were 705 +/- 45 and 675 +/- 49 msec, not 
different from those with placebo (695 +/- 49 msec). Similar results occurred 
with other tests of autonomic function ("deep breathing" and "three-minute 
standing"). In conclusion, rilmenidine increases baroreflex sensitivity to 
increases in blood pressure with phenylephrine; during tests of autonomic 
function, the lower blood pressures that occur with rilmenidine are associated 
with correspondingly greater R-R intervals; this may also indicate enhanced 
baroreflex sensitivity.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)90507-x
PMID: 2506754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
