1. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1989 Dec;82 Spec No 5:47-51.

[Effects of rilmenidine on arterial parameters in essential arterial 
hypertension].

[Article in French]

Pannier B(1), Safar M.

Author information:
(1)HÃ´pital Broussais, Paris.

Rilmenidine (RIL) is a new antihypertensive agent which lowers sympathetic tone, 
so reducing systemic peripheral resistance. The effects of a single dose of RIL 
(1 mg) on arterial function were the object of a preliminary randomised 
double-blind versus placebo trial in 14 patients with hypertension after a one 
month washout period on placebo. The following parameters were recorded before 
(T0) and 4 hours after administration (T4): blood pressure, heart rate 
(automatic recordings), diameter of the humeral artery (D), mean blood flow 
velocity (Vm) by an 8 MHz duplex pulsed Doppler system, local forearm 
resistances (LR = mean BP/D2 Vm/4), carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (PWV) 
and humeral arterial wall tension (mean BP.D/2). The two groups were compared by 
statistical analysis of variance with two crossed factors. RIL significantly 
lowered systolic BP (p less than 0.02), diastolic BP (p less than 0.05) and mean 
BP (p less than 0.01) without changing the heart rate. The D and PWV were 
unchanged in the RIL group. There was a significant improvement in arterial wall 
tension (-6.7% vs + 1.1%; p = 0.02) associated with a tendency to increase the 
PWV (45% vs 4%; p = 0.097) and to decrease LR (46% vs 10%; p = 0.062) although 
those changes were not statistically significant compared with those observed 
with placebo. These initial results indicate that the hypotensive effect of RIL 
is accompanied by a reduction in humeral arterial wall tension which occurs 
without any change in arterial diameter. This also reflects a change in the 
pressure-volume relationship with RIL.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2517009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
