1. Eur J Pharm Sci. 2015 Feb 20;68:94-105. doi: 10.1016/j.ejps.2014.12.014. Epub 
2014 Dec 24.

Prediction of blood-brain barrier permeation of α-adrenergic and imidazoline 
receptor ligands using PAMPA technique and quantitative-structure permeability 
relationship analysis.

Vucicevic J(1), Nikolic K(2), Dobričić V(2), Agbaba D(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Belgrade, Vojvode Stepe 450, PO Box 146, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia. Electronic 
address: jelicav@pharmacy.bg.ac.rs.
(2)Institute of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Belgrade, Vojvode Stepe 450, PO Box 146, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia.

Imidazoline receptor ligands are a numerous family of biologically active 
compounds known to produce central hypotensive effect by interaction with both 
α2-adrenoreceptors (α2-AR) and imidazoline receptors (IRs). Recent hypotheses 
connect those ligands with several neurological disorders. Therefore some IRs 
ligands are examined as novel centrally acting antihypertensives and drug 
candidates for treatment of various neurological diseases. Effective Blood-Brain 
Barrier (BBB) permeability (P(e)) of 18 IRs/α-ARs ligands and 22 Central Nervous 
System (CNS) drugs was experimentally determined using Parallel Artificial 
Membrane Permeability Assay (PAMPA) and studied by the 
Quantitative-Structure-Permeability Relationship (QSPR) methodology. The 
dominant molecules/cations species of compounds have been calculated at pH = 
7.4. The analyzed ligands were optimized using Density Functional Theory 
(B3LYP/6-31G(d,p)) included in ChemBio3D Ultra 13.0 program and molecule 
descriptors for optimized compounds were calculated using ChemBio3D Ultra 13.0, 
Dragon 6.0 and ADMET predictor 6.5 software. Effective permeability of compounds 
was used as dependent variable (Y), while calculated molecular parametres were 
used as independent variables (X) in the QSPR study. SIMCA P+ 12.0 was used for 
Partial Least Square (PLS) analysis, while the stepwise Multiple Linear 
Regression (MLR) and Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) modeling were performed 
using STASTICA Neural Networks 4.0. Predictive potential of the formed models 
was confirmed by Leave-One-Out Cross- and external-validation and the most 
reliable models were selected. The descriptors that are important for model 
building are identified as well as their influence on BBB permeability. Results 
of the QSPR studies could be used as time and cost efficient screening tools for 
evaluation of BBB permeation of novel α-adrenergic/imidazoline receptor ligands, 
as promising drug candidates for treatment of hypertension or neurological 
diseases.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejps.2014.12.014
PMID: 25542610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
