1. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1989 Dec;82 Spec No 5:11-4.

[From alpha 2-adrenergic to endazoline receptors].

[Article in French]

Bousquet P(1), Feldman J, Tibirica E, Bricca G, Molines A, Dontenwill M, 
Belcourt A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de pharmacologie cardio-vasculaire et rénale, CNRS UA 589, 
faculté de médecine, université Louis-Pasteur, Strasbourg, France.

Studies of the central hypotensive mode of action of the imidazolines of which 
clonidine is the leading molecule suggest the presence of non-catecholamine 
binding sites called imidazoline receptors. Our group showed that neither the 
endogenic ligand of alpha-adrenergic receptors, noradrenaline, nor any other 
tested catecholamine or phenylethylamine have hypotensive effects at the site of 
action of all imidazolines, the lateral reticular nucleus of the brainstem. In 
addition, a population of membrane binding sites which take up labelled 
clonidine and which are insensitive to noradrenaline have been demonstrated in 
the lateral reticular nucleus. An endogenic non-catecholamine substance whose 
structure is currently under identification and which is recognised by these 
receptors has been isolated from the brain tissues of various mammals. All this 
experimental evidence supports the hypothesis that the hypotensive effects of 
imidazoline-like substances are related to their action on brainstem receptors 
specific to this endogenic ligand which we propose to call endazoline. 
Rilmenidine, which has a chemical structure similar to that of the imidazolines, 
has a higher relative selectivity for the imidazoline binding sites than the 
reference molecule (clonidine). A central antihypertensive agent without the 
classical sedative effects associated with this class of drug could result. A 
study of the structure-activity relationship is needed to confirm this 
hypothesis.

PMID: 2560909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
