1. Br J Pharmacol. 1989 Mar;96(3):539-46. doi:
10.1111/j.1476-5381.1989.tb11851.x.

Alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists enhance responses to certain other vasoconstrictor 
agonists in the rat tail artery.

Xiao XH(1), Rand MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

1. The effects of the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists clonidine, rilmenidine, TL99 
and UK14304 on the vasoconstrictor response to sympathetic nerve stimulation and 
on the concentration-response curves to noradrenaline and phenylephrine were 
compared in two isolated, perfused vascular tissues: the rat tail artery (which 
has both postjunctional alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors), and the rabbit ear 
artery (in which only alpha 1-adrenoceptors are present postjunctionally). 2. In 
the rabbit ear artery, the first observable effect of alpha 2-adrenoceptor 
agonists was inhibition of vasoconstrictor responses to sympathetic nerve 
stimulation. This occurred with concentrations of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor 
agonists which were far below those producing vasoconstriction. Responses to 
noradrenaline were not affected. 3. In contrast, in the rat isolated perfused 
tail artery, alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists, in concentrations that produced no 
other observable effects, enhanced the vasoconstrictor responses to sympathetic 
nerve stimulation and to noradrenaline. Much higher concentrations of alpha 
2-adrenoceptor agonists produced vasoconstriction in most preparations and only 
then reduced the response to sympathetic nerve stimulation. The enhancing effect 
of alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists was blocked by idazoxan, but not by prazosin. 
4. Vasoconstrictor responses in the rat tail artery to the relatively selective 
alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine were enhanced by alpha 2-adrenoceptor 
agonists. The enhancement of the response to phenylephrine was greater than that 
to the mixed alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist noradrenaline. 5. 
Vasoconstrictor responses in the rat tail artery to vasopressin, ATP and KCl, 
like those to alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonists, were enhanced by alpha 
2-adrenoceptor agonists.2+owever, vasoconstrictor responses to

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1989.tb11851.x
PMCID: PMC1854376
PMID: 2566348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
