1. Am J Med. 1989 Sep 18;87(3C):34S-37S. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)90503-2.

Bronchial effects of alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists and of other antihypertensive 
agents in asthma.

Dinh Xuan AT(1), Lockhart A.

Author information:
(1)Physiology Laboratory, Cochin Port-Royal School of Medicine, Cochin Hospital, 
Paris, France.

The respective prevalence of hypertension and asthma is sufficient for their 
combined existence to be far from rare. The effects of certain antihypertensive 
drugs, e.g., alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists, on the bronchi may be either harmful 
or beneficial. When inhaled, alpha 2-agonists reduce the immediate bronchial 
response to allergens, whereas when ingested they aggravate the bronchial 
response to histamine and all the more so when their effect on the central 
nervous system is greater. Therefore, there has been much interest in agents 
such as the new oxazoline derivative, rilmenidine, which has less central 
effects than clonidine, an imidazoline compound of reference. Calcium 
antagonists inhibit smooth muscle contraction and release of mast cell 
inflammatory mediators. In asthmatic subjects, their short-term administration 
leads to a modest improvement in spontaneous bronchial obstruction, has only a 
partial protective action against various nonspecific or allergenic stimuli, and 
slightly reinforces the beneficial effect of beta 2-agonists. Beta-adrenoceptor 
antagonists aggravate bronchial obstruction and nonspecific bronchial 
hyperreactivity in asthmatic subjects. These harmful effects are dose-dependent, 
have even been reported after the administration of eyedrops, and are common to 
all beta-blockers. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors increase bronchial 
hyperreactivity in patients who develop cough during treatment and may, in 
certain cases, worsen or even induce asthma, probably by opposing inactivation 
by hydrolysis of tachykinins and of bradykinins.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)90503-2
PMID: 2571293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
