1. Am J Med. 1989 Sep 18;87(3C):67S-72S. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)90509-3.

Rilmenidine and vigilance. Review of clinical studies.

Mahieux F(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinique des Maladies du Systéme Nerveux, Hôpital Tenon, Paris, France.

In this study, the possible effects of rilmenidine on vigilance are evaluated. 
Sedation is the most disturbing side effect of alpha 2-agonists, especially 
during the first weeks of treatment. The level of vigilance was first determined 
by assessing drowsiness using visual analogue scales and/or by several 
psychometric tests in four pharmacoclinical studies in healthy subjects or in 
hypertensive patients: three studies with single administration of rilmenidine 
(0.5 to 3.0 mg) and one study with repeated administration for three days. These 
studies were double-blind, Latin-square designed, and controlled versus placebo 
(in all studies) and versus clonidine (in three studies). Analysis of these 
results illustrated that after short-term and repeated administration: (1) the 
effects on vigilance observed with rilmenidine 1 mg did not differ statistically 
from data observed with placebo; and (2) sedative effects observed with 
clonidine were significantly greater than with rilmenidine, at equihypotensive 
doses. Daytime drowsiness was systematically assessed and graded by inciting 
questioning at each visit in five clinical studies. Ambulatory hypertensive 
patients were treated with rilmenidine (1 mg per day or 1 mg twice a day). These 
studies were controlled versus placebo (one study for two weeks, 120 patients; 
and one study for one month, 126 patients), hydrochlorothiazide (six weeks, 56 
patients), clonidine (six weeks, 333 patients), and methyldopa (three months, 
157 patients). The results showed that: (1) drowsiness observed with rilmenidine 
did not differ statistically from that observed with placebo or diuretic; and 
(2) drowsiness occurred less frequently with rilmenidine than with reference 
alpha 2-agonists at equihypotensive doses. In conclusion, these results confirm 
in current clinical use the dissociation already observed in laboratory animals 
between the antihypertensive effects and the sedative effects and may 
distinguish rilmenidine among alpha 2-agonists.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)90509-3
PMID: 2571296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
