1. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1989 Jul;82(7):1135-7.

[Selectivity of alpha 2-adrenergic agonists for the imidazoline-guanidine and 
alpha 2-adrenergic receptors].

[Article in French]

Lachaud V(1), Coupry I, Podevin RA, Koenig E, Parini A.

Author information:
(1)U 7 INSERM/UA 318 CNRS, département de pharmacologie, hôpital Necker, Paris.

Imidazolines have been proposed as highly selective drugs for alpha 2-adrenergic 
receptors. However, we have recently showed that the imidazoline ligand 3H-RX 
781094 (idazoxan) binds to both alpha 2-receptors and imidazoline guanidinium 
receptive substance (IGRS) in rabbit renal proximal tubule. Binding of 3H-RX 
781094 to the purified basolateral membranes (15-fold enriched in Na-KATPase 
activity) was rapid (t 1/2 = 5 mn.) reversible (t 1/2) = 4 mn.), saturable and 
of high affinity. Scatchard analysis of equilibrium binding data showed that 
3H-RX 781094 labels 566 +/- 118 fmol/mg of proteins of binding sites with an 
apparent dissociation constant (Kd) of 1.45 +/- 0.14 nM. On the other hand, the 
non imidazoline ligand 3H-rauwolscine binds only to the alpha 2-adrenergic 
receptors with a maximal density of 155 +/- 28 fmol/mg of protein and a Kd of 
11.5 +/- 1.5 nM. In order to define the relative affinity of the 
alpha-2-agonists, clonidine, rilmenidine and guanfacine for the two classes of 
receptors, we performed competition studies of the alpha 2-antagonists 3H-RX 
781094 (imidazoline) and 3H-rauwolscine (non imidazoline) binding to basolateral 
membranes from rabbit proximal tubule. The order of potency for inhibition of 
the two radioligand binding was rilmenidine greater than clonidine greater than 
guanfacine for 3H-RX 781094 and clonidine greater than guanfacine greater than 
rilmenidine for 3H-rauwolscine. Therefore, rilmenidine displayed a higher 
affinity for IGRS than for alpha 2 adrenergic receptors; on the other hand, 
clonidine and guanfacine preferentially interact with alpha 2 
receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2573323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
