1. Arch Int Pharmacodyn Ther. 1989 Jul-Aug;300:114-39.

Interaction of rilmenidine and clonidine with pre- and postjunctional 
alpha-adrenoceptors in rat and rabbit blood vessels and in rat kidneys.

Verbeuren TJ(1), Koenig-BÃ©rard E, Jordaens FH, Van Hoydonck AE, Verrelst J, 
Zonnekeyn LL, Herman AG.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Recherches Servier, Suresnes, France.

In several blood vessels, the influence of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists 
rilmenidine and clonidine was compared. In aortas of rat and rabbit and in the 
rabbit pulmonary artery, both compounds evoked contractions due to stimulation 
of postjunctional alpha 1-adrenoceptors. In the aorta of the rat, but not in 
that of the rabbit, removal of the endothelium markedly enhanced the 
contractions to rilmenidine and clonidine. At the alpha 1-adrenoceptors, 
clonidine was about 135 times more potent than rilmenidine. The activity of both 
substances at post- and prejunctional alpha 2-adrenoceptors was compared in the 
rabbit saphenous vein. Rilmenidine and clonidine evoked contractions of the vein 
by stimulating postjunctional alpha 2-adrenoceptors and decreased the 
stimulation-induced overflow of [3H]-noradrenaline by activating the 
prejunctional alpha 2-adrenoceptors. At the post- and prejunctional alpha 
2-adrenoceptors, clonidine was about 30 times more potent than rilmenidine. 
These data illustrate that, although less potent than clonidine, rilmenidine is 
5 times more specific for the alpha 2-adrenoceptors. In the isolated perfused 
rat kidney, rilmenidine and clonidine antagonized the vasoconstrictions induced 
by noradrenaline. Although the exact mechanism of this inhibitory response 
remains to be elucidated, our results indicate that rilmenidine may possess some 
interesting properties at the level of the renal circulation.

PMID: 2575885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
