1. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 1989 Nov;16(11):837-48. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1681.1989.tb01523.x.

Cardiovascular effects of rilmenidine, a new alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist, and 
clonidine in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Sannajust F(1), Julien C, Barrès C, Cerutti C, Koenig-Bérard E, Sassard J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Clinical Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Lyon, France.

1. The acute and chronic effects of rilmenidine, a partial agonist of alpha 1- 
and alpha 2-adrenoceptors with antihypertensive properties, were compared to 
those of clonidine on blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR) and the urinary 
excretion of catecholamines, which was used as an index of sympathetic activity. 
2. As these drugs are known to interfere centrally and peripherally with the 
sympathetic nervous system, long-term arterial blood pressure recordings in 
freely moving unstressed adult spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were used. 
3. Acute i.v. administrations of rilmenidine (0.3 mg/kg at 1200 h, 1.2 mg/kg at 
1700 and 2200 h) and clonidine (12 micrograms/kg at 1200 h, 50 micrograms/kg at 
1700 and 2200 h) induced short-lasting increases in BP associated with a 
decrease in HR, which were followed by prolonged, dose-dependent decreases in BP 
without bradycardia. The pressor effect was less marked and the associated 
bradycardia was more marked in active SHR with physiologically high sympathetic 
activity than in resting SHR. 4. A 12-day oral treatment with rilmenidine (6.0 
mg/kg daily) or clonidine (150 micrograms/kg daily) induced moderate decreases 
in BP without change in HR. Rilmenidine but not clonidine decreased 
normetanephrine (NMN) excretion in active but not in resting SHR. 5. Finally, 
during the 24 h following the cessation of the treatments, BP returned to 
normal, without significantly exceeding that of untreated controls. However, 
upswings in BP or HR were observed, more markedly and frequently after clonidine 
than after rilmenidine. 6. In conclusion the effects of alpha 2-adrenoceptor 
agonists appear to be influenced by the pre-existing sympathetic tone. The 
general agreement between these data and those observed in patients demonstrates 
that the use of conscious unstressed animals is of value to determine the 
cardiovascular effects of drugs which act on the sympathetic nervous system.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1681.1989.tb01523.x
PMID: 2575474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
