1. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1989 Dec;82 Spec No 5:15-8.

[Interaction of rilmenidine with renal imidazoline-guanidine sites].

[Article in French]

Lachaud V(1), Bidet M, Coupry I, Podevin RA, Poujeol P, Parini A.

Author information:
(1)Unité 7 INSERM/UA 318 CNRS, département de pharmacologie, hôpital Necker, 
Paris.

Several studies have suggested that clonidine, guanfacine and rilmenidine 
decrease systemic blood pressure by stimulating central alpha 2-adrenergic 
receptors. However, we have shown that these molecules interact not only with 
alpha 2-adrenergic but also a new type of "non catecholamine" receptor in rabbit 
and human renal proximal tubules. This receptor, which we have called the 
imidazoline-guanidium receptor site (IGRS) seems to be pharmacologically, 
biochemically and fractionally distinct from alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. In 
order to determine the relative affinity of rilmenidine for these two types of 
receptor, we studied its capacity to inhibit the liaison of (H3)-idazoxan, a 
ligand with a high affinity for the IGRS, and of (H3)-rauwolscine, a ligand 
selective for alpha 2-adrenergic receptors in the rabbit kidney. The results 
based on the apparent constants of inhibition (Ki) of the two radioligands [231 
+/- 34 nM for (H3)-idazoxan and 2440 +/- 322 nM for (H3)-rauwolscine] showed 
that the selectivity of rilmenidine was 10 times greater for IGRS than for alpha 
2-adrenergic receptors. This preferential activity on IGRS was confirmed by 
studies of the influx of Na22 into isolated renal proximal tubule cells of the 
rabbit. They showed that rilmenidine, in contrast to catecholamines, inhibited 
the transport of Na22 into the renal cells. In conclusion, the data from our 
studies shows that rilmenidine interacts with renal IGRS and inhibits cellular 
transport of sodium by a mechanism other than the stimulation of alpha 
2-adrenergic receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2576516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
