1. J Exp Med. 2015 Jun 29;212(7):979-90. doi: 10.1084/jem.20150956. Epub 2015 Jun
 22.

Therapeutic targeting of autophagy in neurodegenerative and infectious diseases.

Rubinsztein DC(1), Bento CF(2), Deretic V(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, 
University of Cambridge School of Clinical Medicine, Cambridge CB2 OSP, England, 
UK dcr1000@cam.ac.uk vderetic@salud.unm.edu.
(2)Department of Medical Genetics, Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, 
University of Cambridge School of Clinical Medicine, Cambridge CB2 OSP, England, 
UK.
(3)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology and Department of 
Neurology, University of New Mexico Health Sciences Center, Albuquerque, NM 
87131 Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology and Department of 
Neurology, University of New Mexico Health Sciences Center, Albuquerque, NM 
87131 dcr1000@cam.ac.uk vderetic@salud.unm.edu.

Autophagy is a conserved process that uses double-membrane vesicles to deliver 
cytoplasmic contents to lysosomes for degradation. Although autophagy may impact 
many facets of human biology and disease, in this review we focus on the ability 
of autophagy to protect against certain neurodegenerative and infectious 
diseases. Autophagy enhances the clearance of toxic, cytoplasmic, 
aggregate-prone proteins and infectious agents. The beneficial roles of 
autophagy can now be extended to supporting cell survival and regulating 
inflammation. Autophagic control of inflammation is one area where autophagy may 
have similar benefits for both infectious and neurodegenerative diseases beyond 
direct removal of the pathogenic agents. Preclinical data supporting the 
potential therapeutic utility of autophagy modulation in such conditions is 
accumulating.

Â© 2015 Rubinsztein et al.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.20150956
PMCID: PMC4493419
PMID: 26101267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
