1. Med Hypotheses. 2016 Feb;87:48-60. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2015.12.018. Epub 2015 
Dec 23.

Constructing the ecstasy of MDMA from its component mental organs: Proposing the 
primer/probe method.

Ray TS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Oklahoma, Norman, OK 73069, United 
States. Electronic address: tray@ou.edu.

The drug MDMA, commonly known as ecstasy, produces a specific and distinct open 
hearted mental state, which led to the creation of a new pharmacological class, 
"entactogens". Extensive literature on its mechanisms of action has come to 
characterize MDMA as a "messy" drug with multiple mechanisms, but the consensus 
is that the distinctive entactogenic effects arise from the release of 
neurotransmitters, primarily serotonin. I propose an alternative hypothesis: The 
entactogenic mental state is due to the simultaneous direct activation of 
imidazoline-1 (I1) and serotonin-2 (5-HT2) receptors by MDMA. This hypothesis 
emerges from "mental organ" theory, which embodies many hypotheses, the most 
relevant of which are: "Mental organs" are populations of neurons that all 
express their defining metabotropic receptor, and each mental organ plays a 
distinct role in the mind, a role shaped by evolution as mental organs evolve by 
duplication and divergence. Mental organs are the mechanism by which evolution 
sculpts the mind. Mental organs can be in or out of consciousness. In order for 
a mental organ to enter consciousness, three things must happen: The mental 
organ must be activated directly at its defining receptor. 5-HT2 must be 
simultaneously activated. One of the functions of activated 5-HT2 is to load 
other simultaneously activated mental organs fully into consciousness. In some 
cases THC must be introduced to remove long-term blocks mediated by the 
cannabinoid system. I propose the "primer/probe" method to test these 
hypotheses. A "primer" is a drug that selectively activates 5-HT2 (e.g. DOB or 
MEM) or serotonin-1 (5-HT1) and 5-HT2 (e.g. DOET or 2C-B-fly). A "probe" is a 
drug that activates a receptor whose corresponding mental organ we wish to load 
into consciousness in order to understand its role in the mind. The mental organ 
is loaded into consciousness when the primer and probe are taken together, but 
not when taken separately. For example, the blood pressure medications 
rilmenidine and moxonidine are selective for imidazoline-1 and can be used to 
test the hypothesis that the entactogenic mental effects of MDMA are due to 
loading the imidazoline-1 mental organ into consciousness. The primer/probe 
method is not limited to testing the specific hypothesis about MDMA and 
imidazoline, but is a general method for studying the role of mental organs in 
the mind. For example, the role of dopamine mental organs can be studied by 
using Parkinson's drugs such as ropinirole or pramipexole as probes.

Copyright Â© 2015 The Author. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2015.12.018
PMID: 26826641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
