1. Am J Med. 1989 Sep 18;87(3C):38S-40S. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)90504-4.

Hypertension in the elderly.

Dall JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Victoria Infirmary, Glasgow, Scotland.

The relation between hypertension, cerebrovascular disease, and heart failure in 
the elderly is well established. The concept that this was entirely due to 
hardening of the arteries and, therefore, an essential feature of aging has been 
revised in the last 15 years to show that there are groups of elderly people in 
whom hypertension is not a problem, and in this group stroke disease and heart 
failure are relatively uncommon. The treatment of hypertension in the elderly 
attracts increasing attention. The successful lowering of blood pressure in the 
elderly has now been reported by many authors with a variety of therapeutic 
agents. The case for treatment has been demonstrated in those up to 80 years of 
age by the European Working Party in Hypertension in the Elderly, and relevant 
data on compliance are also available in the older age group in the Sub-Group 
Analysis of the Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Programme. A similar 
reduction of blood pressure, both systolic and diastolic, can be safely achieved 
with thiazides, beta-blockade, calcium channel blockade, angiotensin-converting 
enzyme inhibitors, and centrally acting drugs. The differentiation between these 
groups is largely a matter of the side effects that occur and any concurrent 
existing illness from which the patient suffers, e.g., diabetes, bronchitis, 
heart failure, and so on. From the information available to date, the problem of 
choice of the most suitable drug remains a clinical decision for the prescribing 
doctor.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)90504-4
PMID: 2782325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
