1. Am J Med. 1989 Sep 18;87(3C):41S-45S. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)90505-6.

Acceptability of rilmenidine and long-term surveillance of plasma concentrations 
in hypertensive patients with renal insufficiency.

Lins RL(1), Daelemans R, Dratwa M, Verbeelen D, Sennesael J, Brisgand B, Lameire 
N.

Author information:
(1)A.Z. Stuivenberg, Afdeling Nierziekten-Hypertensie, Antwerp, Belgium.

Acceptability and plasma concentrations of rilmenidine, a new antihypertensive 
agent mainly eliminated via the kidney, were evaluated in 17 hypertensive 
patients (supine diastolic blood pressure, 104 +/- 3 mmHg) with renal 
insufficiency (creatinine clearance, 35 +/- 4 ml.minute-1/1.73 m2; range, 12 to 
58). Patients were treated for six months with rilmenidine at the dose of 1 mg 
in the morning or 1 mg twice daily as single-drug therapy in untreated patients, 
or in combination or as substitution in patients already treated. Plasma 
concentrations of rilmenidine were measured by gas chromatography combined with 
mass spectrometry at Days 0, 1, 5, 7, 9, and 11, and Months 1.5, 3, 4.5, and 6 
before administration. Supine and erect blood pressure (sphygmomanometer) 
measurements and side effects were noted at the same times. Laboratory and 
electrocardiographic parameters were evaluated at Days 0 and 11, and Months 1.5 
and 6. Blood pressure was effectively controlled during the trial in 12 patients 
(mean decrease in systolic/diastolic blood pressure of 12/8 mmHg). Five patients 
were removed from the trial after Month 1.5 because of a rise in blood pressure 
(three cases) or noncompliance (two cases). Side effects were moderate and 
transient (dry mouth, constipation, daytime drowsiness, mood disturbances, 
insomnia) never requiring treatment withdrawal. Surveillance of renal function 
revealed no significant mean variation. Rilmenidine plasma concentrations 
reached steady state the fifth day at the latest and were related to the degree 
of renal insufficiency. When renal function was stable (13 cases), plasma 
concentrations did not vary until the end of the trial. When renal function was 
progressive (four cases), plasma concentrations increased in parallel in two 
patients, without the onset of side effects, and remained stable in the other 
two patients. In conclusion, this study confirmed the good acceptability of 
rilmenidine in hypertensive patients with chronic renal insufficiency. It showed 
stable plasma concentrations of rilmenidine during a six-month treatment in 
hypertensive patients with renal insufficiency, reflecting the absence of 
accumulation of the drug.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)90505-6
PMID: 2782326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
