1. Am J Med. 1989 Sep 18;87(3C):30S-33S. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)90502-0.

Treatment of hypertension in diabetic patients.

Lambert AE(1), Mpoy M, Vandeleene B, Ketelslegers JM.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Endocrinologie et Nutrition, University Hospital St. Luc, Brussels, 
Belgium.

Hypertension, common in diabetic patients, worsens not only the risk of 
cardiovascular complications, but also that of microangiopathic complications 
(nephropathy, retinopathy) of diabetes mellitus. It is thus important to ensure 
the perfect control of even mild hypertension in diabetic patients. However, 
treatment sometimes becomes difficult given that certain categories of 
antihypertensive drugs interfere with blood glucose control and/or lipid 
metabolism, interfere with the symptomatology of hypoglycemia, or promote 
orthostatic hypotension, a complication of autonomic neuropathy. A study was 
undertaken to determine the effects of rilmenidine, administered for 16 weeks, 
in 29 diabetic patients treated with insulin and experiencing mild-to-moderate 
hypertension (supine diastolic blood pressure, 96.7 +/- 0.5 mmHg). Administered 
as single-drug therapy, rilmenidine rapidly normalized blood pressure (systolic 
blood pressure, less than 160 mmHg; diastolic blood pressure, no more than 90 
mmHg--supine) in 17 patients; this persisted throughout the trial period. 
Addition of a diuretic after 12 weeks in the remaining 12 patients led to 
normalization of blood pressure in nine additional patients. Blood glucose 
control (evaluated at home by weekly blood glucose measurements and by 
glycosylated hemoglobin levels) was unaffected by treatment. Plasma levels of 
cholesterol (total, high-density lipoprotein and low-density lipoprotein), 
triglycerides and proteinuria (or microalbuminuria) showed no change during the 
course of the trial. In conclusion, rilmenidine offers an effective and safe 
treatment for mild-to-moderate hypertension in diabetic patients treated with 
insulin and does not interfere with their blood glucose control.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)90502-0
PMID: 2782324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
