1. Am J Med. 1989 Sep 18;87(3C):46S-56S. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)90506-8.

Effort blood pressure control in the course of antihypertensive treatment.

de Divitiis O(1), Di Somma S, Liguori V, Petitto M, Magnotta C, Ausiello M, 
Natale N, Brignoli M, Galderisi M.

Author information:
(1)Medical Physiopathology, University la Sapienza, Rome, Italy.

In 30 patients with mild hypertension (diastolic blood pressure, 95 to 105 
mmHg), the antihypertensive effect of rilmenidine 1 mg was compared in a 
double-blind study, with the effect of hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg. Patients not 
satisfactorily controlled received a combined therapy on the same doses of the 
two drugs used. Rilmenidine and hydrochlorothiazide induced a significant 
reduction (p = 0.01) of supine and erect systolic/diastolic blood pressure 23 
hours after drug intake with no change in heart rate. This effect was due to a 
reduction in cardiac output (bioimpedance method) significant (p = 0.05) only 
for rilmenidine. Both drugs controlled the increase of effort systolic blood 
pressure in comparison with placebo on systemic vascular resistance treadmill 
exercise testing. Effort cardiac output was increased by each treatment in 
comparison with baseline values. Both at rest and on exertion, there was no 
effect on systemic vascular resistance induced by the two drugs. In a second 
group of 10 patients with moderate hypertension (diastolic blood pressure, 105 
to 115 mmHg), rilmenidine 1 mg was administered in order to evaluate its 
efficacy and hemodynamic effects (bioimpedance and radionuclide 
ventriculography), at rest and during a lying cycloergometer effort test. The 
drug induced a significant decrease in blood pressure at rest and on exertion 
four hours after drug intake. This effect was due to a reduction (p = 0.05) in 
systemic vascular resistance, whereas cardiac output and heart rate remained 
unchanged. Our results show that the reduction in systolic/diastolic blood 
pressure induced by rilmenidine 1 mg is comparable with that induced by the 
well-known antihypertensive drug hydrochlorothiazide in mild hypertension. In 
moderate hypertension, the 1-mg dose appears to be insufficient in controlling 
the blood pressure in all patients. The drug exerts its antihypertensive effect 
through the normalization of the altered hemodynamic parameters of hypertension 
(high cardiac output and/or increased systemic vascular resistance). Rilmenidine 
also respects the physiologic increase in blood pressure and cardiac output on 
exertion.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)90506-8
PMID: 2782327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
