1. Inflammopharmacology. 2017 Feb;25(1):107-118. doi: 10.1007/s10787-016-0299-7. 
Epub 2016 Nov 21.

Analysing the effect of I(1) imidazoline receptor ligands on DSS-induced acute 
colitis in mice.

Fehér Á(1), Tóth VE(1), Al-Khrasani M(1), Balogh M(1), Lázár B(1), Helyes Z(2), 
Gyires K(1), Zádori ZS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, Faculty of Medicine, 
Semmelweis University, Nagyvárad tér 4, Budapest, 1089, Hungary.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, Szentagothai Research Centre 
and MTA-NAP B Chronic Pain Research Group, University of Pécs, Pécs, Hungary.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, Faculty of Medicine, 
Semmelweis University, Nagyvárad tér 4, Budapest, 1089, Hungary. 
zadori.zoltan@med.semmelweis-univ.hu.

Imidazoline receptors (IRs) have been recognized as promising targets in the 
treatment of numerous diseases; and moxonidine and rilmenidine, agonists of 
I1-IRs, are widely used as antihypertensive agents. Some evidence suggests that 
IR ligands may induce anti-inflammatory effects acting on I1-IRs or other 
molecular targets, which could be beneficial in patients with inflammatory bowel 
disease (IBD). On the other hand, several IR ligands may stimulate also 
alpha2-adrenoceptors, which were earlier shown to inhibit, but in more recent 
studies to rather aggravate colitis. Hence, this study aimed to analyse for the 
first time the effect of various I1-IR ligands on intestinal inflammation. 
Colitis was induced in C57BL/6 mice by adding dextran sulphate sodium (DSS) to 
the drinking water for 7 days. Mice were treated daily with different IR 
ligands: moxonidine and rilmenidine (I1-IR agonists), AGN 192403 (highly 
selective I1-IR ligand, putative antagonist), efaroxan (I1-IR antagonist), as 
well as with the endogenous IR agonists agmatine and harmane. It was found that 
moxonidine and rilmenidine at clinically relevant doses, similarly to the other 
IR ligands, do not have a significant impact on the macroscopic and histological 
signs of DSS-evoked inflammation. Likewise, colonic myeloperoxidase and serum 
interleukin-6 levels remained unchanged in response to these agents. Thus, our 
study demonstrates that imidazoline ligands do not influence significantly the 
severity of DSS-colitis in mice and suggest that they probably neither affect 
the course of IBD in humans. However, the translational value of these findings 
needs to be verified with other experimental colitis models and human studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-016-0299-7
PMID: 27873165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
