1. Front Physiol. 2016 Nov 15;7:522. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2016.00522. eCollection 
2016.

Comparison in Conscious Rabbits of the Baroreceptor-Heart Rate Reflex Effects of 
Chronic Treatment with Rilmenidine, Moxonidine, and Clonidine.

Parkin ML(1), Lim K(1), Burke SL(1), Head GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Baker IDI Heart and Diabetes Institute 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

We investigated the effects of chronic subcutaneous treatment with 
centrally-acting antihypertensive agents moxonidine, rilmenidine, and clonidine 
on the baroreflex control of heart rate (HR) in conscious normotensive rabbits 
over 3 weeks. Infusions of phenylephrine and nitroprusside were performed at 
week 0 and at weeks 1 and 3 of treatment to determine mean arterial pressure 
(MAP)-HR baroreflex relationships. A second curve was performed after 
intravenous methscopolamine to determine the sympathetic baroreflex 
relationship. The vagal component of the reflex was determined by subtracting 
the sympathetic curve from the intact curve. Clonidine and moxonidine (both 1 
mg/kg/day), and rilmenidine (5 mg/kg/day), reduced MAP by 13 ± 3, 15 ± 2, and 13 
± 2 mmHg, respectively, but had no effect on HR over the 3-week treatment 
period. Whilst all three antihypertensive agents shifted baroreflex curves to 
the left, parallel to the degree of hypotension, moxonidine and rilmenidine 
decreased the vagal contribution to the baroreflex by decreasing the HR range of 
the reflex but moxonidine also increased sympathetic baroreflex range and 
sensitivity. By contrast clonidine had little chronic effect on the cardiac 
baroreflex. The present study shows that second generation agents moxonidine and 
rilmenidine but not first generation agent clonidine chronically shift the 
balance of baroreflex control of HR toward greater sympathetic and lesser vagal 
influences. These changes if translated to hypertensive subjects, may not be 
particularly helpful in view of the already reduced vagal contribution in 
hypertension.

DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2016.00522
PMCID: PMC5108798
PMID: 27895591
