1. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 21;11(12):e0168425. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168425. 
eCollection 2016.

The Effects of Rilmenidine and Perindopril on Arousal Blood Pressure during 24 
Hour Recordings in SHR.

Lim K(1), Jackson KL(1), Burke SL(1), Head GA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Baker IDI Heart and Diabetes Institute, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.

The surge in arterial pressure during arousal in the waking period is thought to 
be largely due to activation of the sympathetic nervous system. In this study we 
compared in SHR the effects of chronic administration of the centrally acting 
sympatholytic agent rilmenidine with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor 
perindopril on the rate of rise and power of the surge in mean arterial pressure 
(MAP) that occurs with arousal associated with the onset of night. Recordings 
were made using radiotelemetry in 17 adult SHR before and after treatment with 
rilmenidine (2mg/kg/day), perindopril (1mg/kg/day) or vehicle in the drinking 
water for 2 weeks. Rilmenidine reduced MAP by 7.2 ± 1.7mmHg while perindopril 
reduced MAP by 19 ± 3mmHg. Double logistic curve fit analysis showed that the 
rate and power of increase in systolic pressure during the transition from light 
to dark was reduced by 50% and 65%, respectively, but had no effect on diastolic 
pressure. Rilmenidine also reduced blood pressure variability in the autonomic 
frequency in the active period as assessed by spectral analysis which is 
consistent with reduction in sympathetic nervous system activity. Perindopril 
had no effect on the rate or power of the arousal surge in either systolic or 
diastolic pressure. These results suggest that the arousal induced surge in 
blood pressure can largely be reduced by an antihypertensive agent that inhibits 
the sympathetic nervous system and that angiotensin converting enzyme 
inhibition, while effective in reducing blood pressure, does not alter the rate 
or power of the surge associated with arousal.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168425
PMCID: PMC5176293
PMID: 28002478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.
