1. Neurochem Int. 2017 May;105:80-90. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2017.01.010. Epub
2017  Jan 23.

MDMA-induced neurotoxicity of serotonin neurons involves autophagy and 
rilmenidine is protective against its pathobiology.

Mercer LD(1), Higgins GC(1), Lau CL(1), Lawrence AJ(1), Beart PM(2).

Author information:
(1)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3010, Australia.
(2)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3010, Australia. Electronic address: 
philip.beart@florey.edu.au.

Toxicity of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) towards biogenic amine 
neurons is well documented and in primate brain predominantly affects serotonin 
(5-HT) neurons. MDMA induces damage of 5-HT axons and nerve fibres and 
intracytoplasmic inclusions. Whilst its pathobiology involves 
mitochondrially-mediated oxidative stress, we hypothesised MDMA possessed the 
capacity to activate autophagy, a proteostatic mechanism for degradation of 
cellular debris. We established a culture of ventral pons from embryonic murine 
brain enriched in 5-HT neurons to explore mechanisms of MDMA neurotoxicity and 
recruitment of autophagy, and evaluated possible neuroprotective actions of the 
clinically approved agent rilmenidine. MDMA (100 μM-1 mM) reduced cell 
viability, like rapamycin (RM) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), in a concentration- 
and time-dependent manner. Immunocytochemistry revealed dieback of 5-HT arbour: 
MDMA-induced injury was slower than for RM and H2O2, neuritic blebbing occurred 
at 48 and 72 h and Hoechst labelling revealed nuclear fragmentation with 100 μM 
MDMA. MDMA effected concentration-dependent inhibition of [3H]5-HT uptake with 
500 μM MDMA totally blocking transport. Western immunoblotting for microtubule 
associated protein light chain 3 (LC3) revealed autophagosome formation after 
treatment with MDMA. Confocal analyses and immunocytochemistry for 5-HT, Hoechst 
and LC3 confirmed MDMA induced autophagy with abundant LC3-positive puncta 
within 5-HT neurons. Rilmenidine (1 μM) protected against MDMA-induced injury 
and image analysis showed full preservation of 5-HT arbours. MDMA had no effect 
on GABA neurons, indicating specificity of action at 5-HT neurons. MDMA-induced 
neurotoxicity involves autophagy induction in 5-HT neurons, and rilmenidine via 
beneficial actions against toxic intracellular events represents a potential 
treatment for its pathobiology in sustained usage.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2017.01.010
PMID: 28122248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
