1. Biomed Mass Spectrom. 1985 May;12(5):230-7. doi: 10.1002/bms.1200120509.

Bistrifluoromethylaryl derivatives for drug analysis by gas chromatography 
electron capture negative ion chemical ionization mass spectrometry. Application 
to the measurement of (N-dicyclopropylmethyl)amino-2-oxazoline in plasma.

Murray S, Watson D, Davies DS.

A gas chromatographic mass spectrometric assay for (N-dicyclopropylmethyl) 
amino-2-oxazoline in plasma with a detection limit of 0.1 ng ml-1 was required. 
Various fluoroaryl derivatives of this compound (code name S3341) were 
synthesized and their positive ion chemical ionization and electron capture 
negative ion chemical ionization mass spectra recorded. While fluorobenzyl 
derivatives of S3341 could be made by heating with the requisite benzyl bromide 
and diisopropylethylamine in acetonitrile, initial efforts to synthesize 
corresponding fluorobenzoyl derivatives using a benzoyl chloride in dry ethyl 
acetate at 60 degrees C were unsuccessful. Mass spectral data indicated that 
only a fragment of the oxazoline ring was retained in the reaction product and 
that an N-(2-chloroethyl)benzamide was formed. However, when 
diisopropylethylamine was included in the reaction mixture, a benzoyl derivative 
of the complete molecule was obtained. The mechanisms of these reactions are 
discussed. The negative ion mass spectrum of the 3,5-bistrifluoromethylbenzoyl 
derivative of S3341 has a base peak at m/z 420 (the molecular ion) and, when 
this ion is specifically monitored, an amount of derivative equivalent to 1 pg 
of S3341 can be detected. This allowed the development of an assay for S3341 in 
plasma with a precision of 9% (SD) at 0.2 ng ml-1 and a lower limit for 
quantitative determination of 0.1 ng ml-1.

DOI: 10.1002/bms.1200120509
PMID: 2862929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
