1. Am J Cardiol. 1988 Feb 24;61(7):95D-102D. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90474-2.

Efficacy and safety of rilmenidine for arterial hypertension.

Beau B(1), Mahieux F, Paraire M, Laurin S, Brisgand B, Vitou P.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Recherches Internationales Servier, Neuilly sur Seine, France.

To assess the long-term acceptability and efficacy of rilmenidine (S 3341), 
patients with placebo-resistant hypertension (diastolic blood pressure [BP] 
greater than or equal to 95 mm Hg and less than 115 mm Hg) were included in an 
open 1-year treatment study. Eight examinations allowed treatment adaptation if 
diastolic BP remained greater than or equal to 90 mm Hg (monotherapy with 
rilmenidine, 1 or 2 mg/day, followed by the addition of a diuretic, then 
tritherapy). Three hundred seventeen patients, aged 58.0 +/- 0.7 years, were 
included. Two hundred sixty-nine were followed for 1 year and 48 withdrew from 
the trial without any symptom suggesting a withdrawal syndrome: 4 because of 
adverse effects; 6, lack of efficacy despite triple therapy; 9, intercurrent 
diseases; 10, noncompliance independent of adverse effects; 18, personal reasons 
not associated with treatment; and 1, lost to follow-up. On the 12th month, the 
decrease in supine systolic and diastolic BP reached 25 and 17 mm Hg with 
monotherapy (n = 150), 26 and 17 mm Hg with double therapy (n = 90) and 20 and 
15 mm Hg with triple therapy (n = 29). BP was normalized (diastolic BP less than 
or equal to 90 mm Hg) on months 6 and 12 in 80 and 84% of the patients, 
respectively. Monotherapy was maintained in 66 and 60% of these patients, 
respectively, two-thirds being treated with 1 mg once daily. Adverse effects 
with monotherapy were mainly observed at the beginning of treatment in 3 to 8%: 
dry mouth, asthenia, gastralgia, palpitations, drowsiness, insomnia; other 
adverse effects were rare (1 to 2%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90474-2
PMID: 2894168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
