1. Am J Cardiol. 1988 Feb 24;61(7):67D-71D. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90468-7.

Hemodynamic and electrophysiologic effects of a new alpha 2-adrenoceptor 
agonist, rilmenidine, for systemic hypertension.

Zannad F(1), Aliot E, Florentin J, Saulnier JP, Gilgenkrantz JM.

Author information:
(1)Departement de pharmacologie clinique, Faculté de Médecine, Nancy, France.

The hemodynamic and electrophysiologic effects of rilmenidine were examined 
after single oral administration to hypertensive patients. In 8 untreated 
hypertensive patients, cardiac output, pulmonary pressure and blood pressure 
were measured before and for 10 hours after the administration of 25 
micrograms/kg of rilmenidine (1.3 to 2.4 mg, mean 1.88). In addition, 
electrophysiologic investigations were performed before and 2 hours after 
administration. Hemodynamics were repeated in 8 other hypertensive patients 
receiving 50 micrograms/kg rilmenidine (3.0 to 4.8 mg, mean 3.85 mg). The 
electrophysiologic study was repeated in 8 other hypertensive patients receiving 
50 micrograms/kg of rilmenidine (3.2 to 4.4 mg, mean 3.90). In contrast to the 
results obtained at the dose of 50 micrograms/kg, there was no significant 
variation in pulmonary arterial pressure, cardiac index or stroke index after 
administration of 25 micrograms/kg. No significant variation was observed in 
heart rate, sinus function, conduction parameters or atrial, nodal and 
ventricular refractory periods after administration of 25 and 50 micrograms/kg. 
Rilmenidine, after single oral administration at the 25 micrograms/kg dose, led 
to a significant reduction in blood pressure and peripheral resistance without 
any significant change in cardiac output; the 25- and 50-micrograms/kg doses led 
to no alteration in heart rate and cardiac electrophysiology.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90468-7
PMID: 2894162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
