1. Am J Cardiol. 1988 Feb 24;61(7):35D-38D. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90462-6.

Effects of two alpha 2 agonists, rilmenidine and clonidine, on the morphine 
withdrawal syndrome and their potential addictive properties in rats.

Tierney C(1), Nadaud D, Koenig-Berard E, Stinus L.

Author information:
(1)Unit√© Inserm 259, Bordeaux, France.

The interaction between adrenergic systems and opiate receptors or neuronal 
systems linked to these receptors has been previously demonstrated. For this 
reason, clonidine can be used to reduce withdrawal syndrome to opiates. 
Rilmenidine (S 3341) is a new agonist of alpha 2 adrenoceptors. The purpose of 
these experiments was to compare the effects of rilmenidine and clonidine on 
morphine withdrawal syndrome and their potential addictive properties in the 
rat. Rats were made morphine-dependent by repeated intraperitoneal (i.p.) 
administration of increasing doses of morphine. Withdrawal was precipitated by 
injecting naloxone subcutaneously. Withdrawal scores were evaluated for 10 
minutes. Clonidine (0.05, 0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg, i.p.) and rilmenidine (5 and 10 
mg/kg, i.p.) significantly reduced overall withdrawal scores. Addictive 
potential was evaluated in the rat by a place preference test after the 
following treatments (mg/kg, i.p.): rilmenidine 0.1 to 5, clonidine 0.01 to 0.5, 
heroin 0.12, and d-amphetamine 1.5. Rilmenidine did not modify the time spent in 
the conditioned side at doses of 0.1 to 1 and 5 mg/kg, but increased it at 2.5 
mg/kg (+25%). In contrast, a reinforcing effect was induced by clonidine (+21%, 
+43%, +34% at 0.1, 0.25, 0.5 mg/kg), heroin (+39%) and amphetamine (+52%). In 
conclusion, rilmenidine as well as clonidine reduced the morphine withdrawal 
syndrome. However, rilmenidine was 100 times less active than clonidine. 
Clonidine, heroin and d-amphetamine have clear reinforcing properties. 
Rilmenidine did not exhibit dose-dependent reinforcing properties and the 
isolated effect noted after 2.5 mg/kg is difficult to interpret because it is 
minor and is not observed with a higher dose.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90462-6
PMID: 2894155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
