1. Am J Cardiol. 1988 Feb 24;61(7):91D-94D. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90473-0.

Treatment of systemic hypertension in insulin-treated diabetes mellitus with 
rilmenidine.

Mpoy M(1), Vandeleene B, Ketelslegers JM, Lambert AE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Nutrition, Cliniques Universitaires Saint Luc, 
University of Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.

The effects of a new alpha 2 agonist (S 3341 or rilmenidine) on blood pressure 
(BP), glycemic control, lipid metabolism and renal function were investigated 
during a 16-week open study in 29 insulin-treated diabetic patients with mild to 
moderate hypertension. There were 17 men and 12 women aged 50.9 +/- 2.2 years 
(mean +/- standard error of the mean). Duration of diabetes and insulin therapy 
was 218 +/- 24 and 143 +/- 30 months. After 2 weeks of placebo, systolic and 
diastolic BP was 165 +/- 3 and 97 +/- 0.5 mm Hg, respectively (supine). 
Rilmenidine (S 3341) given alone at daily doses of 1 or 2 mg according to the 
clinical response led to a prompt and sustained decrease of systolic and 
diastolic BP (159 +/- 4 and 88 +/- 1 mm Hg after 2 weeks; 149 +/- 3 and 85 +/- 1 
mm Hg after 12 weeks; p less than 0.01). Seventeen patients (59%) had normal BP 
(systolic BP less than 160; diastolic BP less than 90 mm Hg, supine) after 12 
weeks of S 3341. Diuretics were associated with S 3341 for the nonresponders at 
week 12; this led to normalization of BP in 90% of the patients at the end of 
the study. Glycemic control was assessed by home glucose monitoring (5 
determinations/1 day per week), 24-hour glucosuria and postprandial plasma 
glucose at the outpatient clinic (n = 7) as well as by the measurement of the 
glycosylated hemoglobin. None of these parameters was significantly affected by 
S 3341.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90473-0
PMID: 2894167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
