1. Am J Cardiol. 1988 Feb 24;61(7):6D-14D. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90457-2.

Pharmacology of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist rilmenidine.

Van Zwieten PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacotherapy, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Most alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists developed so far will penetrate into the 
brain, thus causing central hypotensive activity, mediated by the stimulation of 
alpha 2 adrenoceptors in the region of the nucleus tractus solitarii, the 
vasomotor center and the nucleus of the vagus nerve. The central alpha 2 
adrenoceptors are probably located at postjunctional (postsynaptic) sites. Their 
stimulation causes sympathoinhibition and thus a decrease in blood pressure and 
heart rate. The central hypotensive effect is the dominating activity of all 
alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists developed so far, of which clonidine, guanfacine 
and alpha-methyl-DOPA (which is converted into alpha-methyl-noradrenaline) are 
the prototypes. Peripheral postsynaptic effects probably do not greatly 
contribute to the hypotensive activity of these drugs. Sedation, also mediated 
by central alpha 2 adrenoceptors is the major adverse reaction to these 
antihypertensive agents. More selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists (B-HT 920, 
azepexole, UK 14,304) appear to display the same pattern of hypotensive and 
sedative activities as the nonselective compounds like clonidine. After the 
general survey on centrally acting alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonistic drugs, the 
pharmacologic profile of the new oxazoline derivative, rilmenidine, (S 3341) was 
compared with that of the classic compound, clonidine. In all current animal and 
in vitro models, rilmenidine was characterized as a clonidine-like, centrally 
acting antihypertensive drug. Thus, its central hypotensive activity proved 
mediated by the stimulation of central alpha 2 adrenoceptors. In radioligand 
binding studies, rilmenidine proved somewhat more selective for alpha 2 
adrenoceptors, but this selectivity was not reflected by a clearly different 
pharmacologic profile of the drug.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90457-2
PMID: 2894160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
