1. Am J Cardiol. 1988 Feb 24;61(7):81D-85D. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90471-7.

A multicenter double-blind comparative study of rilmenidine and clonidine in 333 
hypertensive patients.

Fillastre JP(1), Letac B, Galinier F, Le Bihan G, Schwartz J.

Author information:
(1)Service de NÃ©phrologie, Centre Hospitalier de Rouen, France.

The efficacy and acceptability of rilmenidine were studied in a double-blind 
clonidine-controlled multicenter trial; after a 4-week placebo run-in period, 
patients with supine diastolic blood pressure (BP) between 95 and 115 mm Hg 
received as monotherapy either rilmenidine or clonidine over 6 weeks. The 
initial dose (rilmenidine 1 mg/day or clonidine 0.15 mg/day) was doubled (1 mg 
or 0.15 mg twice a day, respectively) after 2 weeks if diastolic BP remained 
greater than or equal to 90 mm Hg. Three hundred and thirty-three patients (mean 
age 57.8 +/- 0.7 years) with a systolic BP of 170.53 +/- 0.92 mm Hg and a 
diastolic BP of 101.57 +/- 0.30 mm Hg were randomly divided into 2 homogenous 
groups (rilmenidine, n = 162 and clonidine, n = 171). All patients taking 
rilmenidine completed the trial. Seventeen patients taking clonidine (10%, p 
less than 0.01 vs rilmenidine) were withdrawn because of severe side effects. 
Systolic and diastolic BP were significantly reduced in both groups at every 
examination (at 2, 4 and 6 weeks). The mean decreases in supine and erect BP 
were identical in both groups: systolic BP 19 mm Hg and diastolic BP 12 mm Hg 
after 6 weeks. BP was normalized (systolic BP less than 160 and diastolic BP 
less than or equal to 90 mm Hg) in 57% of patients taking rilmenidine and 56% of 
patients taking clonidine (60% of normalized patients had been taking the single 
dose in both groups).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90471-7
PMID: 2894165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
