1. Am J Cardiol. 1988 Feb 24;61(7):39D-44D. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90463-8.

Effects of continuous infusions (10 days) and cessation of infusions of 
clonidine and rilmenidine (S 3341) on cardiovascular and behavioral parameters 
of spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Jarrott B(1), Lewis SJ, Doyle AE, Louis WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Melbourne, Austin Hospital, Heidelberg, 
Victoria, Australia.

Clonidine is a centrally acting antihypertensive drug that acts in vivo at both 
alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptor sites, whereas rilmenidine (S 3341) is more 
selective for alpha 2 adrenoceptors. The present study compared the effects of 
continuous 10-day infusions of clonidine (5 micrograms/kg/hour) with those of 
rilmenidine (100 micrograms/kg/hour) on various cardiovascular and behavioral 
parameters in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. The changes in these 
parameters after cessation of the infusions were also compared. At these rates 
of infusion, clonidine and rilmenidine produced quantitatively similar 
reductions in mean arterial pressure (MAP), lability of MAP and cardiovascular 
responsiveness during normal behaviors such as eating and grooming. Neither drug 
infusion affected heart rate. The cessation of the clonidine infusion resulted 
in a "withdrawal" syndrome characterized by prominent rapid eye movement-sleep 
rebound, and cardiovascular and behavioral disturbances including an increased 
lability of MAP, exaggerated cardiovascular responses during normal behaviors, 
tachycardia, and an "opiate abstinence-like" syndrome including head and body 
shakes. Cessation of rilmenidine infusion resulted in somewhat similar 
cardiovascular and behavioral disturbances, but unlike clonidine there was a 
return to normal rapid eye movement sleep without rebound.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90463-8
PMID: 2894156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
