1. Am J Cardiol. 1988 Feb 24;61(7):72D-75D. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90469-9.

Noninvasive study of cardiac structure and function after rilmenidine for 
essential hypertension.

N'guyen van Cao A(1), Levy B, Slama R.

Author information:
(1)Service de Cardiologie, Hôpital Lariboisière, Paris, France.

The hemodynamic effects of rilmenidine (S 3341) were evaluated noninvasively by 
aortic Doppler velocimetry, M-mode echocardiography and phonocardiography in 
hypertensive patients treated for 28 days. After a 2-week placebo run-in period, 
patients with mild hypertension (group I, n = 8, mean diastolic blood pressure 
[BP] = 97.18 +/- 0.65 mm Hg) received 1 mg of rilmenidine each morning and 
patients with moderate hypertension (group II, n = 6, mean diastolic BP = 107.62 
+/- 1.18 mm Hg) received 1 mg twice daily. The hemodynamic variations in both 
groups after the first administration (day 1) showed that during the first 3 
hours, mean arterial pressure and cardiac index (CI) were significantly reduced, 
whereas total peripheral resistance (TPR) was increased. From the third to the 
fifth hour, the decrease in mean arterial pressure was maintained, CI was higher 
than initial values and TPR decreased, indicating a persistent vasodilator 
effect. On day 28, hemodynamic variations were similar but of a lower amplitude. 
Before administration on day 28, a significant decrease in systolic and 
diastolic BP was observed, demonstrating that the antihypertensive activity of 1 
mg was maintained for 24 hours, with a significant reduction in TPR and no 
modification of CI or stroke index. The M-mode and phonocardiographic left 
ventricular function indexes remained unchanged. Rilmenidine has a prolonged 
antihypertensive activity with a chronic vasodilator effect and no negative 
inotropic effect.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90469-9
PMID: 2894163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
