1. Am J Cardiol. 1988 Feb 24;61(7):22D-31D. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90460-2.

Cardiovascular and central nervous system effects of rilmenidine (S 3341) in 
rats.

Koenig-Berard E(1), Tierney C, Beau B, Delbarre G, Lhoste F, Labrid C.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Recherches Internationales Servier, Neuilly-sur-Seine, France.

Rilmenidine (S 3341) is a new alpha 2 agonist, with antihypertensive properties. 
Pharmacologic data concerning its hemodynamic and central nervous system effects 
in the rat are described in this report. In the anesthetized or conscious 
spontaneously hypertensive rat, rilmenidine was found effective and potent as an 
antihypertensive agent, lowering blood pressure in a dose-dependent manner after 
intravenous and oral administration. These effects are related to a reduction in 
sympathetic tone as seen by the decrease in plasma catecholamines induced by 
rilmenidine in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. Studies in the normotensive 
pithed rat (electrical stimulation and adrenalectomization) confirmed the 
presynaptic alpha 2-stimulating properties of rilmenidine and suggested that a 
component of the antihypertensive activity of rilmenidine could be exerted 
through these peripheral receptors. A study of the central effects of 
rilmenidine was performed using classic neuropharmacologic tests. No effect was 
observed on the pentobarbitone-induced sleeping time in the rat. Rilmenidine 
caused only a minimal and non-dose-dependent inhibition of the righting reflex 
in the chick. In the rat, rilmenidine did not decrease the motor activity at 
concentrations up to 50 times higher than the antihypertensive dose. These 
results confirmed the contrast between rilmenidine and clonidine and suggest 
that a dissociation between sedative and antihypertensive effects could occur 
with rilmenidine.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90460-2
PMID: 2894153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
