1. Am J Cardiol. 1988 Feb 24;61(7):76D-80D. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90470-5.

Efficacy and acceptability of rilmenidine for mild to moderate systemic 
hypertension.

Ostermann G(1), Brisgand B, Schmitt J, Fillastre JP.

Author information:
(1)Clinique Médicale Hôpital R. Debré, Reims, France.

A double-blind multicenter trial compared rilmenidine with placebo in the 
treatment of 126 patients with mild to moderate hypertension after a 4-week 
placebo run-in period. Patients with mild hypertension (study 1) with mean 
supine diastolic blood pressure (BP) between 95 and 104 mm Hg received either 
rilmenidine 1 mg/day (n = 31) or placebo (n = 35) for 4 weeks. In study 2, 
patients with moderate hypertension (mean supine diastolic BP between 105 and 
115 mm Hg) received either rilmenidine 1 mg twice a day (n = 30) or placebo 
twice a day (n = 30) for 4 weeks. All 61 patients taking rilmenidine completed 
the study; 8 of the 65 patients taking placebo were withdrawn because of an 
increase in BP. Rilmenidine significantly reduced mean systolic and diastolic BP 
compared with placebo in both studies. BP was normalized (systolic less than 160 
mm Hg and diastolic less than or equal to 90 mm Hg in 61% of the patients taking 
rilmenidine as opposed to 23% of those taking placebo (p less than 0.001). There 
was no significant difference in the incidence of either dry mouth or daytime 
drowsiness between rilmenidine, 1 mg/day, and placebo. Dry mouth was 
significantly more frequent with rilmenidine, 2 mg/day, than with placebo, but 
this difference was transient and no longer significant at the end of the study. 
No unexpected adverse effects occurred. Rilmenidine as single therapy appears to 
be effective and well accepted in the management of mild to moderate 
hypertension, in particular at the 1-mg/day dose, which normalized 84% of mild 
hypertensive patients and did not induce any significant adverse effects 
compared with placebo.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(88)90470-5
PMID: 2894164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
