1. Autophagy. 2018;14(3):534-551. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2017.1385674. Epub 2017
Dec  17.

Rilmenidine promotes MTOR-independent autophagy in the mutant SOD1 mouse model 
of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis without slowing disease progression.

Perera ND(1), Sheean RK(1), Lau CL(1), Shin YS(1), Beart PM(1), Horne MK(1), 
Turner BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)a The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of 
Melbourne , Parkville , Victoria , Australia.

Macroautophagy/autophagy is the main intracellular catabolic pathway in neurons 
that eliminates misfolded proteins, aggregates and damaged organelles associated 
with ageing and neurodegeneration. Autophagy is regulated by both MTOR-dependent 
and -independent pathways. There is increasing evidence that autophagy is 
compromised in neurodegenerative disorders, which may contribute to cytoplasmic 
sequestration of aggregation-prone and toxic proteins in neurons. Genetic or 
pharmacological modulation of autophagy to promote clearance of misfolded 
proteins may be a promising therapeutic avenue for these disorders. Here, we 
demonstrate robust autophagy induction in motor neuronal cells expressing SOD1 
or TARDBP/TDP-43 mutants linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). 
Treatment of these cells with rilmenidine, an anti-hypertensive agent and 
imidazoline-1 receptor agonist that induces autophagy, promoted autophagic 
clearance of mutant SOD1 and efficient mitophagy. Rilmenidine administration to 
mutant SOD1G93A mice upregulated autophagy and mitophagy in spinal cord, leading 
to reduced soluble mutant SOD1 levels. Importantly, rilmenidine increased 
autophagosome abundance in motor neurons of SOD1G93A mice, suggesting a direct 
action on target cells. Despite robust induction of autophagy in vivo, 
rilmenidine worsened motor neuron degeneration and symptom progression in 
SOD1G93A mice. These effects were associated with increased accumulation and 
aggregation of insoluble and misfolded SOD1 species outside the autophagy 
pathway, and severe mitochondrial depletion in motor neurons of 
rilmenidine-treated mice. These findings suggest that rilmenidine treatment may 
drive disease progression and neurodegeneration in this mouse model due to 
excessive mitophagy, implying that alternative strategies to beneficially 
stimulate autophagy are warranted in ALS.

DOI: 10.1080/15548627.2017.1385674
PMCID: PMC5915012
PMID: 28980850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
