1. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 1988 Dec;26(6):703-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2125.1988.tb05308.x.

Comparative effects of rilmenidine and clonidine on bronchial responses to 
histamine in asthmatic subjects.

Dinh Xuan AT(1), Matran R, Regnard J, Vitou P, Advenier C, Lockhart A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Physiologie et d'Explorations Fonctionnelles Respiratoires, 
HÃ´pital Cochin, Paris, France.

1. The effects of pretreatment with clonidine and rilmenidine, a new alpha 
2-adrenoceptor agonist, on the bronchial responses to inhaled histamine were 
studied on 3 different days in a controlled, double-blind, randomized study in 
12 asymptomatic asthmatic subjects. Clonidine and rilmenidine were orally 
administered as single and equipotent doses of 150 micrograms and 1 mg, 
respectively. All the subjects were non-smokers with normal lung function tests 
(forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) = 97 +/- 10% predicted FEV1). 2. 
Histamine (first dose = 543 nmol) was delivered by a breath activated dosimeter 
(DeVilbiss no. 646 nebulizer) every 5 min; FEV1 was measured in triplicate after 
each dose and the largest value was analyse. The three dose-response curves were 
compared by analysis of variance. 3. Both clonidine and rilmenidine decreased 
arterial blood pressure in all subjects. There was no difference in baseline 
values and pre-challenge values of FEV1 after placebo, clonidine and rilmenidine 
on the 3 study days. Compared with placebo, both rilmenidine and clonidine 
significantly increased the bronchial responses to histamine (P less than 0.05 
and P less than 0.01 respectively) an effect which was significantly more marked 
with clonidine than rilmenidine (P less than 0.05). 4. We suggest that the 
enhancement of bronchial responsiveness to histamine by clonidine and 
rilmenidine may result from their effects on both central and peripheral alpha 
2-adrenoceptors, and that the lesser aggravation of histamine-induced bronchial 
obstruction in asthmatic subjects on rilmenidine might be explained by its 
lesser central and/or greater peripheral effects than clonidine.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2125.1988.tb05308.x
PMCID: PMC1386584
PMID: 2907408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
