1. Arch Int Pharmacodyn Ther. 1988 Nov-Dec;296:29-44.

In vitro effects of S.3341 on the spontaneous contractile activity of the rat 
portal vein: interference with the alpha-adrenergic stimulation.

Bourreau JP(1), Feletou M, Tricoche R.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Physiologie Animale, CNRS U.A. 290 Biomembrane, Universit√© de 
Poitiers, France.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the alpha 1-adrenoceptor properties of 
S.3341, a new alpha-adrenoceptor agonist. Experiments were performed by 
recording isometric tension of the rat portal vein. pD2 values and apparent 
intrinsic efficacy of alpha-adrenoceptor agonists (S.3341, norepinephrine, 
phenylephrine and clonidine) were assessed from cumulative 
concentration-response curves. Particular attention was paid to the variations 
in the amplitude of spontaneous contractions and the increase in the tonus of 
the vein induced by these agonists. The rank order of activity (pD2 values) of 
these agonists on the amplitude of spontaneous contractions and on the tonus was 
as follows: norepinephrine greater than or equal to phenylephrine greater than 
clonidine greater than S.3341. The activity of S.3341 on spontaneous 
contractions of the vein was found to be of the alpha 1-type only at 
concentrations higher than 10(-6)M. This concentration-dependent effect was 
antagonized by prazosin but not by rauwolscine. For concentrations lower than 
10(-6)M, S.3341 decreased the amplitude of spontaneous contractions. This effect 
was not modified by prazosin or rauwolscine and was affected (decreased) after 
treatment of the vein with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). S.3341 was barely able to 
increase the tonus of the vein, whatever the concentration used. Moreover, 
S.3341 was able to antagonize the increase in amplitude of spontaneous 
contraction and tonus of the vein induced by clonidine and phenylephrine. The 
effect of S.3341 on the slow inward calcium current was also tested and no 
effect was found, even at high concentrations. The results suggest that in the 
rat portal vein, S.3341 is a weak partial alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist which 
exhibits a quite novel property not related to an adrenergic stimulation or a 
calcium entry blocking property. The mechanism of this novel effect remains to 
be elucidated.

PMID: 2907280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
