1. J Auton Pharmacol. 1988 Dec;8(4):319-26. doi: 
10.1111/j.1474-8673.1988.tb00575.x.

Rilmenidine (S 3341) and the sympathoadrenal system: adrenoreceptors, plasma and 
adrenal catecholamines in dogs.

Valet P(1), Tran MA, Damase-Michel C, de Saint-Blanquat G, Dang Tran L, Anglade 
F, Koenig-Berard E, Montastruc JL.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Pharmacologie Médicale et Clinique, INSERM U 317, Faculté de 
Médecine, Toulouse, France.

1. The effects of rilmenidine, a new alpha 2-adrenoreceptor agonist with 
antihypertensive properties, were investigated on plasma catecholamines, blood 
cell adrenoreceptors and adrenal medullary function. 2. In conscious sino-aortic 
denervated (SAD) dogs, rilmenidine (1 mg kg-1 orally for 2 weeks) significantly 
reduced both blood pressure and heart rate when compared with placebo treatment. 
The drug decreased plasma noradrenaline and adrenaline levels and corrected the 
decrease in leucocyte beta-adrenoreceptors observed in placebo-treated SAD dogs. 
There was no change in platelet alpha 2-adrenoreceptors. 3. In anaesthetized 
normotensive dogs, rilmenidine (0.1 and 0.3 mg kg-1 i.v.) induced a 
dose-dependent decrease in both cardiovascular parameters (blood pressure and 
heart rate) and catecholamine release from the adrenal medulla. 4. The present 
study shows that rilmenidine decreases sympathetic tone mainly by an action on 
the adrenal medulla. In addition, its ability to lower blood pressure in SAD 
dogs, i.e. a model of hypertension in which high sympathetic tone is present, 
indicates that rilmenidine may also depress other parts of the sympathetic 
nervous system.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-8673.1988.tb00575.x
PMID: 2908112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
