1. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 1988 Oct;15(10):765-72. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1681.1988.tb01016.x.

Rilmenidine acts as a partial agonist at prejunctional alpha 2-adrenoceptors in 
guinea-pig atria.

Li CG(1), Rand MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, 
Australia.

1. The present study was carried out to determine whether rilmenidine, a 
recently introduced antihypertensive agent which acts on alpha 2-adrenoceptors, 
has partial agonist activity on prejunctional alpha 2-adrenoceptors in 
guinea-pig atria. 2. Isolated preparations of guinea-pig atria were incubated 
with [3H]-noradrenaline and the efflux of radioactivity induced by stimulation 
of intramural sympathetic nerves was used as an index of release of transmitter 
noradrenaline. 3. Rilmenidine (1 mumol/l) inhibited noradrenaline release evoked 
by short trains (five, 20 and 50 pulses) of sympathetic nerve stimulation and 
this inhibitory effect of rilmenidine was antagonized by the alpha 
2-adrenoceptor antagonists, idazoxan (0.1 and 0.3 mumol/l) and rauwolscine (0.3 
mumol/l) whereas it was not affected by the alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist 
prazosin (0.1 mumol/l). 4. On the other hand, rilmenidine (1 mumol/l) enhanced 
noradrenaline release evoked by long trains (150 and 300 pulses) of stimulation 
and this effect was also abolished by idazoxan (0.1 mumol/l). 5. These findings 
suggest that the effects of rilmenidine on transmitter release depend on the 
degree of auto-inhibition: when the concentration of noradrenaline in the 
biophase of the prejunctional alpha 2-adrenoceptors is low, rilmenidine acts as 
an agonist, but when the concentration is high it acts as an antagonist. Thus, 
rilmenidine, like clonidine, is a partial agonist on prejunctional alpha 
2-adrenoceptors in guinea-pig atria.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1681.1988.tb01016.x
PMID: 2908410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
