1. Cardiol Res Pract. 2018 Apr 1;2018:8387613. doi: 10.1155/2018/8387613. 
eCollection 2018.

Hypertension Treatment in Patients with Metabolic Syndrome and/or Type 2 
Diabetes Mellitus: Analysis of the Therapy Effectivity and the Therapeutic 
Inertia in Outpatient Study.

Farský Š(1), Strišková A(1), Borčin M(1).

Author information:
(1)House of the Heart (Dom Srdca), Slovak League against Hypertension, Martin, 
Slovakia.

We have analysed the database of 1,595 consecutive patients visiting our 
department of cardiology and internal medicine clinic in 2005-2014. The analysis 
included 13,990 visit records, and the average number of visits per patient was 
8.5 ± 7.0. Our goals were to evaluate the effectivity of hypertension treatment 
as for drug choice, decrease of sBP and dBP associated with a certain drug, a 
drug combination, and therapeutic inertia in patients with metabolic syndrome 
and/or diabetes mellitus. The final number of patients for analysis who 
fulfilled the inclusion criteria for interpenetration of both diagnostic circles 
was 570. Results. 15% of patients were treated using hypertension monotherapy, 
70% of patients were treated using 2- to 4-drug combination therapy, and 15% of 
patients were treated using 5- to 6-drug combination. The drugs used most 
frequently were perindopril (perin), nitrendipine (nitre), amlodipine (amlo), 
telmisartan (telmi), hydrochlorothiazide (hydro), rilmenidine, and nebivolol 
(used in >100 patients). The most significant decrease of sBP was associated 
with treatment by nitre, hydro, telmi, and urapidil (>19 mmHg). The most 
significant decrease of dBP was associated with treatment by nitre, hydro, 
telmi, and verapamil (>10 mmHg). The most significant decrease of both sBP and 
dBP was associated with treatment using 3-drug combination of 
telmi + hydro + spironolactone (41 and 16 mmHg, resp.), telmi + hydro + nitre 
(34 and 15 mmHg, resp.), and telmi + hydro + urapidil (34 and 15 mmHg, resp.). 
At the last visit, 281 out of 413 patients at the first visit had sBP >140 mmHg 
(68%); that is, sBP control was 32%. At the last visit, 76 patients out of 217 
at the first visit had dBP >90 mmHg (35%); that is, dBP control was 65%. 
Therapeutic inertia was calculated by evaluating the proportion of visits at 
which sBP was above the target for eligible visits minus the proportion of 
visits where the change was made in antihypertensive treatment (AHT), either 
medication type or dose, over the number of eligible visits, with the resultant 
value multiplied by the mean of the difference between the actual sBP and the 
target value at clinic visits. TIQ was counted at first 200 consecutive 
patients, and the average value was 57.30 ± 147.20. Conclusion. The study 
presents the real-life data concerning the difficulties in hypertension 
treatment in patients with concomitant metabolic syndrome and/or type 2 diabetes 
mellitus. sBP was controlled at 32% patients only. The study results allow 
evaluating the effectivity of hypertension treatment as for drug choice, 
decrease of sBP and dBP associated with a certain drug, a drug combination, and 
therapeutic inertia in these patients.

DOI: 10.1155/2018/8387613
PMCID: PMC5901812
PMID: 29805801
