1. Cardiovasc Hematol Disord Drug Targets. 2019;19(2):95-108. doi: 
10.2174/1871529X18666180629170336.

Cardiovascular Effects Mediated by Imidazoline Drugs: An Update.

Cobos-Puc L(1), Aguayo-Morales H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Chemistry, Autonomous University of 
Coahuila, Saltillo, Mexico.

OBJECTIVE: Clonidine is a centrally acting antihypertensive drug. Hypotensive 
effect of clonidine is mediated mainly by central α2-adrenoceptors and/or 
imidazoline receptors located in a complex network of the brainstem. 
Unfortunately, clonidine produces side effects such as sedation, mouth dry, and 
depression. Moxonidine and rilmenidine, compounds of the second generation of 
imidazoline drugs, with fewer side effects, display a higher affinity for the 
imidazoline receptors compared with α2-adrenoceptors. The antihypertensive 
action of these drugs is due to inhibition of the sympathetic outflow primarily 
through central I1-imidazoline receptors in the RVLM, although others anatomical 
sites and mechanisms/receptors are involved. Agmatine is regarded as the 
endogenous ligand for imidazoline receptors. This amine modulates the 
cardiovascular function. Indeed, when administered in the RVLM mimics the 
hypotension of clonidine.
RESULTS: Recent findings have shown that imidazoline drugs also exert biological 
response directly on the cardiovascular tissues, which can contribute to their 
antihypertensive response. Currently, new imidazoline receptors ligands are in 
development.
CONCLUSION: In the present review, we provide a brief update on the 
cardiovascular effects of clonidine, moxonidine, rilmenidine, and the novel 
imidazoline agents since representing an important therapeutic target for some 
cardiovascular diseases.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1871529X18666180629170336
PMID: 29962350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
