1. J Neuroimmunol. 2018 Nov 15;324:1-15. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2018.08.010.
Epub  2018 Aug 18.

Sympathetic neurotransmission in spleens from aging Brown-Norway rats subjected 
to reduced sympathetic tone.

Perez SD(1), Molinaro CA(2), Tan L(3), ThyagaRajan S(4), Lorton D(5), Bellinger 
DL(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Washington Adventist University, MD, Virginia 20912, 
USA. Electronic address: sperez@wau.edu.
(2)Department of Human Anatomy and Pathology, Loma Linda University School of 
Medicine, Loma Linda, CA 92354, USA. Electronic address: cmolinaro@llu.edu.
(3)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care, Loma Linda University School of 
Medicine, Loma Linda, CA 92354, USA. Electronic address: latan@llu.edu.
(4)Integrative Medicine Laboratory, Department of Biotechnology, SRM University, 
Kattankulathur 603203, India. Electronic address: 
thyagarajan.s@ktr.srmuniv.ac.in.
(5)College of Arts and Sciences, Kent State University, Summa Health System, 
Akron, OH 44304, USA.. Electronic address: ddifran7@kent.edu.
(6)Department of Human Anatomy and Pathology, Loma Linda University School of 
Medicine, Loma Linda, CA 92354, USA. Electronic address: dbellinger@llu.edu.

Senescence of innate and adaptive responses and low-grade inflammation 
(inflammaging) hallmarks normal aging, which increases vulnerability to 
infectious diseases, autoimmunity and cancer. In normal aging, sympathetic 
dysregulation contributes to the dysregulation of innate and adaptive immunity 
and inflammaging. Sympathetic innervation of immune cells in secondary immune 
organs regulates immune responses. Previously in Fischer 344 (F344) rats, we 
reported an age-related increase in sympathetic tone and sympathetic dysfunction 
in beta-adrenergic receptor (AR) signaling of splenic lymphocytes that 
contributes to immune senescence, although the responsible mechanisms remains 
unexplored. In this study, we extend our previous findings using the much 
longer-lived Brown-Norway (BN) rats, whose behavior and immune response profile 
differ strikingly from F344 rats. Here, we investigated whether increased 
sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) in the aging spleen contributes to age-related 
sympathetic neuropathy and altered neurotransmission in splenic lymphocytes in 
BN rats. Fifteen-month male BN rats received 0, 0.5 or 1.5 μg/kg/day rilmenidine 
intraperitoneally for 90 days to lower sympathetic tone. Untreated young and 
age-matched rats controlled for effects of age. We found that elevated SNA in 
the aging BN rat spleen does not contribute significantly to sympathetic 
neuropathy or the aging-induced impairment of canonical β-AR signal 
transduction. Despite the rilmenidine-induced increase in β-AR expression, 
splenocyte c-AMP production was comparable with age-matched controls, thus 
dampening nerve activity had no effect on receptor coupling to adenylate 
cyclase. Understanding how aging affects neuroimmune regulation in healthy aging 
rodent models may eventually lead to strategies that improve health in aging 
populations vulnerable to immunosenescence and low-grade systemic inflammation.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2018.08.010
PMID: 30195094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
