1. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2019 Apr 2;511(2):363-368. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2019.02.054. Epub 2019 Feb 19.

Synergism of myocardial β-adrenoceptor blockade and I(1)-imidazoline 
receptor-driven signaling: Kinase-phosphatase switching.

Maltsev AV(1), Evdokimovskii EV(2), Kokoz YM(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Biophysics, Russian Academy of 
Sciences, Moscow Region, Pushchino, Institutskaya, 3, 142290, Russia; Institute 
of Higher Nervous Activity and Neurophysiology, Russian Academy of Sciences, 
Moscow, Butlerova 5А, 117485, Russia. Electronic address: 
alex.v.maltsev88@gmail.com.
(2)Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Biophysics, Russian Academy of 
Sciences, Moscow Region, Pushchino, Institutskaya, 3, 142290, Russia.

Recently identified imidazoline receptors of the first type (I1Rs) on the 
cardiomyocyte's sarcolemma open a new field in calcium signaling research. In 
particular, it is interesting to investigate their functional interaction with 
other well-known systems, such as β-adrenergic receptors. Here we investigated 
the effects of I1Rs activation on L-type voltage-gated Ca2+-currents under 
catecholaminergic stress induced by the application of β-agonist, isoproterenol. 
Pharmacological agonist of I1Rs (I1-agonist), rilmenidine, and the putative 
endogenous I1-ligand, agmatine, have been shown to effectively reduce 
Ca2+-currents potentiated by isoproterenol. Inhibitory analysis shows that the 
ability to suppress voltage-gated Ca2+-currents by rilmenidine and agmatine is 
fully preserved in the presence of the protein kinase A blocker (PKA), which 
indicates a PKA-independent mechanism of their action. The blockade of NO 
synthase isoforms with 7NI does not affect the intrinsic effects of agmatine and 
rilmenidine, which suggests NO-independent signaling pathways triggered by I1Rs. 
A nonspecific serine/threonine protein phosphatase (STPP) inhibitor, calyculin 
A, abrogates effects of rilmenidine or agmatine on the isoproterenol-induced 
Ca2+-currents. Direct measurements of phosphatase activity in the myocardial 
tissues showed that activation of the I1Rs leads to stimulation of STPP, which 
could be responsible for the I1-agonist influences. Obtained data clarify 
peripheral effects that occur during activation of the I1Rs under endogenous 
catecholaminergic stress, and can be used in clinical practice for more precise 
control of heart contractility in some cardiovascular pathologies.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2019.02.054
PMID: 30795862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
