1. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2019 Aug 15;671:62-68. doi: 10.1016/j.abb.2019.05.024. 
Epub 2019 May 31.

Disturbance of I(1)-imidazoline receptor signal transduction in cardiomyocytes 
of Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats.

Maltsev AV(1), Evdokimovskii EV(2), Kokoz YM(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Biophysics, Russian Academy of 
Sciences, 142290, Institutskaya 3, Pushchino, Moscow Region, Russia; Institute 
of Higher Nervous Activity and Neurophysiology, Russian Academy of Sciences, 
117485, Butlerova 5A, Moscow, Russia. Electronic address: 
alex.v.maltsev88@gmail.com.
(2)Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Biophysics, Russian Academy of 
Sciences, 142290, Institutskaya 3, Pushchino, Moscow Region, Russia.

Imidazoline receptor of the first type (I1R) in addition to the established 
inhibition of sympathetic neurons may mediate the direct control of myocellular 
functions. Earlier, we revealed that I1-mediated signaling in the normotensive 
rat cardiomyocytes suppresses the nitric oxide production by endothelial NO 
synthase, impairs sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA) activity, and 
elevates intracellular calcium in the cytosol. Also, I1-agonists counteract 
β-adrenoceptor stimulation effects in respect to voltage-gated calcium currents. 
This study ascertains the I1R signal transduction in the normotensive Wistar and 
SHR cardiomyocytes. Reduction of Ca2+-currents by rilmenidine, a specific 
agonist of I1R, ensued from the phosphatidylcholine-specific phospholipase 
C-mediated activation of protein kinase C. There is a stimulation of 
serine/threonine phosphatase activity. In SHR cardiomyocytes, both the 
rilmenidine, and putative endogenous ligand, agmatine, almost twofold less 
effectively reduced L-type of Ca2+-currents. Average mRNA level of Nischarin, 
established functional component of I1R, is slightly decreased in SHR, as well 
as the intracellular Nischarin pool immunolabeled in the cytosol of SHR 
cardiomyocytes. Disturbance of I1R signal transduction in SHR may aggravate the 
development of this cardiovascular pathology.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.abb.2019.05.024
PMID: 31158332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
