1. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2020 Apr;47(4):609-619. doi: 
10.1111/1440-1681.13232. Epub 2020 Jan 22.

Effect of imidazoline-1 receptor agonists on renal dysfunction in rats 
associated with chronic, sequential fructose and ethanol administration.

Elkomy NMIM(1), Ibrahim IAAE(1), El-Fayoumi HM(1)(2), Elshazly SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Zagazig 
University, Zagazig, Egypt.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kantara Sinai 
University, Arish, Egypt.

Insulin resistance and chronic alcoholism are risk factors for renal 
dysfunction. This study investigated the therapeutic effects of two 
imidazoline-1 receptor (I1R) agonists on renal dysfunction in rats after 
chronic, sequential fructose and ethanol administration. Daily drinking water 
was supplemented with fructose (10%, w/v) for 12 weeks and then with ethanol 
(20%, v/v) for another 8 weeks. Rats were treated with rilmenidine and clonidine 
in the last two weeks of the study. Blood glucose and serum insulin (sIns) 
levels, lipid profiles, kidney function and renal histopathology were evaluated 
at the end of the experiment. Additionally, renal gene expression of nischarin, 
phosphatidylcholine-specific phospholipase C (PC-PLC) and prostaglandin E2 
(PGE2) were measured. Renal levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD), 
malondialdehyde (MDA), myeloperoxidase (MPO), inducible nitric oxide synthase 
(iNOS) and total NO (tNO) were detected, and we determined the relative renal 
gene expression levels of alpha smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), hydroxyproline, 
interleukin 10 (IL-10), tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and caspase-3. The 
results showed significant deterioration of blood glucose, sIns, lipid profiles, 
kidney function and renal histopathology in fructose/ethanol-fed rats. 
Additionally, markers of inflammation, fibrosis, apoptosis and oxidative stress 
were upregulated. The administration of rilmenidine or clonidine significantly 
improved blood glucose and sIns levels and reduced renal dysfunction. Our work 
showed that chronic, sequential fructose and ethanol administration induced 
fasting hyperglycaemia and renal impairment, and these effects were ameliorated 
by I1R agonists.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1440-1681.13232
PMID: 31869439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
