1. J Chromatogr Sci. 2022 Jan 1;60(1):45-50. doi: 10.1093/chromsci/bmab035.

Development and Validation of Two New Methods for the Determination of 
Rilmenidine in Bulk and Pharmaceutical Preparation.

Özdemir E(1), Ergin Kizilçay G(2), Ertürk Toker S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Istanbul Yeni Yuzyil 
University, Istanbul 34010, Turkey.
(2)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Istanbul University, 
Istanbul 34416, Turkey.

In the present study, two new methods were developed and validated for the 
determination of rilmenidine in bulk and pharmaceutical preparation. Both 
methods are based on a derivatization reaction using 
4-chloro-7-nitro-1,2,3-benzoxadiazole (NBD-Cl) as a fluorogenic substance. The 
drug reagent derivatives were formed by the reaction of rilmenidine with NBD-Cl 
at pH 9.0 at 70°C for 40 min. The reaction mixtures were analyzed by 
spectrofluorimetry in the first method and high performance liquid 
chromatography (HPLC) in the second method. Derivatives were determined at λex 
493 nm and at λem 536 nm in the spectrofluorimetric method. The separation was 
performed place on a Phenomenex, C18 column (250 × 4.6 mm, 5 μm i.d) using a 
mobile phase comprising 0.2% formic acid and acetonitrile gradient elution mode 
in the HPLC method. Analytes were detected by a fluorescence detector at the 
same wavelength. The methods were validated for limit of quantitation, 
linearity, robustness, recovery, limit of detection, precision and accuracy. 
Calibration curves for the first and second methods were found to be linear in 
the range of 2.0-12.0 and 250-2000 ng/mL, respectively. Detection limits for the 
spectrofluorimetric and HPLC methods were calculated as 0.16 and 18.28 ng/mL, 
respectively. The validated methods were applied successfully to the 
determination of rilmenidine in bulk and pharmaceutical preparation.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/chromsci/bmab035
PMID: 33778877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
