1. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Jul 6;22(14):7271. doi: 10.3390/ijms22147271.

The Role of Autophagy in Chemical Proteasome Inhibition Model of Retinal 
Degeneration.

Gunawan M(1), Low C(1), Neo K(1), Yeo S(2), Ho C(3), Barathi VA(2)(4)(5), Chan 
AS(3), Sharif NA(6), Kageyama M(1).

Author information:
(1)Santen-SERI Open Innovation Centre, 20 College Road, The Academia, Singapore 
169856, Singapore.
(2)Translational Pre-Clinical Model Platform, Singapore Eye Research Institute, 
20 College Road, The Academia, Singapore 169856, Singapore.
(3)Singapore Eye Research Institute, 20 College Road, The Academia, Singapore 
169856, Singapore.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, 21 Lower Kent Ridge Road, Singapore 119077, Singapore.
(5)Academic Clinical Program in Ophthalmology, Duke-NUS Medical School, 8 
College Road, Singapore 169857, Singapore.
(6)Global Alliance and External Research, Santen Inc., Emeryville, CA 94608, 
USA.

We recently demonstrated that chemical proteasome inhibition induced inner 
retinal degeneration, supporting the pivotal roles of the ubiquitin-proteasome 
system in retinal structural integrity maintenance. In this study, using 
beclin1-heterozygous (Becn1-Het) mice with autophagic dysfunction, we tested our 
hypothesis that autophagy could be a compensatory retinal protective mechanism 
for proteasomal impairment. Despite the reduced number of autophagosome, the 
ocular tissue morphology and intraocular pressure were normal. Surprisingly, 
Becn1-Het mice experienced the same extent of retinal degeneration as was 
observed in wild-type mice, following an intravitreal injection of a chemical 
proteasome inhibitor. Similarly, these mice equally responded to other chemical 
insults, including endoplasmic reticulum stress inducer, N-methyl-D-aspartate, 
and lipopolysaccharide. Interestingly, in cultured neuroblastoma cells, we found 
that the mammalian target of rapamycin-independent autophagy activators, lithium 
chloride and rilmenidine, rescued these cells against proteasome 
inhibition-induced death. These results suggest that Becn1-mediated autophagy is 
not an effective intrinsic protective mechanism for retinal damage induced by 
insults, including impaired proteasomal activity; furthermore, autophagic 
activation beyond normal levels is required to alleviate the cytotoxic effect of 
proteasomal inhibition. Further studies are underway to delineate the precise 
roles of different forms of autophagy, and investigate the effects of their 
activation in rescuing retinal neurons under various pathological conditions.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22147271
PMCID: PMC8303873
PMID: 34298888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M.G., C.L., K.N., M.K., and N.A.S. are employees 
of Santen Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. The funders had no role in the design of the 
study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of 
the manuscript; or in the decision to publish the results.
