1. Physiol Res. 2022 Dec 16;71(6):763-770. doi: 10.33549/physiolres.935041. Epub 
2022 Nov 25.

Blood pressure reduction induced by chronic intracerebroventricular or peroral 
clonidine administration in rats with salt-dependent or angiotensin II-dependent 
hypertension.

Zicha J(1), Řezáčová L, Behuliak M, Vaněčková I.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiology, Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague, Czech Republic. 
Josef.Zicha@fgu.cas.cz.

The agonists of alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors such as clonidine, rilmenidine or 
monoxidine are known to lower blood pressure (BP) through a reduction of brain 
sympathetic outflow but their chronic antihypertensive effects in rats with 
low-renin or high-renin forms of experimental hypertension were not studied yet. 
Moreover, there is no comparison of mechanisms underlying BP reduction elicited 
by chronic peroral (po) or intracerebroventricular (icv) clonidine treatment. 
Male salt-sensitive Dahl rats fed 4% NaCl diet and Ren-2 transgenic rats were 
treated with clonidine administered either in the drinking fluid (0.5 mg/kg/day 
po) or as the infusion into lateral brain ventricle (0.1 mg/kg/day icv) for 4 
weeks. Basal BP and the contributions of renin-angiotensin system (captopril 10 
mg/kg iv) or sympathetic nervous system (pentolinium 5 mg/kg iv) to BP 
maintenance were determined in conscious cannulated rats at the end of the 
study. Both peroral and intracerebroventricular clonidine treatment lowered BP 
to the same extent in either rat model. However, in both models chronic 
clonidine treatment reduced sympathetic BP component only in rats treated 
intracerebroventricularly but not in perorally treated animals. In contrast, 
peroral clonidine treatment reduced angiotensin II-dependent vasoconstriction in 
Ren-2 transgenic rats, whereas it lowered residual blood pressure in Dahl rats. 
In conclusions, our results indicate different mechanisms of antihypertensive 
action of clonidine when administered centrally or systemically.

DOI: 10.33549/physiolres.935041
PMCID: PMC9814981
PMID: 36426892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest There is no conflict of 
interest.
