1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1995 Aug;352(2):121-6. doi: 
10.1007/BF00176764.

The stimulatory effect of clonidine through imidazoline receptors on locus 
coeruleus noradrenergic neurones is mediated by excitatory amino acids and 
modulated by serotonin.

Ruiz-Ortega JA(1), Ugedo L, Pineda J, García-Sevilla JA.

Author information:
(1)Departmento de Farmacología, Universidad del País Vasco, Bizkaia, Spain.

Clonidine and other imidazoline/oxazoline drugs, such as cirazoline and 
rilmenidine, have been shown to stimulate the activity of noradrenergic neurones 
in the locus coeruleus (NA-LC) by an alpha 2-adrenoceptor-independent mechanism 
through the activation of I-imidazoline receptors. The endogenous modulation of 
the stimulatory effect of clonidine on NA-LC neurones was further investigated 
after inactivation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors with 
N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ). In EEDQ-pretreated rats 
(6 mg/kg, i.p., 6 h), clonidine caused a rapid and dose-dependent (320-5120 
micrograms/kg, i.v.) increase in the firing rate of NA-LC neurones (ED50 = 809 
micrograms/kg, Emax = 90%). The stimulatory effect of clonidine on NA-LC 
neurones was completely blocked by pretreatment of rats with the excitatory 
amino acid receptor antagonist kynurenic acid (1-3 mumol in 10-30 microliters, 
i.c.v., 2-5 min before clonidine). In contrast, the stimulatory effect of 
clonidine on NA-LC neurones was potentiated by pretreatment with reserpine (5 
mg/kg, s.c., 18 h) (Emax increased by 63%). Pretreatment with 
alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (250 mg/kg, i.p., 24 h) did not alter the stimulatory 
effect of clonidine, but pretreatment with p-chloro-phenylalanine (400 mg/kg, 
i.p., 24 h) markedly enhanced the stimulatory effect of clonidine on NA-LC 
neurones (Emax increased by 139%). The present results indicate that the 
imidazoline receptor-mediated stimulatory effect of clonidine on NA-LC neurones 
is an indirect effect dependent on an excitatory amino acid pathway and 
modulated by an inhibitory serotonin mechanism.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00176764
PMID: 7477433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
