1. Eur J Pharmacol. 1995 Aug 25;282(1-3):29-37. doi:
10.1016/0014-2999(95)00265-m.

Involvement of peripheral presynaptic inhibition in the reduction of sympathetic 
tone by moxonidine, rilmenidine and UK 14304.

Urban R(1), Szabo B, Starke K.

Author information:
(1)Pharmakologisches Institut, UniversitÃ¤t Freiburg, Germany.

We studied the possibility that presynaptic inhibition of transmitter release 
from postganglionic sympathetic neurons contributes to the overall reduction of 
sympathetic tone produced by moxonidine, rilmenidine and 
5-bromo-6-(2-imidazolin-2-ylamino)-quinoxaline tartrate (UK 14304). In pithed 
rabbits without electric stimulation, moxonidine, rilmenidine and UK 14304 
caused a long-lasting, > 10 min, increase in arterial pressure. Heart rate was 
not changed. In pithed rabbits in which sympathetic tone was created by electric 
stimulation through the pithing rod (2 Hz), the same doses of moxonidine, 
rilmenidine and UK 14304 caused only a brief, < 10 min, blood pressure rise. 
Heart rate was decreased, as were the plasma concentrations of noradrenaline and 
adrenaline. Dose-response curves for the effects on the plasma noradrenaline 
concentration (stimulated pithed rabbits) were compared with previously obtained 
dose-response curves for depression of renal sympathetic nerve activity 
(conscious rabbits). For each drug, the curve describing peripheral presynaptic 
inhibition and the curve describing central sympathoinhibition were very 
similar. Both the power and the dose dependence of the peripheral inhibitory 
effect support its contribution to the overall decrease in sympathetic tone 
produced by clonidine-like drugs in intact animals. The peripheral effect in all 
likelihood consists in activation of presynaptic alpha 2-autoreceptors. The 
agreement of the dose-response curves for the peripheral and for the central 
effect supports the view that the central effect, like the peripheral one, is 
mediated through alpha 2-adrenoceptors.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(95)00265-m
PMID: 7498287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
