1. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1994 Jan;23(1):42-50. doi: 
10.1097/00005344-199401000-00006.

Rilmenidine-induced hypotension in conscious rabbits involves 
imidazoline-preferring receptors.

Sannajust F(1), Head GA.

Author information:
(1)Baker Medical Research Institute, Department of Neuropharmacology, Prahran, 
Victoria, Australia.

The relative contributions of imidazoline-preferring receptors (IPR) and alpha 
2-adrenoceptors to hypotensive and bradycardic effects of intracisternal (i.c.) 
rilmenidine were investigated in conscious rabbits. We compared the antagonist 
potencies of two alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonists, 2-methoxy-idazoxan (0.001-10 
micrograms/kg i.c.), which has very low affinity for IPR, and idazoxan (0.003-30 
micrograms/kg i.c.), which has high affinity for blocking IPR. We also compared 
the i.c. effects of the antagonists on responses to alpha-methyldopa (alpha-MD), 
a drug with centrally acting alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist metabolites that have 
no affinity for IPR. Rilmenidine (22 micrograms/kg i.c.) and alpha-MD (400 
micrograms/kg i.c.) produced similar decreases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) 
(delta MAP = -23 +/- 2 and -24 +/- 2%, respectively) and in heart rate (HR) 
(delta HR = -11 +/- 1 and -9 +/- 2%, respectively, n = 30). The hypotension and 
bradycardia produced by alpha-MD and rilmenidine were completely reversed by 
2-methoxy-idazoxan, but 2-methoxy-idazoxan was 16 and 9 times more potent at 
restoring MAP and HR, respectively, after alpha-MD than after rilmenidine. In 
contrast, idazoxan was more potent in reversing the hypotension elicited by i.c. 
injections of rilmenidine than that elicited by alpha-MD. Idazoxan, however, had 
no effect on rilmenidine-induced bradycardia, but did dose-dependently reverse 
the decrease in HR produced by alpha-MD. In separate experiments, we observed 
that the doses of each antagonist drug in themselves did not modify MAP nor HR 
significantly, but a 10-fold higher dose of idazoxan (300 micrograms/kg) caused 
immediate although brief hypertension and tachycardia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-199401000-00006
PMID: 7511734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
