1. Neuropeptides. 1995 Apr;28(4):197-207. doi: 10.1016/0143-4179(95)90023-3.

Effects of three alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists, rilmenidine, UK 14304 and 
clonidine on bradykinin- and substance P-induced airway microvascular leakage in 
guinea-pigs.

Biyah K(1), Advenier C.

Author information:
(1)Faculté de Médecine Paris-Ouest, Laboratoire de Pharmacologie, Paris, France.

The effects of three alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists, clonidine, rilmenidine and 
UK 14304 on the increase of microvascular permeability induced by bradykinin or 
substance P in guinea-pigs airways have been studied in vivo. Extravasation of 
intravenously (i.v.) injected Evans blue dye was used as index of permeability. 
The effects of the three alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists on the contraction 
induced by bradykinin (0.3 micrograms.kg-1, i.v.) and substance P (0.3 
micrograms.kg-1, i.v.) were also studied on the isolated guinea-pig trachea. The 
increase of plasma exudation induced by bradykinin (0.3 micrograms.kg-1, i.v.) 
was inhibited partially by rilmenidine and UK 14304 (20 micrograms and 100 
micrograms, intratracheally) respectively. These two substances had no action on 
the effects of substance P. The effects of rilmenidine and UK 14304 were 
abolished by alpha 2-blockers (idazoxan 1mg.kg-1 i.v. and RX 821001 100 
micrograms.kg-1, i.v.), but they were not altered by the alpha 1-blocker 
prazosin (30 micrograms.kg-1, i.v.). Under similar conditions, clonidine or the 
alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist methoxamine were without significant effects. In 
vitro, rilmenidine and UK 14304 inhibited partially the contractile effects of 
bradykinin but not those of substance P. To conclude, both rilmenidine and UK 
14304 inhibit the bradykinin-induced increase of vascular permeability in the 
airways, and they probably do so on peptidergic nerve endings at the 
prejunctional level since these substances are without effect on substance P. 
The absence of activity of clonidine in our study might be due to a difference 
in spectrum of action on the several types of alpha 2-adrenergic or imidazole 
receptors.

DOI: 10.1016/0143-4179(95)90023-3
PMID: 7541119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
