1. J Neurochem. 1995 Sep;65(3):988-97. doi: 10.1046/j.1471-4159.1995.65030988.x.

Regulation of phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase gene expression by 
imidazoline receptors in adrenal chromaffin cells.

Evinger MJ(1), Ernsberger P, Regunathan S, Reis DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, SUNY at Stony Brook 11794-8111, USA.

As adrenal medullary chromaffin cells express imidazoline binding sites in the 
absence of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors, these cells provide an ideal system in 
which to determine whether imidazolines can influence catecholamine gene 
expression through nonadrenergic receptors. This study evaluates the ability of 
clonidine and related drugs to regulate expression of the gene for the 
epinephrine-synthesizing enzyme phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) in 
the rat adrenal gland and in bovine adrenal chromaffin cell cultures. In vivo, 
PNMT and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA levels increase in rat adrenal medulla 
after a single injection of clonidine. Clonidine also dose-dependently 
stimulates PNMT mRNA expression in vitro in primary cultures of bovine 
chromaffin cells, with a threshold dose of 0.1 microM. Other putative 
imidazoline receptor agonists, including cimetidine, rilmenidine, and 
imidazole-4-acetic acid, likewise enhance PNMT mRNA production showing relative 
potencies that correlate with their binding affinities at chromaffin cell 
I1-imidazoline binding sites. The effects of clonidine on PNMT mRNA appear to be 
distinct from and additive with those exerted by nicotine. Moreover, neither 
nicotinic antagonists nor calcium channel blockers, which attenuate nicotine's 
influence on PNMT mRNA production, diminish clonidine's effects on PNMT mRNA. 
Although 100 microM clonidine diminishes nicotine-stimulated release of 
epinephrine and norepinephrine in chromaffin cells, this effect appears 
unrelated to stimulation of imidazoline receptor subtypes. This is the first 
report to link imidazoline receptors to neurotransmitter gene expression.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1471-4159.1995.65030988.x
PMID: 7643129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
