1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1995 Jul 12;763:552-65. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1995.tb32449.x.

Mechanism of sympathoinhibition by imidazolines.

Szabo B(1), Urban R.

Author information:
(1)Pharmakologisches Institut der Albert-Ludwigs-Universit√§t, Freiburg, Germany.

The aim of the present study is to characterize the cardiovascular effects of 
rilmenidine and moxonidine, two recently developed centrally acting 
antihypertensive drugs. Rilmenidine and moxonidine are alpha 2-adrenoceptor 
agonists and, in addition, possess affinity for imidazoline (I1)-receptors. To 
determine if alpha 2- or I1-receptors are involved in sympathoinhibition, 
rilmenidine and moxonidine were compared with UK 14304, an alpha 2-agonist 
devoid of affinity for I1-receptors, and antagonism by the "pure" alpha 
2-adrenoceptor antagonists yohimbine, SK&F86466, and RX821002 was studied. When 
injected intravenously into conscious rabbits, rilmenidine and moxonidine, on 
the one hand, and UK 14304, on the other, elicited a similar pattern of effects. 
Thus, transient hypertension was followed by long-lasting hypotension 
accompanied by a decrease in heart rate, renal sympathetic nerve firing rate, 
and plasma norepinephrine concentration. The effects of rilmenidine, moxonidine, 
and UK 14304 were antagonized by intravenously administered yohimbine, 
SK&F86466, and RX821002. The effects of moxonidine and UK 14304 were also 
prevented by yohimbine injected into the cisterna magna. Altogether, the degree 
of antagonism of the effects of rilmenidine and moxonidine did not differ from 
the degree of antagonism of the effects of UK 14304. Rilmenidine, moxonidine, 
and UK 14304 were also given to pithed rabbits in which a constant sympathetic 
tone was maintained by electrical stimulation of the sympathetic nerves. At 
doses that caused sympathoinhibition in conscious rabbits, they lowered the 
plasma norepinephrine concentration markedly. Our experiments show by direct 
measurement of sympathetic nerve activity and plasma norepepinephrine 
concentration that rilmenidine, moxonidine, and UK 14304 cause 
sympathoinhibition. As a consequence, blood pressure and heart rate decrease. 
The simplest interpretation of the blockade of central sympathoinhibition by the 
selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonists is that rilmenidine, moxonidine, and 
UK 14304 primarily activated alpha 2-adrenoceptors. The decrease in plasma 
norepinephrine in pithed rabbits indicates peripheral presynaptic alpha 
2-adrenoceptor-mediated inhibition of norepinephrine release per action 
potential from postganglionic sympathetic axons and suggests a contribution of 
this mechanism to the overall reduction in sympathetic tone.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1995.tb32449.x
PMID: 7677373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
