1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1995 Jul 12;763:673-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1995.tb32461.x.

Clinical pharmacology of drugs acting on imidazoline and adrenergic receptors. 
Studies with clonidine, moxonidine, rilmenidine, and atenolol.

Reid JL(1), Panfilov V, MacPhee G, Elliott HL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, University of Glasgow, Scotland.

Centrally acting antihypertensive drugs are recognized to be safe and effective 
treatment for high blood pressure. Centrally mediated side effects, such as 
sedation, are commonly dose- and treatment-limiting events. 
Imidazoline-preferring receptors, while functionally similar to alpha 2 
adrenoceptors, are distinguishable not only on the basis of in vitro radioligand 
binding but also in vivo in terms of side effects. Drugs with an imidazoline 
structure lower blood pressure but are less likely to impair psychomotor 
function. A placebo-controlled study compared moxonidine 0.1 mg with clonidine 
0.1 mg orally in nine normal subjects. Both active drugs lowered blood pressure 
compared to placebo (clonidine more than moxonidine). However, psychomotor 
function and self-scored sedation and dry mouth were significantly affected only 
by clonidine. In a long-term (4 weeks) double-blind cross-over study in 
essential hypertension, rilmenidine was well tolerated and had similar effects 
to those of atenolol on erect and supine blood pressure. Rilmenidine had no 
effect on a wide range of autonomic and psychomotor tests or on responses to 
mental or physical stress. Atenolol, by contrast, had the predicted effects of a 
beta adrenoceptor antagonist on heart rate during exercise and the Valsalva 
maneuver. Imidazoline-preferring drugs offer a new and realistic approach to 
antihypertensive therapy with blood pressure reduction not limited by marked 
sedation within the therapeutic dose range.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1995.tb32461.x
PMID: 7677387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
