1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1995 Jul 12;763:8-21. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1995.tb32387.x.

Possible structural and functional relationships between imidazoline receptors 
and alpha 2-adrenoceptors.

Hieble JP(1), Ruffolo RR Jr.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacological Sciences, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, 
King of Prussia, Pennsylvania 19406, USA.

Although it is now well established that imidazoline receptors and alpha 
2-adrenoceptors are discrete entities with distinct endogenous ligands, the two 
receptor classes apparently have several common features. While the 
catecholamines stimulate alpha 2-adrenoceptors but not imidazoline receptors, 
agmatine, a guanidine analog that may be an endogenous imidazoline receptor 
ligand, can interact with both I1 and I2 imidazoline receptors as well as alpha 
2-adrenoceptors, although, interestingly, other guanidines such as guanabenz are 
highly selective for alpha 2-adrenoceptors versus I1 receptors. Most I1 receptor 
agonists such as moxonidine, rilmenidine, and clonidine can also stimulate alpha 
2-adrenoceptors, and the same physiological response is produced by activation 
of central I1 receptors and alpha 2-adrenoceptors, but their anatomical 
locations differ. The imidazoline idazoxan is an antagonist at I1, I2, and alpha 
2-receptors, but minor structural alterations of idazoxan can result in 
molecules with selectivity for either alpha 2-adrenoceptors or imidazoline 
receptors. The precise mode of interaction of imidazoline agonists and 
antagonists with the alpha 2-adrenoceptor is not yet understood, and structures 
of the imidazoline receptors are still unknown. Nevertheless, the fact that many 
agents can stimulate or block both receptor classes, combined with the fact that 
alpha 2-adrenoceptors and I1 receptors can mediate identical physiological 
responses, suggests that many common structural features may be present.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1995.tb32387.x
PMID: 7677390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
