1. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1993 Aug;22(2):314-20. doi: 
10.1097/00005344-199308000-00022.

Sympathoinhibitory action of rilmenidine in conscious sinoaortically denervated 
rats.

Mayorov D(1), Chernobelski M, Medvedev O.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Pharmacology, National Cardiology Research Center, 
Moscow, Russia.

The responses of mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), and renal 
sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA) to rilmenidine administration and changes in 
these responses after idazoxan or yohimbine pretreatment were investigated in 
conscious sinoaortically denervated rats. Intravenous (i.v.) injection of 
rilmenidine (300 and 600 micrograms/kg) dose-dependently reduced MAP (16 and 
24%, respectively) and RSNA (31 and 56%, respectively), whereas bradycardia was 
similar at both doses of the drug. Intracisternal (i.c.) pretreatment with 
idazoxan (5 micrograms/kg), alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist with a high affinity 
to imidazoline receptors (IR) prevented rilmenidine-induced decreases in MAP but 
not in RSNA and HR. Rilmenidine (300 micrograms/kg i.c.) significantly decreased 
MAP by 24%, RSNA by 32%, and HR by 13%. Pretreatment with idazoxan (1 
microgram/kg i.c.) significantly attenuated the hypotensive and 
sympathoinhibitory effects of rilmenidine, whereas i.c. pretreatment with 
equimolar to 10-fold higher doses of yohimbine, an alpha 2-antagonist that binds 
poorly with IR, did not. Both idazoxan and yohimbine failed to affect the 
rilmenidine-induced bradycardia, however. We concluded that (a) rilmenidine 
exhibits more marked hypotensive effect when injected i.c. than when injected 
i.v., (b) a part of the inhibitory effect of i.v.-injected rilmenidine on RSNA 
may be exerted through idazoxan-insensitive mechanisms which might be activated 
by peripheral action of the drug, and (c) the hypotensive action of rilmenidine 
relates more to the interaction with IR than with alpha 2-adrenoceptors.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-199308000-00022
PMID: 7692175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
