1. Clin Exp Hypertens. 1995 Jan-Feb;17(1-2):141-52. doi:
10.3109/10641969509087061.

Central monoamine systems and new antihypertensive agents.

Head GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Baker Medical Research Institute, Prahran, 
Victoria, Australia.

This review describes the relationship between central monoamine pathways and 
centrally acting antihypertensive agents. By using antagonists with affinity for 
alpha 2-adrenoceptors and also imidazoline receptors we have found that the 
first generation agents clonidine and alpha-methyldopa activate alpha 
2-adrenoceptors while the newer second generation antihypertensive agents 
rilmenidine and moxonidine activate imidazoline receptors. Despite the 
difference in receptors activated, the hypotension produced by central 
administration of all agents was attenuated after chemical lesioning of the 
brainstem noradrenergic or serotonergic pathways suggesting a similar dependence 
on central monoamine pathways. Since the acute 6-hydroxydopamine-induced release 
of noradrenaline in the brainstem produces hypotension it suggests that these 
agents normally mimic brainstem noradrenergic function. By contrast the pressor 
response shortly following 5,6-dihydroxytryptamine suggests serotonergic 
neurones in the brainstem are pressor and that part of the anti-hypertensive 
action of centrally acting antihypertensive agents is mediated by inhibition of 
bulbar serotonergic pathways. We suggest that the similar haemodynamic and 
baroreflex effects of the two generations of agents can be explained by the 
alpha 2-adrenoceptors and the imidazoline receptors being in series along the 
noradrenergic and serotonergic pathways.

DOI: 10.3109/10641969509087061
PMID: 7735264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
