1. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 1994 Dec;8(6):787-99. doi: 10.1007/BF00877397.

Different types of centrally acting antihypertensives and their targets in the 
central nervous system.

van Zwieten PA(1), Chalmers JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacotherapy, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The central regulation of blood pressure and other cardiovascular parameters may 
involve the baroreceptor reflex are, including both adrenergic and serotonergic 
pathways, as well as amino acids, as neurotransmitters. Both adrenergic and 
serotonergic pathways have been recognized as targets for clinically relevant, 
centrally acting antihypertensives, such as clonidine, guanfacine, and 
alpha-methyl-DOPA. The central components of the hybrid drugs urapidil and 
ketanserin also involve serotonergic pathways and receptors. For urapidil the 
stimulation of 5-HT1A-receptors is assumed to induce peripheral 
sympathoinhibition, whereas for ketanserin the central mechanism is unknown in 
detail. More recently central imidazoline (I1) receptors have been proposed as 
the major target for the newer antihypertensives rilmenidine and moxonidine. 
Clonidine, however, is assumed to be mixed I1- and alpha2-receptor agonist. The 
distinction between central I1- and alpha2-receptors may potentially offer the 
design of new antihypertensives, acting like clonidine but with fewer side 
effects. Finally, the amino acid pathways should be considered as potential 
targets for centrally acting antihypertensives. Experimental compounds on this 
basis are available but clinical implications appear to be very remote. In the 
present survey an outline is given of the various pathways, neurotransmitters, 
and receptors involved in the central regulation of blood pressure. The 
different types of centrally acting antihypertensives are subsequently discussed 
on this basis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00877397
PMID: 7742257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
