1. Brain Res. 1995 Mar 27;675(1-2):264-78. doi: 10.1016/0006-8993(95)00083-3.

Quantitative autoradiographic localization in rat brain of alpha 2-adrenergic 
and non-adrenergic I-receptor binding sites labelled by [3H]rilmenidine.

King PR(1), Gundlach AL, Louis WJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Melbourne, Department of Medicine, Austin Repatriation 
Hospital, Heidelberg, Vic., Australia.

alpha 2A-Adrenergic receptor (AR) and non-adrenergic imidazoline receptor (I-R) 
binding sites have been previously characterized in rat cerebral cortex 
membranes using the N-substituted oxazoline, [3H]rilmenidine ([3H]Ril) [King, 
P.R. et al., Eur. J. Pharmacol., 218 (1992) 101-108]. In the present study, in 
vitro autoradiography was used to quantify the regional distribution of these 
receptors throughout the rat neuroaxis. The distribution and relative density 
(fmol/mg tissue) of I-Rs was examined in the presence of 1 microM adrenaline to 
block the adrenergic component of 40 nM [3H]Ril binding and non-specific binding 
was measured in the presence of another oxazoline, Bay a6781 (10 microM). Both 
alpha 2A-ARs and I-Rs were broadly, but heterogeneously, distributed. In 
forebrain, high levels of [3H]Ril-labelled alpha 2A-AR sites were observed in 
the anterior olfactory nucleus, the piriform, entorhinal and perirhinal 
cortices, lateral septum, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, several thalamic 
nuclei, the amygdala and the arcuate, dorsomedial and posterior hypothalamic 
nuclei. In hindbrain, alpha 2A-AR sites were concentrated in locus coeruleus, 
lateral parabrachial nucleus, nucleus of the solitary tract and area postrema. 
I-R sites accounted for 50% or more of specific [3H]Ril binding (40 nM) in most 
cortical and hypothalamic nuclei, nucleus of the solitary tract, cranial motor 
nuclei and most spinal cord layers. The highest densities of I-Rs were found in 
the arcuate, dorsomedial and posterior hypothalamic nuclei, the locus coeruleus, 
the area postrema, the cranial motor nuclei and associated with spinal motor 
neurones. A very high concentration of I-Rs was also detected in the pineal 
gland. The distribution of alpha 2-AR sites determined resembled that reported 
with [3H]p-aminoclonidine which appears to specifically label alpha 2-ARs and 
not I1-R sites in rat brain sections, and [3H]methoxyidazoxan which is a 
selective alpha 2-AR antagonist. The regional and cellular distribution of I-R 
binding sites was unlike the distribution of putative I1-R sites labelled by 
[3H]clonidine in human brain, although comparable autoradiographic mapping 
studies in rat brain have not been done using this ligand. The regional and 
cellular distribution of [3H]-labelled I-R binding sites had both similarities 
and differences to that reported using the imidazoline ligand, [3H]idazoxan, 
with common labelling of areas such as area postrema, arcuate and 
interpeduncular nuclei and pineal gland with the two ligands, and differential 
relative binding levels ([3H]Ril > [3H]idazoxan) associated with hippocampal 
pyramidal cells and brainstem and spinal motor neurones.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(95)00083-3
PMID: 7796138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
