1. Brain Res. 1994 Dec 15;666(2):216-22. doi: 10.1016/0006-8993(94)90775-7.

Differential patterns of local cerebral glucose utilisation associated with 
rilmenidine- or B-HT 933-induced hypotension.

Browne SE(1), Macrae IM.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Surgical Institute, University of Glasgow, UK.

The anti-hypertensive drug, rilmenidine, has activity at both 
imidazoline-preferring receptors (IPRs) and alpha 2-adrenoceptors. However, 
available evidence suggests that its hypotensive effect is mediated via central 
IPRs. In the present study, the neuroanatomical regions involved in mediating 
the hypotensive response to rilmenidine were investigated using the 
[14C]2-deoxyglucose in vivo autoradiographic technique to map drug-induced 
changes in glucose utilisation within the CNS of conscious, spontaneously 
hypertensive rats (SHR). The cerebral metabolic effects of rilmenidine were 
compared with those of B-HT 933, a selective, alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist with 
no selectivity for the IPR. Rilmenidine (1 mg/kg, s.c.) and B-HT 933 (2 mg/kg, 
s.c.) both elicited a moderate but significant hypotension (-24 +/- 2 and -18 
+/- 5 mmHg, resp.) and bradycardia (-62 +/- 19.5 and -69 +/- 14 beats/min, 
resp.). [14C]2-deoxyglucose autoradiography, initiated after stabilisation of 
the drug-induced reduction in blood pressure, revealed significant reductions (P 
< 0.05) in local cerebral glucose utilisation (LCGU) in the intermediolateral 
cell column of the spinal cord, area postrema, ventrolateral medulla, nucleus 
tractus solitarius and cuneate nucleus of rilmenidine-treated rats. Rilmenidine 
did not significantly alter LCGU in a number of structures containing high 
densities of alpha 2-adrenoceptors such as nucleus accumbens, locus coeruleus, 
frontal cortex. No significant changes in glucose use were evident in any of the 
26 CNS regions examined following B-HT 933 administration. These results provide 
evidence for the functional involvement of brainstem cardiovascular control 
centres in the central hypotensive effects of rilmenidine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(94)90775-7
PMID: 7882031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
