1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1993 Aug;348(2):134-40. doi: 
10.1007/BF00164789.

Stimulatory effects of clonidine, cirazoline and rilmenidine on locus coeruleus 
noradrenergic neurones: possible involvement of imidazoline-preferring 
receptors.

Pineda J(1), Ugedo L, García-Sevilla JA.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Farmacología, Universidad del País Vasco, Leioa, Bizkaia, 
Spain.

Clonidine and related drugs not only interact with alpha 2-adrenoceptors but 
also recognise non-adrenoceptor sites in the brain. The involvement of these 
imidazoline-preferring receptors in the regulation of the activity of locus 
coeruleus noradrenergic neurones (NA-LC) was investigated after inactivation of 
alpha 2-adrenoceptors with N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline 
(EEDQ). In EEDQ-pretreated rats (6 mg/kg, i.p., 6 h), the characteristic 
inhibitory effect of low doses of clonidine on these neurones was abolished and 
a paradoxical, dose-dependent increase in firing rate was observed at higher 
doses (640-5120 micrograms/kg, i.v.) (ED50 = 702 micrograms/kg, Emax = 83%, n = 
14). Guanfacine (0.3-20 mg/kg) did not modify neuronal activity but antagonised 
the stimulatory effect of clonidine. Cirazoline (80-640 micrograms/kg) and 
rilmenidine (0.3-10 mg/kg) also stimulated neuronal activity (ED50 = 192 
micrograms/kg, Emax = 102%, n = 5; ED50 = 1563 micrograms/kg, Emax = 70%, n = 
1-5, respectively) by an alpha 2-adrenoceptor-independent mechanism. The results 
suggest that these drugs can modulate the activity of locus coeruleus 
noradrenergic neurones through the activation of I1-imidazoline-preferring 
receptors.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00164789
PMID: 7901773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
