1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1993 Dec;348(6):593-600. doi: 
10.1007/BF00167235.

Sympathoinhibition by rilmenidine in conscious rabbits: involvement of alpha 
2-adrenoceptors.

Szabo B(1), Urban R, Starke K.

Author information:
(1)Pharmakologisches Institut, Albert-Ludwigs-Universit√§t, Freiburg, Germany.

Cardiovascular and sympathetic nervous system effects of the mixed alpha 
2-adrenoceptor and imidazoline receptor agonist rilmenidine were studied in 
conscious rabbits chronically instrumented for the recording of the firing rate 
of renal sympathetic fibers. Separate experiments were carried out on pithed 
rabbits with electrically stimulated (2 Hz) sympathetic outflow. Drugs were 
administered intravenously in a cumulative manner. In conscious rabbits, 
rilmenidine 0.1, 0.3 and 1.0 mg kg-1 dose-dependently lowered blood pressure, 
renal sympathetic nerve activity, heart rate and the plasma concentration of 
noradrenaline and adrenaline. The effect on blood pressure and plasma 
catecholamines was maximal after 0.3 mg kg-1 whereas heart rate and renal 
sympathetic nerve activity decreased further after rilmenidine 1.0 mg kg-1. 
Yohimbine 0.1 and 0.5 mg kg-1, when injected subsequently, attenuated and at the 
higher dose abolished all effects of rilmenidine. The effects of rilmenidine 
were also antagonized by the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist 
2-(2,3-dihydro-2-methoxy-1,4-benzodioxin-2-yl)-4,5-dihydro-1H-imid azole HCl 
(RX821002; 0.1 and 0.5 mg kg-1). Yohimbine 0.1 and 0.5 mg kg-1 did not attenuate 
or attenuated only slightly the decrease of heart rate and renal sympathetic 
nerve activity produced by infusion of vasopressin. In pithed rabbits with 
electrically-stimulated sympathetic outflow, yohimbine 0.1 submaximally and 
yohimbine 0.5 mg kg-1 maximally increased the plasma noradrenaline 
concentration. The experiments show by direct measurement of sympathetic nerve 
firing and plasma catecholamines that rilmenidine causes sympathoinhibition in 
conscious rabbits, presumably through central sites of action.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00167235
PMID: 7907776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
