1. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1994 Aug;270(2):572-8.

Is the sympathoinhibitory effect of rilmenidine mediated by alpha-2 
adrenoceptors or imidazoline receptors?

Urban R(1), Szabo B, Starke K.

Author information:
(1)Pharmakologisches Institut, Albert-Ludwigs-Universit√§t, Freiburg, Germany.

The involvement of alpha-2 adrenoceptors or imidazoline-1 receptors in the 
sympathoinhibitory effect of rilmenidine was investigated in conscious rabbits. 
Dose-response curves were determined for the effects of rilmenidine as well as 
of the alpha-2 selective agonist UK 14304 
[5-bromo-6-(2-imidazolin-2-ylamino)-quinoxaline] on blood pressure, heart rate, 
renal postganglionic sympathetic nerve activity and the plasma norepinephrine 
concentration. The interaction with the alpha-2 selective antagonist SK&F 86466 
[6-chloro-N-methyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine] also was studied. 
Rilmenidine (30-1000 micrograms kg-1 i.v.) and UK 14304 (1-30 micrograms kg-1 
i.v.) elicited the same pattern of changes: transient hypertension followed by 
prolonged hypotension, bradycardia, a depression of sympathetic nerve firing and 
a fall in the plasma norepinephrine concentration. The ED50 values for these 
effects increased in the same order for both drugs: plasma norepinephrine fall < 
hypotension < depression of sympathetic nerve firing << bradycardia. 
Pretreatment with SK&F 86466 (3 mg kg-1 i.v. followed by an infusion of 1 mg 
kg-1 hr-1) altered the dose-response curves of rilmenidine and UK 14304 in a 
qualitatively and quantitatively almost identical manner; a rightward shift of 
the hypotensive, sympathoinhibitory and plasma norepinephrine level 
dose-response curves but no change of the dose-response curve for heart rate. 
The similarity of the effects of rilmenidine and UK 14304, and the almost 
identical antagonism of SK&F 86466 against either drug, argue against different 
sites of action of rilmenidine and UK 14304.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 7915315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
