1. Am J Cardiol. 1994 Dec 22;74(13):51A-57A. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90042-6.

Efficacy and safety of rilmenidine in elderly patients--comparison with 
hydrochlorothiazide. The Belgian Multicentre Study Group.

Pelemans W(1), Verhaeghe J, Creytens G, Coupez G, Van Dessel A, Opsomer M, 
Corcoran C.

Author information:
(1)Belgium Multicenter Study Group, Leuven.

The aim of this trial was to study the treatment of hypertension in the elderly, 
comparing a new oxazoline antihypertensive agent, rilmenidine, with the diuretic 
hydrochlorothiazide (HCZ). After 2 weeks on placebo, 88 elderly patients (mean 
age 75 years; 65 women), corresponding to strict inclusion criteria, were 
randomized to 8 weeks double-blind monotherapy with rilmenidine 1-2 mg/day (n = 
46) or HCZ 25-50 mg/day (n = 42), with administration of potassium supplements 
as required. Particular emphasis was placed on the evaluation of safety: blood 
screens were repeated after 2, 4, and 8 weeks of treatment and symptoms were 
systematically evaluated every 2 weeks. The rilmenidine and HCZ groups were 
comparable at randomization, with baseline supine systolic/diastolic blood 
pressures of 167/101 mm Hg and 172/101 mm Hg, respectively. Both drugs induced a 
significant decrease in blood pressure: at 8 weeks, supine blood pressure had 
decreased to 154/89 mm Hg and to 155/87 mm Hg in the rilmenidine and HCZ groups, 
respectively (difference not significant between groups). Changes in heart rate 
did not differ significantly between groups (-3 bpm at 8 weeks). Drug-related 
symptoms were rare and the incidence was similar in both groups. Weight 
decreased significantly in the HCZ group by 1 kg (p < 0.001) and did not change 
in the rilmenidine group. After 8 weeks of monotherapy, expected variations in 
serum biochemistry were detected in the HCZ group, resulting in a significant 
difference in comparison with the rilmenidine group: serum potassium and 
chloride decreased significantly and uric acid levels increased significantly in 
the HCZ group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90042-6
PMID: 7998586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
