1. Am J Cardiol. 1994 Dec 22;74(13):36A-42A. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90040-x.

Effects of one-year treatment with rilmenidine on systemic hypertension-induced 
left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertensive patients.

Trimarco B(1), Rosiello G, Sarno D, Lorino G, Rubattu S, DeLuca N, Volpe M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, Federico II University, 
Naples, Italy.

In patients with essential hypertension, left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) 
increases the risk for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Thus its reversal 
represents one of the principal end-points of antihypertensive treatment. We 
assessed the cardiovascular effects of 1-year antihypertensive treatment with 
rilmenidine (1 or 2 mg/day orally), a new oxazoline with a potent 
antihypertensive action that acts selectively through imidazoline-preferring 
receptors. In 11 hypertensive patients (mean age, 49 +/- 2 years) with LVH, we 
measured systemic hemodynamics, large artery compliance, cardiac anatomy, and 
endocrine function. Patients underwent M-mode and 2-dimensional echocardiography 
as well as Doppler and peripheral pulsed Doppler flowmetry, determination of 
plasma atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) levels and renin activity (PRA), and of 
24-hour urinary electrolyte and creatinine excretion in control conditions 
(systolic/diastolic blood pressure, 148 +/- 3/102 +/- 1 mm Hg), 4 weeks after 
blood pressure normalization (131 +/- 2/84 +/- 2 mm Hg; p < 0.01), after 1 year 
of satisfactory antihypertensive treatment (142 +/- 3/90 +/- 1 mm Hg; p < 0.01) 
and, finally, 1 month after therapy withdrawal (155 +/- 3/106 +/- 2 mm Hg; 
difference not significant [NS]). One-year of rilmenidine treatment induced an 
improvement in brachial artery compliance (from 0.92 +/- 0.06 to 1.16 +/- 0.08 
cm4/dyne; p < 0.05), which persisted after withdrawal of treatment (1.17 +/- 
0.06 cm4/dyne; p < 0.05). LVH was reversed after 1 year of rilmenidine treatment 
(from 152 +/- 5 to 131 +/- 4 g/m2 body surface area; p < 0.05).(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90040-x
PMID: 7998584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
