1. Am J Cardiol. 1994 Dec 22;74(13):58A-65A. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90043-4.

Long-term control of blood pressure by rilmenidine in high-risk populations.

Pillion G(1), Fevrier B, Codis P, Schutz D.

Author information:
(1)I.R.I.S., Courbevoie, France.

Efficacy and acceptability of rilmenidine in populations with high 
cardiovascular risk has been established in short- or mid-term studies (1.5-6 
months) enrolling relatively small numbers of patients. The present open study 
was undertaken to compare, on a larger scale, the efficacy and acceptability of 
a 12-month rilmenidine treatment in high-risk outpatients versus the results 
obtained in the general population and to check for unexpected adverse events. A 
total of 2,635 hypertensive patients (supine diastolic blood pressure [SDBP] > 
90 mm Hg) were enrolled, including a high-risk population with 1,591 patients 
aged > 60 (60.3%), 1,007 patients with dyslipidemia (38.2%), 393 with diabetes 
(14.9%), 328 with chronic renal failure (12.4%), 301 with angina pectoris 
(11.4%), and 84 with chronic heart failure (3.2%). All patients were treated by 
rilmenidine 1 mg/day during the first 6 weeks; then (at 1.5 months), if SDBP was 
> 90 mm Hg, dosage of rilmenidine was 1 mg twice daily during the following 6 
weeks. From month 3 to month 12, any other antihypertensive drugs could be added 
if SDBP remained > 90 mm Hg. In comparison with the general population, the 
percentage of high-risk patients whose monotherapy normalized blood pressure 
(SDBP < or = 90 mm Hg) was slightly lower at month 1.5 (58-66%, according to the 
risk group, vs 68% in the general population) and month 3 (73-82% vs 85%). At 
month 12, all treatments taken as a whole (monotherapy and combination therapy) 
led to the normalization of blood pressure in 94% of patients in the general 
population and in populations at risk.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90043-4
PMID: 7998587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
