1. Am J Cardiol. 1994 Dec 22;74(13):31A-35A. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90039-6.

The high-risk hypertensive patient and the potential for brain imidazoline 
receptor binding by rilmenidine.

Laragh JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Center, New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, New York 
10021.

It is a fact that sympathetic outflow is a player in most, if not all, 
hypertensive conditions. A selective, effective, and relatively benign means of 
controlling it remains high on every clinician's wish list. In this supplement 
we examine the neurobiologic and pharmacologic evidence that the wish is nearing 
fulfillment. Recent evidence has documented the existence of nonadrenergic 
receptors in the brainstem, other than the well-known alpha 2-adrenergic 
receptors, that bind the imidazoline portion of vasoactive molecules. 
Pharmacologic science has wasted little time in developing compounds rich in 
imidazoline-like structures that, by supplanting norepinephrine (the natural 
cerebral neurotransmitter for sympathetic nervous system outflow) quiet 
sympathetic outflow, restrain heart rate and vasomotor influence, and reduce the 
negative quality-of-life effects induced by earlier centrally acting agents. 
This is because specific ligands for the imidazoline-preferring receptors appear 
to lower blood pressure without attendant drowsiness, dry mouth, and impaired 
mentation. Rilmenidine, the subject of this supplement, is the newest such 
agent, and the scientists involved in its development and clinical trials have 
produced heartening data. These developments presage good news in the clinic, 
and I am excited by their potential, particularly that for gaining deeper 
insight into human pressor phenomena.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90039-6
PMID: 7998583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
