1. Am J Cardiol. 1994 Dec 22;74(13):3A-6A. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90035-3.

Role of imidazoline receptors in cardiovascular regulation.

Dontenwill M(1), Tibiriça E, Greney H, Bennaï F, Feldman J, Stutzmann J, Bricca 
G, Belcourt A, Bousquet P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Pharmacologie Cardiovasculaire et Rénale, CNRS URA 589, 
Faculté de Médecine, Université Louis Pasteur, Strasbourg, France.

The involvement of nonadrenergic imidazoline specific receptors in the central 
control of the vasomotor tone and in the mechanism of action of drugs bearing an 
imidazoline structure, or analogs, is now well documented. Imidazoline-specific 
binding sites were found in many tissues and species. Moreover, until now, it is 
only in the brainstem that such binding sites are associated with a function: 
the hypotensive effect of imidazoline-like drugs. Rilmenidine, which is an 
oxazoline structurally related to the reference imidazolines, exerts a central 
hypotensive effect of central origin involving imidazoline receptors. The 
selectivity of rilmenidine for the imidazoline receptors compared to alpha 
2-adrenergic receptors could explain the low incidence of sedative side effects 
observed with this antihypertensive drug. A specific anti-imidazoline 
radioimmunoassay allowed us to detect the presence of an immunoreactive 
imidazoline-like substance in human sera. High levels of this immunoreactive 
substance are associated with high blood pressure in 20-30% of the hypertensive 
patients. This observation indicates that high levels of this immunoreactive 
substance in the serum can be associated with some kinds of primary 
hypertension. The cause-and-effect relation between these 2 phenomena has not 
yet been determined. This substance is in process of purification; it could be a 
candidate to be an endogenous ligand of the imidazoline receptors.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90035-3
PMID: 7998582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
