1. Am J Cardiol. 1994 Dec 22;74(13):43A-50A. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90041-8.

Pharmacokinetics of rilmenidine in patients with chronic renal insufficiency and 
in hemodialysis patients.

Aparicio M(1), Dratwa M, el Esper N, Fillastre JP, Levaltier B, Lins R, Meyrier 
A, Mignon F, Ryckelynck JP, Sennesael J.

Author information:
(1)Service de Nephrologie, CHU de Rouen, France.

The pharmacokinetics of rilmenidine (1 mg orally) was studied in 3 groups of 
patients with stable chronic renal insufficiency. This was an open, single-blind 
study following a single administration, and after 15 days of treatment. Group 1 
included 11 patients with a creatinine clearance between 15 and 80 mL/min. Group 
2 included 17 patients with a creatinine clearance < 15 mL/min. Group III 
included 10 hemodialysis patients. In patients with chronic renal failure, total 
plasma clearance and renal clearance of rilmenidine decreased; terminal 
half-life was 30-42 hours, which is clearly longer than previous values achieved 
in healthy volunteers. After repeated administration (1 mg daily in group 1, 1 
mg every other day in group 2, 1 mg at the end of each dialysis session in group 
3), the area under the curve was significantly increased, corresponding to drug 
accumulation. The steady state was reached after 6 days in patients in group 1 
and after 8 days in patients in group 2. The pharmacokinetics of rilmenidine was 
linear since the terminal elimination half-life and renal clearance were not 
significantly different after single and repeated administration of rilmenidine. 
A positive correlation was found between rilmenidine total plasma clearance and 
creatinine clearance, and between rilmenidine renal clearance and creatinine 
clearance. Mean rilmenidine hemodialysance was 85 mL/min, that is, 26% of the 
rilmenidine renal clearance value achieved in healthy volunteers (330 mL/min). 
Thus, the following dosage schedule can be proposed. In patients whose 
creatinine clearance ranges between 15 and 80 mL/min, a 1 mg dose every day can 
be recommended.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90041-8
PMID: 7998585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
