1. Am J Cardiol. 1994 Dec 22;74(13):20A-24A. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90037-x.

Natriuretic effect of rilmenidine in anesthetized rats.

Kline RL(1), van der Mark J, Cechetto DF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Western Ontario, Robarts Research 
Institute, London, Canada.

Rilmenidine binds to alpha 2-adrenoceptors and imidazoline receptors in the 
central nervous system and the kidney. To test the hypothesis that rilmenidine 
would increase sodium excretion, renal function was studied in rats with 
innervated and denervated kidneys to distinguish between indirect (via renal 
sympathetic nerves) and direct effects of rilmenidine on the kidney. Standard 
clearance techniques were used in Wistar rats anesthetized with thiobutabarbital 
to measure renal function during 80 minutes of infusion of 0.9% NaCl or 
rilmenidine (20 or 50 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 intravenously). Snares on abdominal 
arteries were used to offset hypotension induced by rilmenidine. Heart rate 
decreased by 80-120 beats/min with either dose of rilmenidine. At 20 
micrograms.kg-1.min-1, rilmenidine increased total and fractional excretion of 
sodium and clearance of osmoles while decreasing free water clearance from 
innervated kidneys. There were no changes in these variables in chronically 
denervated kidneys. Direct recording of renal sympathetic nerve activity showed 
a progressive, marked decrease in nerve activity during the low-dose infusion of 
rilmenidine. At 50 micrograms.kg-1.min-1, rilmenidine produced a differential 
effect on the clearance of osmoles by innervated and denervated kidneys but both 
kidneys had an increase in free water clearance. The data indicate that 
rilmenidine increases sodium excretion indirectly in anesthetized rats by 
decreasing renal sympathetic nerve activity. At doses and infusion periods used 
in these studies, there was no evidence for a direct effect of rilmenidine on 
sodium excretion. The increase in free water clearance seen with the high dose 
of rilmenidine suggests that the inhibitory effect of alpha 2-adrenoceptor 
activation on vasopressin is involved at this dose.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90037-x
PMID: 7998580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
