1. Br J Pharmacol. 1994 May;112(1):200-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1476-5381.1994.tb13052.x.

Attenuated renal response to moxonidine and rilmenidine in one kidney-one clip 
hypertensive rats.

Li P(1), Penner SB, Smyth DD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.

1. I1 non-adrenoceptor, imidazoline receptor agonists, such as moxonidine, 
increase urine flow rate and sodium excretion following infusion into the renal 
artery. The functions of these agonists in genetic and acquired models of 
hypertension have not been determined. 2. We therefore studied the renal effects 
of two known non-adrenoceptor, imidazoline receptor agonists, rilmenidine and 
moxonidine, in 1K-1C hypertensive and 1K-sham normotensive rats. Rilmenidine (0, 
3, 10, 30 nmol kg-1 min-1) or moxonidine (0, 1, 3, 10 nmol kg-1 min-1) was 
infused directly into the renal artery (30 gauge needle) of 1K-sham normotensive 
and 1K-1C hypertensive rats. 3. In 1K-sham normotensive rats, rilmenidine and 
moxonidine produced dose related increases in urine flow rate, sodium excretion 
and osmolar clearance. Both rilmenidine and moxonidine failed to increase urine 
flow rate, sodium excretion and osmolar clearance in 1K-1C hypertensive rats to 
the same extent as in 1K-sham animals. At comparable doses, rilmenidine had no 
effect, while moxonidine (3 and 10 nmol kg-1 min-1) did result in a small 
increase in urine volume and osmolar clearance which was less than that observed 
in the 1K sham control animals. 4. These studies indicate that the renal effects 
of non-adrenoceptor, imidazoline receptor stimulation are diminished in 1K-1C 
hypertensive rats compared with 1K-sham normotensive rats. Whether this decrease 
in activity of the natriuretic non-adrenoceptor, imidazoline receptors 
contributes to the increase in blood pressure in the 1K-1C acquired model of 
hypertension remains to be determined.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1994.tb13052.x
PMCID: PMC1910300
PMID: 8032642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
