1. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 1994 Mar;8 Suppl 1:27-41. doi: 10.1007/BF00877082.

A novel mechanism of action for hypertension control: moxonidine as a selective 
I1-imidazoline agonist.

Ernsberger P(1), Haxhiu MA, Graff LM, Collins LA, Dreshaj I, Grove DL, Graves 
ME, Sch√§fer SG, Christen MO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Case Western Reserve School of Medicine, Cleveland, 
Ohio 44106-4982.

Sympathoadrenal inhibition by a direct action within the central nervous system 
is an advantageous route to blood pressure control. Stimulation of brain alpha 
2-adrenergic receptors is one mechanism for sympathoadrenal suppression, but 
comes at the cost of nonspecific depression of CNS function, including sedation 
and decreased salivary flow. Evidence is accumulating for a second pathway for 
pharmacological control of sympathoadrenal outflow, mediated by a novel receptor 
specific for imidazolines. First-generation central antihypertensive agents, 
which are imidazolines such as clonidine, act primarily to stimulate these 
I1-imidazoline receptors in the rostral ventrolateral medulla oblongata (RVLM) 
to lower blood pressure, but have sufficient agonism at alpha 2-adrenergic 
receptors to produce side effects. Second-generation centrally acting 
antihypertensive agents, such as moxonidine and rilmenidine, are selective for 
I1 relative to alpha 2 receptors. The reduced alpha 2 potency of these agents 
correlates with reduced severity of side effects. In this study we further 
established the selectivity of moxonidine for I1-imidazoline sites by 
characterizing the direct interaction of [3H]moxonidine with these receptors in 
the RVLM and in adrenomedullary chromaffin cells. [3H]Moxonidine preferentially 
labeled I1-imidazoline sites relative to alpha 2-adrenergic sites, only a small 
portion of which were labeled in the RVLM. [3H]Moxonidine binding to 
I1-imidazoline sites was modulated by guanine nucleotides, implying that 
I1-imidazoline sites may be membrane receptors coupled to guanine nucleotide 
binding regulatory proteins (G proteins). Receptor autoradiography with 
[125I]p-iodoclonidine confirmed the presence of I1-imidazoline sites in the RVLM 
and other areas of the brainstem reticular formation. In contrast, alpha 
2-adrenergic sites were mainly localized to the nucleus of the solitary tract. 
Moxonidine selectively displaced [125I]p-iodoclonidine binding from reticular 
areas, including the RVLM. In vivo studies in SHR rats confirmed the ability of 
moxonidine to normalize hypertension by an action within the RVLM and confirmed 
the correspondence of I1 binding affinity and antihypertensive efficacy. We also 
discuss prior literature on the cardiovascular pharmacology of imidazolines, 
reinterpreting previous studies that only considered alpha-adrenergic 
mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00877082
PMID: 8068578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
