1. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 1994 Mar;8 Suppl 1:21-6. doi: 10.1007/BF00877081.

Historic aspects in the identification of the I1 receptor and the pharmacology 
of imidazolines.

Dominiak P(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacology, Medical University of LÃ¼beck, Germany.

The central nervous system is involved in the control of arterial blood 
pressure. Stimulation of central alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the nucleus tractus 
solitarii (NTS) decreases sympathetic outflow, resulting in a fall in arterial 
blood pressure. One of the first antihypertensive substances with actions on the 
alpha 2-adrenoceptors of the NTS was alpha-methylnoradrenaline. Later on the 
imidazoline clonidine was developed for which numerous effects, mediated by 
alpha 2-adrenoceptors, in the CNS could be demonstrated. Since the centrally 
acting alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists possess severe side effects, the 
development of more specific and selective centrally acting imidazolines 
resulted in the derivatives moxonidine and rilmenidine. The effects of the 
"second-generation imidazolines" could not be fully understood as alpha 
2-adrenoceptor agonists. In the meantime, the rostral ventrolateral medulla 
(RVLM) has been identified as the site of action of the imidazolines and an 
I1-imidazoline binding site was characterized in this region. For the 
antihypertensive action of the imidazolines, agonism at the I1-imidazoline 
subtype seems to be responsible. In addition, an acid- and heat-stable 
endogenous substance, called clonidine displacing substance (CDS), was reported 
to bind at the putative I receptor. In 1992 a receptor protein for I receptors 
(70 kD) could be separated that is different from that of alpha 2-adrenoceptors. 
However, up to now we are still lacking the amino-acid sequence of the I 
receptor and its second messenger system.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00877081
PMID: 8068577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
