1. Br J Pharmacol. 1993 Jul;109(3):625-31. doi:
10.1111/j.1476-5381.1993.tb13618.x.

[3H]-idazoxan binding to rabbit cerebral cortex recognises multiple imidazoline 
I2-type receptors: pharmacological characterization and relationship to 
monoamine oxidase.

Renouard A(1), Widdowson PS, Cordi A.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Recherches Servier, Surenes, France.

1. In rabbit cerebral cortical homogenates, saturation analysis of 
[3H]-idazoxan, an alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, revealed high affinity 
binding to a single site with high density. Competition experiments demonstrated 
that the [3H]-idazoxan recognition site was insensitive to the catecholamines, 
adrenaline and noradrenaline and possessed a low affinity for the alpha 2- and 
alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonists, rauwolscine, yohimbine and prazosin, 
suggesting that the site was not an adrenoceptor. Mapping [3H]-idazoxan binding 
sites in the forebrain of rabbits by autoradiography, showed high densities of 
I2 sites in the medial preoptic area and in the stria terminalis. Moderate 
binding was found in caudate nucleus, putamen, cerebral cortex and hippocampus. 
2. The imidazolines cirazoline, naphazoline, guanabenz and BRL44408 along with 
amiloride, which is structurally related to the imidazolines, all had high 
affinity for the [3H]-idazoxan site, suggesting that the site was related to the 
I2 imidazoline-recognition site described by other groups. However, the 
imidazolines, clonidine and UK-14,304 and the structurally related rilmenidine 
all had a low affinity for the binding site, showing that [3H]-idazoxan was not 
binding to the I1 imidazoline-recognition site found in rat, bovine and human 
medulla oblongata. 3. Naphazoline, guanabenz, clonidine and amiloride 
competition studies had Hill slopes which were significantly different from 
unity (P < 0.01) and computer analysis showed that the [3H]-idazoxan binding 
data could be best fitted to a model which considers binding to two sites (P < 
0.01). One site has a high affinity for idazoxan, cirazoline, naphazoline, 
guanabenz and amiloride and a moderate affinity for BRL44408 and clonidine (70% 
of binding) and the second site (30% of binding) has a high affinity for 
idazoxan and cirazoline, but a lower affinity for naphazoline, guanabenz, 
amiloride,BRL44408 and clonidine.4. Experiments using [3H]-RX821002, in contrast 
to [3H]-idazoxan, clearly demonstrated the presence ofa single type of 
alpha2-adrenoceptor in rabbit cortex with a pharmacological profile which is 
similar to the alpha2A-adrenoceptor possessing a high affinity for yohimbine, 
rauwolscine, BRL44408 and oxymetazoline,but a lower affinity for prazosin.5. The 
monoamine oxidase inhibitors, clorgyline, pargyline and deprenyl had at least a 
ten fold lower affinity at the rabbirt cortex I2 site as compared to their known 
affinity at monoamine oxidase suggesting that the I2 site is not related to the 
active site of the enzyme, monoamine oxidase. In addition, the peripheral 
benzodiazepine ligands, PK-11195 or Ro 5-4864 both had very low affinities at 
the I2 site in rabbit cortex suggesting that the [3H]-idazoxan binding was not 
to the peripheral benzodiazepine binding site.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1993.tb13618.x
PMCID: PMC2175647
PMID: 8102932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
