1. Life Sci. 1994;54(22):PL381-7. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(94)00616-4.

Cardiac electrophysiological effects of rilmenidine, a novel antihypertensive 
agent, in the conscious dog: comparison with clonidine.

Boucher M(1), Dubar M, Chassaing C, Vivet P, DuchÃªne-Marullaz P.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U.195, Faculty of Medicine, Clermont-Ferrand, France.

The cardiac electrophysiological effects of rilmenidine, a novel 
antihypertensive agent, and clonidine were studied in the conscious dog. Sinus 
rate, corrected sinus recovery time (CSRT) and Wenckebach point (WP) were 
measured in seven intact dogs. Atrial rate and atrial effective refractory 
period (AERP) were measured in six atrioventricular (AV)-blocked dogs with 
ventricular pacing. In both groups, blood pressure was also monitored. Each dog 
received with at least a three-day interval rilmenidine as dihydrogen phosphate 
and clonidine as hydrochloride in four successive intravenous injections, 30 min 
apart. In intact dogs, rilmenidine was administered at 50, 50, 100 and 200 
micrograms/kg and clonidine at 2.5, 2.5, 5 and 10 micrograms/kg. In AV-blocked 
dogs, doses of rilmenidine were 25, 25, 50 and 100 micrograms/kg, those of 
clonidine 5, 5, 10 and 20 micrograms/kg. Rilmenidine and clonidine decreased 
sinus rate and atrial rate from the first dose. In this regard, rilmenidine was 
respectively 24 and 23 times less potent than clonidine. A lengthening of CSRT 
was observed at all doses with rilmenidine and at the last three doses with 
clonidine (ratio: 17) and a lowering of WP at all doses with rilmenidine and 
clonidine (ratio: 22). A shortening of AERP was also seen with rilmenidine and 
clonidine from the second dose (ratio: 6). All these effects may at least partly 
be explained by a cholinergic activation mechanism. In intact dogs both drugs 
produced a lowering of mean blood pressure (ratio: 17), whereas in AV-blocked 
dogs, in which ventricular rate was kept constant by pacing, pressure effects 
were more complex, being the resultant of hypotensive and hypertensive effects, 
the latter due to alpha vascular stimulation. Taken together, these results 
indicate that in the conscious dog, rilmenidine and clonidine exert 
qualitatively identical electrophysiological effects, but with different potency 
ratios.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(94)00616-4
PMID: 8177003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
