1. Pharmacol Toxicol. 1993 Aug;73(2):86-90. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0773.1993.tb01541.x.

Detomidine binding to guinea pig liver imidazoline receptors (I-receptors) shows 
marked positive cooperativity.

Rangel N(1), Uhlén S, Wikberg JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Umeå University, Sweden.

The binding of [3H]-idazoxan to guinea pig liver membranes was measured in the 
presence of 3 microM rauwolscine, which prevented the binding [3H]-idazoxan to 
alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. Under these conditions the radioligand bound to 
saturable imidazoline receptors (I-receptors) with a Kd of 18 nM and a Bmax of 
665 fmol mg-1 protein. Six drugs which were used to compete for [3H]-idazoxan in 
the liver caused competition curves of widely varying steepness. Fitting the 
competition curves to the standard four parameter logistic function showed that 
the Hill coefficients (nH) varied from 2.02 (detomidine) to 0.43 (UK-14,304), 
The nH's obtained in liver for the six compounds correlated strongly (r = 0.99; 
P < 0.001) with the corresponding nH's obtained in a previous study on the 
guinea pig kidney where the drugs were also tested in competition with 
[3H]-idazoxan (Wikberg et al. 1992). Good correlation was also found for the 
Log(Ki) values of drugs determined in the two tissues (r = 0.96; P < 0.005). 
Whereas the standard logistic function accurately described the competition 
curves of the 5 drugs tested in the liver for which the competition curve Hill 
coefficients varied between 0.43 to 1.41 (UK-14,304, rilmenidine, histamine and 
d- and l-medetomidine), it did not accurately fit the detomidine competition 
curves. Instead the detomidine competition curves could be more accurately 
described by a model composed of the sum of two independent logistic 
functions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0773.1993.tb01541.x
PMID: 8248011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
