1. Br J Pharmacol. 1993 Dec;110(4):1537-43. doi: 
10.1111/j.1476-5381.1993.tb13998.x.

Relevance of the use of [3H]-clonidine to identify imidazoline receptors in the 
rabbit brainstem.

Bricca G(1), Zhang J, Greney H, Dontenwill M, Stutzmann J, Belcourt A, Bousquet 
P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Pharmacologie Cardiovasculaire et Rénale, CNRS URA 589, 
Faculté de Médecine, Université Louis Pasteur, Strasbourg, France.

1. [3H]-clonidine binding was investigated in membranes isolated from the 
ventral medulla oblongata of the rabbit, where clonidine produced a hypotensive 
effect which was not mediated by adrenoceptors. [3H]-clonidine specific binding, 
as defined by the difference between the binding of [3H]-clonidine in the 
presence and in the absence of 10 microM cirazoline, occurred at two sites: a 
high affinity site with a KD = 2.9 +/- 0.7 nM and a Bmax of 40 +/- 8 fmol mg-1 
protein and a low affinity site with a KD = 18.2 +/- 0.4 nM and a Bmax of 66 +/- 
14 fmol mg-1 protein. 2. The high affinity sites being catecholamine-sensitive 
were identified as alpha 2-adrenoceptors. The low affinity binding of 
[3H]-clonidine was insensitive to catecholamines, as well as to other alpha 
2-adrenoceptor specific probes, and could be inhibited with high affinity only 
by compounds which lowered blood pressure when directly injected in the nucleus 
reticularis lateralis of the ventral brainstem, or by antagonists. 3. It was 
concluded that in the ventral medulla of the rabbit, [3H]-clonidine labelled 
alpha 2-adrenoceptors and imidazoline receptors (IRs). Only the latter were 
related to the hypotensive effects of clonidine and rilmenidine directly 
injected into the rostroventrolateral medulla oblongata (RVLM) of the rabbit. 
The methodological problems regarding the study of IRs with [3H]-clonidine are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1993.tb13998.x
PMCID: PMC2175872
PMID: 8306099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
