1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1993 Jul;348(1):70-6. doi: 
10.1007/BF00168539.

Binding of [3H]clonidine to I1-imidazoline sites in bovine adrenal medullary 
membranes.

Molderings GJ(1), Moura D, Fink K, Bönisch H, Göthert M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Bonn, Germany.

Imidazolines bind with high affinity not only to alpha-adrenoceptors but also to 
specific imidazoline binding sites (IBS) labelled by either [3H]clonidine or 
[3H]idazoxan and termed I1- and I2-IBS, respectively. Since bovine adrenal 
chromaffin cells lack alpha 2-adrenoceptors, we investigated the pharmacological 
characteristics of [3H]clonidine binding sites in the bovine adrenal medulla. 
The binding of [3H]clonidine was rapid, reversible, partly specific (as defined 
by naphazoline 0.1 mmol/l; 55% specific binding at [3H]clonidine 10 nmol/l), 
saturable and of high affinity. The specific binding of [3H]clonidine to bovine 
adrenal medullary membranes was concentration-dependently inhibited by various 
imidazolines, guanidines and an oxazoline derivative but not, or with negligible 
affinity, by rauwolscine and (-)-adrenaline. In most cases, the competition 
curves were best fitted to a two-site model. The rank order of affinity for the 
high affinity site (in a few cases the single detectable site) was as follows: 
naphazoline > or = BDF 7579 (4-chloro-2-isoindolinyl guanidine) > or = clonidine 
> or = cirazoline > or = BDF 6143 
(4-chloro-2-(2-imidazoline-2-ylamino)-isoindoline hydrochloride) > BDF 7572 
(4,7-chloro-2-(2-imidazolin-2-ylamino)-isoindoline) > moxonidine = rilmenidine > 
BDF 6100 (2-(2-imidazoline-2-ylamino)-isoindoline) = idazoxan > phentolamine > 
aganodine = guanabenz > amiloride > histamine. This rank order is compatible 
with the pharmacological properties of the I1-IBS. The non-hydrolysable 
GTP-analogue Gpp(NH)p (5'guanylylimidodiphosphate; 100 mumol/l) inhibited 
specific [3H]clonidine binding by about 50%. Equilibrium [3H]clonidine binding 
was also significantly reduced by K+ and Mg2+.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00168539
PMID: 8377842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
