1. Neurochem Int. 1993 Feb;22(2):153-63. doi: 10.1016/0197-0186(93)90008-s.

Heterogeneity of the specific imidazoline binding of [3H]idazoxan in the human 
cerebral cortex.

Bricca G(1), Greney H, Dontenwill-Kieffer M, Zhang J, Belcourt A, Bousquet P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Pharmacologie cardiovasculaire et rénale, CNRS URA589, Faculté 
de Médecine, Université Louis Pasteur, Strasbourg, France.

The aim of the present study was to verify whether [3H]idazoxan can be 
considered as a highly selective ligand for imidazoline preferring receptors 
(IPR). In human frontal cortex membrane preparations [3H]idazoxan at a low 
concentration (2 nM) only labelled imidazoline sensitive, catecholamine 
insensitive sites. Binding was of high affinity, saturable and stereospecific. 
The rank order of potency of different compounds able to inhibit this binding 
was cirazoline > (+/-)-idazoxan > guanoxan > (-)-idazoxan > tolazoline > 
UK-14304 > clonidine. Amiloride, imidazol-4-acetic acid and histamine had no 
significant affinity for IPR labelled by [3H]idazoxan. [3H]idazoxan bound to 2 
different sites (KD1 = 1 nM and KD2 = 16.4 nM). Clonidine behaved as a non 
competitive, non allosteric inhibitor of [3H]idazoxan binding. Both [3H]idazoxan 
binding sites were equally affected by clonidine. In membrane preparations 
obtained from the Nucleus Reticularis Lateralis region (NRL) of the brainstem, 
[3H]idazoxan binding was similar to that in cortical membranes, particularly 
with regard to specificity and kinetics. However, in the NRL region binding 
sites were 4-5 times more numerous than in the frontal cortex. Non linear 
analyses of saturation data obtained with NRL membrane preparations were 
compatible with both a one site and a two sites model. No significant effects of 
1 mM MgCl2 alone or with 100 microM Gpp(NH)p were observed on either 
[3H]idazoxan binding or the competition with clonidine or rilmenidine. As in the 
cortical membrane, clonidine was a non competitive inhibitor of [3H]idazoxan 
binding to membranes from the NRL region. In conclusion, we show that when a low 
concentration is used, [3H]idazoxan binding to human brain involves sites almost 
completely insensitive to catecholamines and specific for imidazolines or 
related compounds. This binding involves two distinct sites. We also report that 
[3H]idazoxan imidazoline binding sites are not coupled with a G protein. Because 
of the non competitive interaction between clonidine and [3H]idazoxan for the 
binding sites of the latter, we are unable to conclude that the binding sites of 
the two drugs are identical. However, the non competitive, non allosteric 
interaction suggests a complex model of multiple binding sites.

DOI: 10.1016/0197-0186(93)90008-s
PMID: 8439769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
