1. Presse Med. 1995 Dec 9;24(38):1857-64.

[Pharmaco-epidemiologic evaluation of rilmenidine in 18,235 hypertensive 
patients].

[Article in French]

Luccioni R(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Cardiologie, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de la Timone, Chemin 
de l'ArmÃ©e d'Afrique, Marseille.

OBJECTIVES: Assess the effects of rilmenidine in routine clinical practice.
METHODS: 18,235 patients with high blood pressure--mean age 61.2 years, arterial 
systolic pressure in supine position (SSP) over arterial diastolic pressure in 
supine position (SDP) at day 0: 174.58 +/- 0.12/101.51 +/- 0.06 mmHg--were 
followed by 2,072 general physicians. Treatment was initiated with a daily dose 
of 1 mg rilmenidine which was adapted as needed at different times in the study. 
At inclusion, diastolic pressure was between 90 and 115 mmHg in 84.5% of the 
patients; 1,126 patients had severe hypertension (SDP > or = 115 mmHg); 16,496 
of these patients (81.5%) were followed for one year.
RESULTS: Mean fall in blood pressure between day 0 and month 12 was -28.7/-19.3 
mmHg in the overall study population and -27.4/-18.9 mmHg in patients treated 
with 1 mg/day. Mean fall in blood pressure was comparable in the 8 risk 
populations identified. The percentage of patients who achieved normalized blood 
pressure status was 96.2% (SDP < or = 90 mmHg); 59.1% with a 1 mg daily dose, 
23.7% with 2 mg/day, 11.6% with two-drug treatment and 1.8% with three-drug 
treatment. Acceptability, taking into account all possible imputabilities (more 
than 35,000 coprescriptions) and associated diseases, the incidence of 
undesirable side effects never exceeded 5.6% of the overall study population 
(5.2% in single-drug treatment, 8.3% in two- or three-drug treatment) and only 
3.6% of the patients withdrew from the study due to an undesirable effect 
whether imputable to the treatment or not. There was little change in heart rate 
(mean--3 beats per minute between day 0 and month 12); variations observed 
depended on the rate at study onset. Laboratory tests (blood glucose, 
cholesterol, triglycerides, potassium, creatinine, uric acid) were not changed 
in any of the population groups.
CONCLUSIONS: This pharmaco-epidemiologic study showed that the 
benefit/acceptability ratio for rilmenidine is quite satisfactory and confirms 
the contribution of rilmenidine as first line treatment for hypertension.

PMID: 8545441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
