1. Br J Pharmacol. 1995 Sep;116(1):1557-70. doi: 
10.1111/j.1476-5381.1995.tb16373.x.

Renal effects of infusion of rilmenidine and guanabenz in conscious dogs: 
contribution of peripheral and central nervous system alpha 2-adrenoceptors.

Evans RG(1), Anderson WP.

Author information:
(1)Emily E. E. Stewart Renal Laboratory, Baker Medical Research Institute, 
Prahran, Victoria, Australia.

1. We tested the renal effects of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists, rilmenidine 
and guanabenz and the antagonists, 2-methoxyidazoxan and idazoxan, in conscious 
dogs. Our aim was to test the hypothesis that putative imidazoline (I) receptors 
influence renal function. We reasoned that since rilmenidine and guanabenz are 
selective for I1- and I2-binding sites respectively, an influence of one of 
these receptive sites on renal function would be reflected in qualitative 
differences between the effects of these agents. Moreover, effects mediated by 
putative I-receptors should be relatively resistant to antagonism by the 
selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, 2-methoxyidazoxan. Since the effects 
of these drugs on renal function could be mediated in the central nervous system 
or periphery, the dogs were studied under both normal and ganglion-blocked 
conditions. 2. In dogs with intact autonomic reflexes, 2-methoxyidazoxan (15 
micrograms kg-1 plus 0.6 micrograms kg-1 min-1) produced effects consistent with 
a generalized increase in sympathetic drive, including increases in mean 
arterial pressure and plasma renin activity, and a reduction in sodium 
excretion. In ganglion-blocked dogs, 2-methoxyidazoxan reduced sodium excretion 
but had no discernible effect on systemic or renal haemodynamics. We conclude 
that an alpha 2-adrenoceptor-mediated mechanism in the central nervous system 
tonically inhibits sympathetic drive in the conscious dog. 3. In 
ganglion-blocked dogs idazoxan (3-300 micrograms kg-1) dose-dependently 
increased arterial pressure. This was not abolished by concomitant 
administration of 2-methoxyidazoxan (0.3-30 micrograms kg-1). The pressor effect 
of idazoxan is therefore probably mediated by an agonist action at alpha 
1-adrenoceptors. 4. The effects of infusions of rilmenidine (0.1-1.0 mg kg-1) 
and guanabenz (10-100 micrograms kg-1) were indistinguishable. They comprised 
dose-dependent increases in mean arterial pressure, urine excretion, and 
glomerular filtration rate (the latter in ganglion blocked dogs only), and 
dose-dependent reductions in heart rate, renal blood flow and sodium excretion 
(only in dogs with intact autonomic reflexes). All of these effects were 
antagonized by 2-methoxyidazoxan. 5. We conclude that the renal effects of 
rilmenidine and guanabenz infusions in conscious dogs are predominantly, if not 
completely, attributable to activation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors. Our results do 
not support the hypothesis that putative I-receptors contribute towards the 
renal effects of these agents.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1995.tb16373.x
PMCID: PMC1908919
PMID: 8564219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
