1. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1995 Oct;26(4):666-73. doi: 
10.1097/00005344-199510000-00024.

Carotid arterial changes produced by a centrally mediated antihypertensive agent 
in hypertensive rats.

Levy BI(1), Dabire H, Poitevin P, Safar ME.

Author information:
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, Unité 141, Hôpital 
Lariboisère, Paris, France.

We studied the effects of centrally mediated reduction of sympathetic outflow on 
the mechanical properties of the carotid arterial wall in spontaneously 
hypertensive rats (SHR) as compared with matched Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY). 
Ascending aortic pressure and flow were recorded in open-chest anesthetized 
rats, and the systemic arterial compliance (SAC) was calculated. Intravenous 
injection of rilmenidine induced a transient increase in blood pressure (BP) in 
WKY and SHR, followed by a long-lasting reduction in SHR, together with a 
decrease in cardiac output (CO) and heart (HR) and a significant increase in 
SAC. Serial measurements of internal carotid artery diameter made with a newly 
described echo-tracking technique showed a significant, rapid, and long-lasting 
constriction in both strains. In this set of experiments, the carotid compliance 
was determined from the arterial volume-pressure relation under control 
conditions and after administration of intravenous (i.v.) rilmenidine. In both 
WKY and SHR, carotid compliance increased, but the increase was observed only at 
the higher transmural pressure ranges and not at the operating systemic BP of 
the corresponding animals. Simultaneous recordings of the carotid arterial 
diameter made with the echo-tracking technique indicated that these compliance 
changes occurred in the presence of carotid arterial constriction at any given 
value of transmural pressure. Distensibility was increased in a higher pressure 
range: from 100 to 200 mm Hg transmural pressure. The centrally mediated 
antihypertensive agent rilmenidine produced carotid arterial constriction 
independent of BP changes and, in in vivo in situ carotid preparations, arterial 
constriction was associated with a decrease in the stiffness of the arterial 
wall.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-199510000-00024
PMID: 8569231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
