1. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1996 Feb;276(2):411-20.

Role of imidazoline receptors in the cardiovascular actions of moxonidine, 
rilmenidine and clonidine in conscious rabbits.

Chan CK(1), Sannajust F, Head GA.

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Baker Medical Research Institute, Prahran, 
Victoria, Australia.

The present study in conscious rabbits with intracisternal (i.c.) catheters 
sought to determine the relative contribution of the I1 subtype of imidazoline 
receptors (IR) and alpha 2 adrenoceptors to the hypotensive effects of 
rilmenidine, clonidine and moxonidine with an I1-IR/alpha 2 adrenoceptor 
antagonist efaroxan and a specific alpha 2 adrenoceptor antagonist 
2-methoxyidazoxan (2-MI). The alpha 2 adrenoceptor antagonist effect of efaroxan 
was compared with 2-MI by performing cumulative dose-response curves in the 
presence of alpha-methyldopa (400 micrograms/kg i.c.). 2-MI was 5.6 times more 
potent than efaroxan at reversing 75% of the hypotension elicited by 
alpha-methyldopa (P < .025). This dose ratio was used to match doses of efaroxan 
and 2-MI for similar alpha 2 adrenoceptor blockade. The effects of efaroxan 
(4.1, 13, 41 micrograms/kg i.c.) and 2-MI (0.74, 2.3, 7.4 micrograms/kg i.c.) 
were investigated on a single i.c. dose of rilmenidine (12 micrograms/kg), 
clonidine (0.75 microgram/kg) and moxonidine (0.51 microgram/kg). These doses of 
the antihypertensive agents, which were determined from cumulative dose-response 
curves, produce 90% of the maximum hypotension. Efaroxan was more effective at 
reversing the hypotension induced by moxonidine and rilmenidine than was 2-MI (P 
< .01). These findings suggest that rilmenidine and moxonidine act predominantly 
via IR. By contrast, 2-MI was more effective at reversing the clonidine-induced 
hypotension than was efaroxan (P < .001), suggesting that clonidine acts mainly 
via alpha 2 adrenoceptors in conscious normotensive rabbits. Thus, a higher 
selectivity of the second generation agents moxonidine and rilmenidine for I1-IR 
over alpha 2 adrenoceptors, compared with the first generation agent clonidine, 
appears to be necessary for this effect to be manifested in their hypotensive 
actions.

PMID: 8632304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
