1. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1995;26 Suppl 2:S29-33.

Rilmenidine in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy: beyond the reduction 
of left ventricular mass.

Trimarco B(1), Morisco C, Sarno D, Iovino G, Argenziano L, Russo R, De Luca N, 
Volpe M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Federico II University, Naples, Italy.

It is generally accepted that the development of left ventricular hypertrophy 
(LVH) represents a multifactorial phenomenon that also involves neurohormonal 
mechanisms. This finding may account for the ability of angiotensin-converting 
enzyme inhibitors to induce faster and more complete reversal of LVH than that 
observed with other antihypertensive treatments. The sympathetic system is also 
involved in the genesis of hypertension-induced LVH. We assessed the effects of 
satisfactory long-term treatment with rilmenidine, a new oxazoline with a potent 
antihypertensive action, on cardiovascular structural abnormalities and cardiac 
endocrine function in hypertensive patients with left ventricular hypertrophy. 
Eleven patients underwent M-mode and two-dimensional Doppler echocardiography, 
peripheral pulsed Doppler flowmetry, determination of plasma atrial natriuretic 
factor [(ANF) pg/ml] and renin activity, and 24-h urine electrolyte excretion 
under control conditions, after 4 weeks of blood pressure normalization, after 1 
year of satisfactory antihypertensive treatment and, finally, 4 weeks after 
therapy withdrawal. I.VH (g/m2 body surface area) was reversed after 1-year 
treatment (from 152 +/- 5 to 131 +/- 4, p < 0.05). One-year treatment induced an 
improvement in brachial artery compliance (cm4/dyne.10(7)) (from 0.92 +/- 0.06 
to 1.16 +/- 0.08, p < 0.05) that persisted after withdrawal of treatment (1.17 
+/- 0.06, p < 0.05). Plasma renin activity and urinary electrolyte excretion did 
not change throughout the study, whereas ANF remained unchanged after blood 
pressure normalization (48.4 +/- 6.2 versus 44.7 +/- 2.9, NS), fell after 
reversal of LVH (28.6 +/- 3.4, p < 0.05), and remained significantly lower than 
under control conditions after therapy withdrawal (27.5 +/- 2.9, p < 0.05). 
These results demonstrate that a satisfactory long-term antihypertensive 
treatment with rilmenidine is able to reverse cardiovascular structural changes 
and to restore cardiac endocrine function.

PMID: 8642802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
