1. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1995;26 Suppl 2:S59-62.

Selectivity of rilmenidine for I1-imidazoline-binding sites in rabbit proximal 
tubule cells.

Gargalidis-Moudanos C(1), Parini A.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U388, Toulouse, France.

Imidazoline and imidazoline-like compounds may elicit their pharmacological 
activities through the interaction with three membrane proteins: alpha 
2-adrenergic receptors (alpha 2-AR), I1-binding sites (I1BS), and I2-binding 
sites (I2BS). We have recently shown that these three proteins are co-expressed 
in the renal proximal tubule cells, where they could mediate the renal effects 
of imidazoline and structurally related antihypertensive drugs such as clonidine 
and rilmenidine. To identify the receptor involved in regulation of the tubular 
effects of clonidine and rilmenidine, we performed binding studies on isolated 
cells from rabbit kidney proximal tubule using [3H]idazoxan, an I1/I2 ligand, 
and [3H]rauwolscine, a selective alpha 2-adrenergic antagonist. Competition 
studies of [3H]idazoxan binding showed that rilmenidine and clonidine interact 
with both I1BS and I2BS. The comparison of inhibition constants (rilmenidine: Ki 
for I1BS. 7.1 +/- 3.5 nM; Ki for I2BS, 5,189 +/- 1,816 nM; clonidine: Ki for 
I1BS, 58.2 +/- 17.3 nM; Ki for I2BS, 4,179 +/- 2,633 nM) demonstrated that 
rilmenidine and clonidine are 731-and 72-fold, respectively, more selective for 
I1BS than for I2BS. In addition, in competition experiments with 
[3H]-rauwolscine, rilmenidine poorly interacted with alpha 2-AR (Ki 2,440 +/- 
322 nM), whereas clonidine displayed an affinity (Ki, 32 +/- 12 nM) close to 
that observed for I1BS. Taken together, these data show that although clonidine 
is not able to discriminate alpha 2-AR from I1BS, rilmenidine selectively binds 
only to I1BS. This suggests that the renal effects of rilmenidine are related to 
its selective interaction with this class of binding site.

PMID: 8642808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
