1. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 1995 Dec;40(6):563-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2125.1995.tb05801.x.

The effects of rilmenidine and atenolol on mental stress, dynamic exercise and 
autonomic function in mild to moderate hypertension.

Panfilov V(1), Morris AD, Donnelly R, Scemama M, Reid JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, University of Glasgow, UK.

1. The effects of 4 week treatment with rilmenidine or atenolol on tests of 
mental stress, dynamic exercise, autonomic function and psychometric tests were 
evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study. 
2. After a 4 week placebo run-in, 12 patients with essential hypertension (blood 
pressure [BP] 160/95 +/- 15/7 mmHg) received rilmenidine 1-2 mg day-1, and 
atenolol 50-100 mg day-1, each for 4 weeks, with a 4 week placebo wash-out 
between drug treatments. 3. Both agents produced a comparable reduction in 
supine and erect BP. During the mental arithmetic test, BP and heart rate (HR) 
responses were similar for rilmenidine and atenolol. 4. During bicycle exercise, 
the increase in HR was significantly greater after rilmenidine (+50 vs 41 beats 
min-1, P = 0.04). During recovery, the areas under the curve for diastolic BP 
(46,450 vs 51,400 mmHg s, P = 0.02) and HR (49,445 vs 63,597 beats min-1 s, P = 
0.001) were significantly less with atenolol than rilmenidine. 5. Neither 
rilmenidine nor atenolol affected mental performance as judged by arithmetic and 
psychomotor tests. Physiological responses to autonomic function tests (deep 
breathing, facial immersion, isometric handgrip and cold pressor) were preserved 
with both drugs. The standing to lying ratio was higher on atenolol (P = 0.01) 
and Valsalva ratio was higher on rilmenidine (P = 0.03). 6. In conclusion, 
rilmenidine and atenolol exerted comparable antihypertensive effects both at 
rest and during mental and dynamic stress. Atenolol attenuated HR responses to 
dynamic exercise and the Valsalva manoeuvre; rilmenidine did not interfere with 
the physiological responses of BP and HR during autonomic function tests.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2125.1995.tb05801.x
PMCID: PMC1365212
PMID: 8703663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
