1. Br J Pharmacol. 1996 Apr;117(8):1744-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1476-5381.1996.tb15348.x.

Antiarrhythmic action of rilmenidine on adrenaline-induced arrhythmia via 
central imidazoline receptors in halothane-anaesthetized dogs.

Mammoto T(1), Kamibayashi T, Hayashi Y, Yamatodani A, Takada K, Yoshiya I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Osaka University, Faculty of Medicine, Japan.

1. To elucidate the role of central imidazoline receptors in the genesis of 
adrenaline-induced arrhythmias under halothane anaesthesia, we investigated the 
effects of rilmenidine, a selective agonist at imidazoline receptors, on this 
type of arrhythmia in dogs. Rilmenidine (1, 3, 10 micrograms kg-1, i.v.) did not 
affect basal haemodynamic parameters (heart rate and blood pressure), but 
dose-dependently inhibited adrenaline-induced arrhythmias under halothane 
anaesthesia. 2. Although, rilmenidine has a weak affinity for 
alpha(2)-adrenoceptors, pretreatment with idazoxan (10 micrograms kg-1, 
intracisternally i.c.), an imidazoline receptor antagonist which has also 
alpha(2)-adrenoceptor blocking potency, blocked the antiarrhythmic effect of 
rilmenidine (10 micrograms kg-1, i.v.). In contrast, pretreatment with 
rauwolscine (20 micrograms kg-1, i.c.), a classical alpha(2)-adrenoceptor 
antagonist with little affinity for imidazoline receptors, did not affect the 
effect of rilmenidine (10 micrograms kg-1, i.v.). Furthermore, bilateral 
vagotomy completely blocked the antiarrhythmic action of rilmenidine (10 
micrograms kg-1, i.v.). 3. It is suggested that the antiarrhythmic action of 
rilmenidine is due to the activation of central imidazoline receptors and that 
vagal tone is critical for this action of rilmenidine.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1996.tb15348.x
PMCID: PMC1909557
PMID: 8732285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
