1. J Auton Pharmacol. 1996 Feb;16(1):13-20. doi: 
10.1111/j.1474-8673.1996.tb00351.x.

Interactions of the cardiac chronotropic effects of rilmenidine with the 
autonomic nervous system in conscious dogs: comparison with clonidine.

Boucher M(1), Dubar M, Chapuy E, Chassaing C.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U. 195, Faculty of Medicine, Clermont-Ferrand, France.

1. The cardiac chronotropic effects of rilmenidine (10-100 micrograms kg-1) and 
clonidine (1-10 micrograms kg-1) were studied in conscious dogs with chronic 
atrioventricular block. 2. Rilmenidine and clonidine initially (< 3 min) 
decreased atrial rate, although the effect was not related to dose. More 
lastingly, ventricular rate was decreased in a dose-related manner (ratio, 
1:21). Rilmenidine lowered mean blood pressure only at 100 micrograms kg-1, 
while clonidine had the same effect at doses of 5 micrograms kg-1 upward (ratio, 
1:15). 3. When administered after atropine and pindolol, rilmenidine (50 
micrograms kg-1) produced a decrease in atrial rate, with an identical intensity 
but longer duration than under basal conditions. When clonidine (2.5 micrograms 
kg-1) was given after atropine, no chronotropic atrial effect was observed. 
However, when clonidine (2.5 micrograms kg-1) was given after pindolol, it 
produced a decrease in atrial rate that was more marked, both in intensity and 
duration, than under basal conditions. After phenoxybenzamine, rilmenidine 
decreased atrial rate with a more marked and lasting effect than observed under 
basal conditions. Clonidine produced a bradycardic atrial effect identical to 
the basal effect. After yohimbine, rilmenidine and clonidine decreased atrial 
rate with an intensity similar to that under basal conditions, although the time 
course was totally different. 4. When given after atropine, rilmenidine (50 
micrograms kg-1) and clonidine (2.5 micrograms kg-1) decreased ventricular rate 
as under basal conditions, whereas after pindolol and phenoxybenzamine, both 
drugs decreased ventricular rate less markedly than under basal conditions, both 
in intensity and duration. After yohimbine, rilmenidine and clonidine produced 
no chronotropic ventricular effect. 5. These results show that (a) the initial 
atrial bradycardia caused by rilmenidine results from both a decrease in 
sympathetic tone and an increase in cholinergic activity; while the effect of 
clonidine is caused mainly by the enhancement of cholinergic activity. For both 
drugs, alpha 2-adrenoceptors are involved at least in the initiation of the 
effect; (b) the very short duration of atrial bradycardia may result from reflex 
buffering in response to ventricular bradycardia. This buffering is less 
effective when heart rate was high; and (c) the ventricular bradycardia caused 
by both drugs is mainly the result of a decrease in sympathetic tone in response 
to the stimulation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors. The results also suggest that 
negative chronotropic postsynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptors could be involved in 
the ventricular bradycardia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-8673.1996.tb00351.x
PMID: 8736426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
