1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1996 Apr;353(5):557-63. doi: 
10.1007/BF00169176.

No evidence for functional imidazoline receptors on locus coeruleus neurons.

Szabo B(1), Fröhlich R, Illes P.

Author information:
(1)Pharmakologisches Institut, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität, Freiburg, Germany.

alpha 2-Adrenoceptor agonists inhibit the firing of locus coeruleus (LC) 
neurons. It was recently observed that the alpha-adrenoceptor agonists 
clonidine, rilmenidine and cirazoline, when injected intravenously in 
anaesthetized rats pretreated with the irreversible alpha 2-adrenoceptor 
antagonist N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ), excite the LC. 
The effect was attributed to activation of I1 imidazoline receptors. The aim of 
the present experiments was to characterize the direct effect of alpha 
2-adrenoceptor and I1 imidazoline receptor agonists on LC neurons. Electrical 
activity of LC neurons was extracellularly recorded in midpontine slices 
prepared from the rat brain. Concentration-response curves were obtained for the 
alpha 2-agonist noradrenaline and the mixed I1/alpha 2-receptor agonists 
clonidine, rilmenidine and moxonidine in slices without treatment and in slices 
treated with 6-chloro-N-methyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine (SK&F86466) 
or EEDQ, alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonists with low affinity for I1 and I2 
imidazoline receptors, respectively. All four agonists concentration-dependently 
reduced the firing rate of the neurons, with full inhibition at higher 
concentrations. SK&F86466 shifted the concentration-response curves of the 
agonists to the right; the calculated antagonist dissociation constants are 
compatible with an effect of the agonists on alpha 2-adrenoceptors. EEDQ 
completely prevented the inhibition by the agonists. Neither in SK&F86466- nor 
in EEDQ-treated slices was an excitation by clonidine, rilmenidine and 
moxonidine observed. We conclude that the LC neurons do not possess functional 
I1 (and also no I2) imidazoline receptors. The effects of noradrenaline, 
clonidine, rilmenidine and moxonidine on the neurons can be fully explained with 
an interaction with inhibitory alpha 2-adrenoceptors (probably of the alpha 2D 
subtype). The excitation of the LC by imidazoline receptor agonists under in 
vivo conditions, hence, is not a direct effect on the neurons of the LC.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00169176
PMID: 8740150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
