1. Clin Exp Hypertens. 1996 Apr-May;18(3-4):291-303. doi: 
10.3109/10641969609088964.

New central mediators as targets of centrally acting antihypertensive drugs.

van Zwieten PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacotherapy, Academic Medical Center, University of 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The modulation of peripheral sympathetic activity by the central nervous system 
may involve various pathways, neurotransmitters and receptors. In particular 
central catecholaminergic neurones and alpha-adrenoceptors have been analysed in 
detail, and they are recognized as important targets of the classic centrally 
acting antihypertensives clonidine, guanfacine and alpha-methyl-DOPA. Initially 
these drugs have been assumed to reduce elevated blood pressure via the 
stimulation of central alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the brain stem, thus leading to 
peripheral sympathoinhibition and a reduction of elevated blood pressure, heart 
rate and plasma catecholamines. In a later stage it has been recognized that 
central imidazoline (I1) receptors, probably located in the nucleus reticularis 
lateralis in the medullary region may also be involved in the central regulation 
of peripheral sympathetic activity, and for that matter as a target of centrally 
acting antihypertensives. Moxonidine and rilmenidine are the prototypes of such 
agents. Accordingly, the receptor profile of the various types of centrally 
acting antihypertensives may be characterized as follows: [formula: see text] 
The various compounds mentioned will thus cause peripheral sympathoinhibition, 
initiated by different receptor targets in the CNS. Finally, the peripheral 
alpha 1-blocker urapidil has been demonstrated to possess an additional central 
mechanism, mediated by the stimulation of serotonergic 5HT1A-receptors located 
in the rostral ventrolateral medulla.

DOI: 10.3109/10641969609088964
PMID: 8743022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
