1. Fundam Clin Pharmacol. 1996;10(4):379-86. doi: 
10.1111/j.1472-8206.1996.tb00589.x.

Rilmenidine activates postjunctional alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the 
canine saphenous vein.

Marsault R(1), Taddei S, Boulanger CM, Illiano S, Vanhoutte PM.

Author information:
(1)University of Padova, Department of Biomedical Sciences, Italy.

Experiments were performed to determine the subtypes of alpha-adrenoceptors 
involved in the contraction induced by rilmenidine in isolated canine cutaneous 
veins. Rings of saphenous vein (without endothelium) were suspended for the 
recording of isometric force in physiological salt solution. All experiments 
were performed in the presence of propranolol (to antagonize 
beta-adrenoceptors), cocaine (to inhibit neuronal uptake) and hydrocortisone (to 
inhibit extraneuronal uptake). In the presence of rauwolscine (an alpha 
2-adrenergic blocker), rilmenidine caused concentration-dependent contractions 
which were inhibited by prazosin (nonselective alpha 1-antagonist) and by 
(+)niguldipine (selective alpha 1A-adrenergic antagonist), but not by 
(-)niguldipine. After treatment with phenoxybenzamine (to alkylate alpha 
1-adrenoceptors), rilmenidine evoked contractions of the canine saphenous vein 
which were antagonized competitively by rauwolscine. The combination of 
rauwolscine and prazosin did not abolish contractions evoked by the highest 
concentrations of rilmenidine. Although binding experiments using 3H-idazoxan 
suggested the existence of a nonadrenergic binding site (around 20% of the total 
binding), contractile studies failed to demonstrate their involvement in the 
increases in tension evoked by rilmenidine. These experiments suggest that the 
contractions evoked by rilmenidine in isolated canine veins are mediated by both 
alpha 1A- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1472-8206.1996.tb00589.x
PMID: 8871137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
