1. Br J Pharmacol. 1996 Nov;119(6):1248-54. doi: 
10.1111/j.1476-5381.1996.tb16029.x.

Rilmenidine and reflex renal sympathetic nerve activation in Wistar and 
hypertensive rats.

Zhang T(1), Johns EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Medical School, Birmingham.

1. This study sets out to examine the effect of rilmenidine administered 
systemically on basal and reflexly activated renal nerve activity in Wistar and 
stroke prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP). 2. Animals were 
anaesthetized with chloralose/urethane, stimulating electrodes were placed on 
the brachial plexi and the renal nerves were isolated and put on recording 
electrodes. Both brachial nerves were stimulated electrically at 0.8, 1.6 and 
3.2 Hz (15 V, 0.2 ms) in the absence and in the presence of rilmenidine given at 
100 and 200 micrograms kg-1 i.v. in a cumulative manner. 3. Stimulation of the 
brachial nerves caused graded increases in blood pressure, heart rate and 
integrated renal nerve activity (P < 0.05) in both Wistar and SHRSP. Fast 
Fourier transformation of the renal nerve activity signal to generate a power 
spectrum demonstrated that both total power and percentage power at heart rate 
was higher in the SHRSP than Wistar (P < 0.05). Total power was raised during 
brachial nerve stimulation in both Wistar and SHRSP by some 200-300% (P < 0.05) 
but the percentage power at heart rate was decreased by some 60% (P < 0.01) in 
the Wistar but was raised by some 40-50% (P < 0.05) in the SHRSP. 4. 
Administration of rilmenidine caused dose-related decreases in blood pressure 
and heart rate and integrated renal nerve activity in both Wistar and SHRSP (all 
P < 0.05). Both doses of rilmenidine decreased (P < 0.05) the total power in the 
signal in both strains of rat by about one-half but the power occurring at heart 
rate only fell at the higher dose of compound in the Wistar, whereas in the 
SHRSP it was decreased by both doses by approximately 60-70%. In the presence of 
rilmenidine, coherence of the renal nerve signal was reduced in the Wistar and 
SHRSP and although the drug had no effect on phase difference in the Wistar, 
this parameter was decreased in the SHRSP by the low and high doses of 
rilmenidine (P < 0.05). 5. In the presence of 100 micrograms kg-1 rilmenidine, 
stimulation of the brachial nerves caused increases in total power in the Wistar 
and SHRSP (two to three fold, P < 0.05), together with a decrease (P < 0.05) in 
the percentage power occurring at heart rate in the Wistar, of some 60%, and an 
increase (P < 0.01) in the SHRSP, of some two to three times, which were very 
similar in magnitude and pattern to those obtained in the absence of the drug. 
Following the 200 micrograms kg-1 dose of rilmenidine, brachial nerve 
stimulation increased total power in the Wistar and SHRSP groups (P < 0.05) and 
whereas in the Wistar the percentage power at heart rate did not change in the 
SHRSP it was again increased in response to the electrical stimulation of the 
brachial plexus (P < 0.001) by between two to three fold. 6. These results 
showed that in both the Wistar and SHRSP rilmenidine depressed blood pressure, 
heart rate and integrated renal nerve activity. Moreover, rilmenidine did not 
affect the reflex activation of renal nerve activity via the somatosensory 
system although the characteristics within the power spectra underwent certain 
changes which might have a functional impact at the level to the kidney.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1996.tb16029.x
PMCID: PMC1915907
PMID: 8937730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
