1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1996 Nov;354(5):598-605. doi: 
10.1007/BF00170834.

Inhibition of centrally induced ventricular arrhythmias by rilmenidine and 
idazoxan in rabbits.

Roegel JC(1), Yannoulis N, De Jong W, Monassier L, Feldman J, Bousquet P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Pharmacologie Cardiovascular et Rénale, CNRS ERS 109, Faculté 
de Médecine, Strasbourg, France.

In a model of ventricular arrhythmias of central origin, we investigated the 
effects of rilmenidine, an oxazoline with antihypertensive properties, and 
idazoxan, an imidazoline that is an antagonist of the hypotensive effects of 
rilmenidine. Bicuculline, a GABAA receptor antagonist, was administered 
intracisternally (i.c.) to produce arrhythmias in pentobarbitone anaesthetised 
rabbits; 10 micrograms/kg bicuculline i.c. induced polymorphic ventricular 
ectopic beats and ventricular tachycardia while blood pressure increased by 
about 50-60% and sinusal heart rate decreased by about 20%. Rilmenidine, either 
administered intravenously (0.01, 0.1, 1 mg/kg i.v.) or i.c. (3, 10, 30 
micrograms/kg) dose-dependently prevented the occurrence of bicuculline-induced 
arrhythmias while, because of a lower base-line, the blood pressure values 
reached were less as compared to controls. Idazoxan administered i.v. (3, 10 
mg/kg) had a similar action. Idazoxan i.c. (15 micrograms/kg) had no significant 
antiarrhythmic effect but antagonized in part the haemodynamic and 
antiarrhythmic effects of rilmenidine (1 mg/kg i.v.; 30 micrograms/kg i.c.). It 
is suggested that the antiarrhythmic effects observed with rilmenidine are 
mainly mediated by blunting the bicuculline-induced increase in the sympathetic 
nervous output to the heart and the vascular beds. These effects of rilmenidine 
are likely to originate both from the central and peripheral nervous system. The 
antiarrhythmic effects of idazoxan i.v. might be related to a blocking action on 
alpha 2-adrenoceptors at the level of the coronary arteries and other vascular 
beds.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00170834
PMID: 8938658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
