1. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1996 Aug;89(8):1103-6.

[Effects of rilmenidine on rats made insulin resistant and hypertensive by a 
high fructose diet].

[Article in French]

Berthault MF(1), Morin J, Dubar M, Ktorza A, Ferré P, Pénicaud L.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de physiopathologie de la nutrition, CNRS URA 307, université 
Denis-Diderot, Paris.

This study was aimed to determine the effects of rilmenidine, an hypertensive 
drug, in an animal model of hypertension associated with insulin resistance, 
i.e. rats fed on a high fructose diet. Wistar rats were fed during four weeks 
either on a standard diet (S) or on a high fructose diet (F, 34.5% de fructose). 
In half of the F groups, rilmenidine (1 mg/kg/day) was added to the drinking 
water during the two last weeks of the diet (FR). Arterial blood pressure as 
well as insulin efficiency were determined at the end of the four weeks. Body 
weight gain was higher in F than in S rats (66 +/- 8 g versus 45 +/- 8 g; p < 
0.05), this was prevented by rilmenidine treatment (32 +/- 2 g). Arterial 
systolic blood pressure was increased in F rats (162 +/- 2 vs 155 +/- 2 mmHg; p 
< 0.05), rilmenidine brought this value back to normal (149 +/- 3 mmHg). During 
the euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp, glucose utilization was lower (10 +/- 1 
vs 14 +/- 1.5 mg/min/kg; p < 0.05) and hepatic glucose production higher (1 +/- 
0.01 vs 0 mg/min/kg; p < 0.01) in F than in S rats. These changes in insulin 
action were totally abolished by rilmenidine. These data demonstrate that 
rilmenidine can ameliorate the deleterious effects of a high fructose diet, i.e. 
weight gain, hypertension and resistance to the effects of insulin Rilmenidine 
could represent a potential therapeutic agent for the treatment of hypertension 
associated with metabolic disorders such as syndrom X and obesity.

PMID: 8949387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
