1. Gen Pharmacol. 1996 Oct;27(7):1273-8. doi: 10.1016/s0306-3623(96)00038-9.

Are imidazoline receptors involved in sympathetic neurotransmission in rat vas 
deferens?

Avellar MC(1), Markus RP.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Farmacologia, Universidade de SÃ£o Paulo, Brazil.

1. An involvement of imidazoline receptors in the modulation of neurotransmitter 
release was investigated in the prostatic portion of the rat vas deferens 
stimulated transmurally at 0.2 Hz or by single pulses. 2. Idaxozan and yohimbine 
induced a concentration-dependent potentiation of the contractile response to 
0.2-Hz transmural stimulation in the epididymal and prostatic portion of the 
vas. 3. After reserpine treatment, idazoxan, but not yohimbine, still 
potentiated the contractile response, suggesting a possible involvement of 
imidazoline receptors. 4. Clonidine and rilmenidine, agonists with different 
affinities to alpha 2-adrenoceptors and imidazoline receptors, inhibited with 
the same potency the contractile responses to a single pulse transmural 
stimulation. 5. Yohimbine (a selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist) 
antagonized the inhibitory concentration effect curve to rilmenidine in a 
competitive manner. pA2 values for idaxozan (an antagonist to alpha 
2-adrenoceptors and imidazoline receptors) were not different when noradrenaline 
or rilmenidine were used as agonists. Phenoxybenzamine blocked the effect of 
both agonists. 6. Thus, the potency relationship of agonists, as well as the 
effect of the antagonists, did not favor the hypothesis that imidazoline 
receptors are involved in the idazoxan-potentiating effect in the rat vas 
deferens.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-3623(96)00038-9
PMID: 8981080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
