1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1997 Jan;355(1):131-8. doi: 
10.1007/pl00004911.

[3H]2-(2-Benzofuranyl)-2-imidazoline, a highly selective radioligand for 
I2-imidazoline receptor binding sites. Studies in rabbit kidney membranes.

Hosseini AR(1), King PR, Louis WJ, Gundlach AL.

Author information:
(1)University of Melbourne, Department of Medicine, Austin and Repatriation 
Medical Centre, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia.

2-(2-Benzofuranyl)-2-imidazoline (2-BFI) has recently been characterised as a 
selective ligand for the I2-type of imidazoline-receptor binding site(s) 
(I2-RBS). The present studies determined the relative levels of specific 
[3H]2-BFI binding to membrane homogenates of brain and kidney from rat, guinea 
pig and rabbit and identified the pharmacological characteristics of [3H]2-BFI 
binding sites in rabbit kidney membranes. Rabbit kidney membranes had the 
highest relative density of specific [3H]2-BFI binding of all tissues studied 
(2000 fmol/mg protein). Rabbit brain and guinea pig kidney had moderate levels 
of specific [3H]2-BFI binding (350-500 fmol/mg protein), while rat kidney and 
guinea pig and rat brain displayed much lower densities of binding (40-65 
fmol/mg protein). Studies of [3H]2-BFI binding kinetics in rabbit kidney 
homogenates revealed binding to two distinct sites with Kd values of 0.10 +/- 
0.01 nmol/l and 1.00 +/- 0.36 nmol/l respectively. Equilibrium saturation 
studies were also consistent with the presence of two binding sites-[3H]2-BFI 
(0.01-20 nmol/l) bound to sites with affinities of 0.10 +/- 0.01 nmol/l and 0.92 
+/- 0.13 nmol/l and binding densities of 470 +/- 80 and 840 +/- 60 fmol/mg 
protein (n = 3), representing 36 and 64% respectively. Drug inhibition studies 
revealed that L-adrenaline; alpha 1-adrenoceptor drugs (prazosin, 
L-phenylephrine) and alpha 2-adrenoceptor drugs (rauwolscine, methoxyidazoxan, 
2-(2,4-(O-methoxyphenyl)-piperazin-1-yl)-ethyl-4, 
4-dimethyl-1,3-(2H,4H)-isoquinolindione (ARC-239) had extremely low affinities 
for [3H]2-BFI binding sites (IC50 > or = 10 mumol/l). Putative I1-RBS compounds, 
p-aminoclonidine, moxonidine, imidazole-4-acetic acid and cimetidine, inhibited 
[3H]2-BFI binding to rabbit renal membranes with low to very low affinities (Ki 
values 3 to > or = 100 mumol/l), suggesting [3H]2-BFI does not label I1-RBS in 
rabbit kidney membranes. I2-RBS compounds-2- (4,5-dihydroimidaz-2-yl)-quinoline 
(BU224), 2-(4,5-dihydroimidaz-2-yl)-quinoxaline (BU239), idazoxan and 
cirazoline-potently inhibited [3H]2-BFI binding (Ki values 0.37-1.6 nmol/l), 
confirming the labelling of I2-RBS. Inhibition of [3H]2-BFI binding by certain 
compounds was consistent with their interaction with two binding site 
populations-for example (drug, Ki values) guanabenz, 0.65 nmol/l and 0.17 
mumol/l; naphazoline, 0.94 nmol/l and 2.8 mumol/l; amiloride, 76 nmol/l and 26 
mumol/l rilmenidine, 150 nmol/l and 50 mumol/l; and clonidine, 230 nmol/l and 70 
mumol/l. The high affinity of amiloride for a high proportion (85%) of the 
binding is consistent with the presence of the I2A-subtype of I-RBS in rabbit 
kidney. These results demonstrate that [3H]2-BFI is a highly selective and high 
affinity radioligand for I2-RBS which should be useful for the further 
characterisation of these sites in mammalian tissues.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00004911
PMID: 9007853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
