1. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 1996 Dec;45(10):595-601.

[Effects of rilmenidine (hyperium) on lipid balance in hyperlipidemic 
hypertensive patients. Randomized, controlled, double-blind 8-week study vs. 
captopril in parallel groups].

[Article in French]

Scemama M(1), FÃ©vrier B, Beucler I, Dairou F.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Recherches Internationales Servier, Courbevoie.

Rilmenidine (dose of 1 mg once or twice a day) is the first oxazoline compound 
with antihypertensive properties. Its effects on lipid parameters [total 
cholesterol, HDL and LDL fractions, triglycerides, apolipoprotein A1 and B, 
lipoprotein (a)] were compared under double-blind conditions and in parallel 
groups to those of captopril (50 to 100 mg per day, in 2 divided doses) over a 
period of 8 weeks, in 51 hyperlipidaemic hypertensive patients [age: 56.3 +/- 
1.5 years, systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP/DBP): 165.1 +/- 2.0/99.1 
+/- 0.6 mmHg, LDL cholesterol: 5.38 +/- 0.16 mmol/L]. No significant difference 
was demonstrated between the groups on inclusion for any of the clinical 
parameters (SBP, DBP, heart rate (HR)) and laboratory parameters, apart from 
apolipoprotein A1, for which the mean value was higher in the rilmenidine group 
than in the captopril group (p < 0.05). No difference between the groups was 
demonstrated during the 8 weeks of treatment for the course of blood pressure: 
SBP and DBP decreased by 20.5 and 13.9 mmHg, respectively, in the rilmenidine 
group and by 21.3 and 13.1 mmHg in the captopril group (no significant 
difference: NS). HR decreased by 0.3 beats per minute (bpm) in the rilmenidine 
group and by 4.1 bpm in the captopril group (NS). No statistically significant 
difference in lipid parameters was observed between the two groups. No 
clinically significant variation in any of the lipid parameters was observed 
after 8 weeks of treatment with rilmenidine or captopril. These results confirm 
the antihypertensive efficacy and neutrality of rilmenidine on lipid metabolism 
over a period of 8 weeks. Rilmenidine therefore represents a useful alternative 
in the first-line treatment of hypertension in hyperlipidaemic hypertensive 
patients.

PMID: 9033699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
