1. Br J Pharmacol. 1997 Apr;120(8):1575-81. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0701090.

The involvement of pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins in the post receptor 
mechanism of central I1-imidazoline receptors.

Takada K(1), Hayashi Y, Kamibayashi T, Mammoto T, Yamatodani A, Kitamura S, 
Yoshiya I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Osaka Medical Center & Research Institute for 
Maternal & Child Health, Japan.

1. To elucidate the possible involvement of pertussis toxin (PTX)-sensitive G 
proteins in the post receptor mechanism of alpha 2-adrenoceptors and imidazoline 
receptors, we examined the effect of pretreatment of the central nervous system 
with PTX on the antidysrhythmic effect of dexmedetomidine, a selective alpha 
2-adrenoceptor agonist, and rilmenidine, a selective I1-imidazoline receptor 
agonist on halothane-adrenaline dysrhythmias in rats. 2. Dexmedetomidine (0, 
1.0, 2.0, 5.0 micrograms kg-1 min-1.i.v.) and rilmenidine (0, 1.0, 3.0, 10, 20 
micrograms kg-1, i.v.) prevented the genesis of halothane-adrenaline 
dysrhythmias in a dose-dependent fashion. Both idazoxan (10, 20 micrograms kg-1, 
intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.)), an alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist with 
high affinity for imidazoline receptors, and rauwolscine, (40 micrograms kg-1, 
i.c.v.), an alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist with low affinity for imidazoline 
receptors inhibited the action of dexmedetomidine (5.0 micrograms kg-1, min-1, 
i.v.), but the inhibitory potency of idazoxan was much greater than that of 
rauwolscine. While the pretreatment with PTX (0.1, 0.5, 1.0 micrograms kg-1, 
i.c.v.) did not change the dysrhythmogenecity of adrenaline, this treatment 
completely blocked the antidysrhythmic property of rilmenidine (20 micrograms 
kg-1, i.v.) as well as dexmedetomidine (5.0 micrograms kg-1 min-1, i.v.). 3. It 
is suggested that central I1-imidazoline receptors as well as alpha 
2-adrenoceptors may be functionally coupled to PTX-sensitive G proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0701090
PMCID: PMC1564637
PMID: 9113381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
