1. Neurochem Int. 1997 Jan;30(1):55-62. doi: 10.1016/s0197-0186(96)00038-1.

Renal denervation altered the hemodynamic and renal effects following 
intracerebroventricular administration of the I1-imidazoline receptor agonist, 
rilmenidine, in pentobarbital anaesthetized rats.

Penner SB(1), Smyth DD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.

Previous studies have reported on the effects of intracerebroventricular (icv) 
administration of the I1-imidazoline receptor agonist moxonidine. In the present 
study, the relationship between increasing doses of the I1-agonist rilmenidine 
(administered icv) with blood pressure and renal function has been determined. 
Moreover, the importance of the renal nerves in this response have also been 
assessed. In pentobarbitone anesthetized rats, icv rilmenidine (30, 100, 300 
nmol in 5 microliters) produced a dose related decrease in blood pressure and 
heart rate. Urine flow was not altered at the lower doses although at the 
highest dose (300 nmol) the increase approached significance (p = 0.06). Sodium 
excretion and osmolar clearance were not altered. Free water clearance was 
increased at 100 and 300 nmol rilmenidine (p < 0.05). Consistent with the above 
dose response studies, in sham denervated rats icv rilmenidine (300 nmol) 
decreased blood pressure and increased free water clearance. In rats having 
undergone renal denervation, baseline levels of urine flow rate, sodium 
excretion and osmolar clearance were increased. In these denervated rats, icv 
rilmenidine (300 nmol) failed to decrease blood pressure. Urine flow rate was 
increased with a decrease in sodium excretion and osmolar clearance. Free water 
clearance was increased. These results indicate the importance of the renal 
nerves in mediating the acute decrease in blood pressure following icv 
administration of the I1-imidazoline receptor agonist rilmenidine. The increase 
in free water clearance seen following icv rilmenidine appears to be mediated 
independent of the renal nerves. The changes associated with sodium excretion on 
the contrary are dependent on intact renal nerves.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-0186(96)00038-1
PMID: 9116588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
