1. Eur J Pharmacol. 1997 Apr 23;325(1):47-55. doi: 10.1016/s0014-2999(97)00098-8.

Effect of rilmenidine on arterial pressure and urinary output in the 
spontaneously hypertensive rat.

Cechetto DF(1), Kline RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, University of Western Ontario, 
London, Canada.

Rilmenidine is an antihypertensive agent acting at the imidazoline receptor that 
may have both central effects in the ventral lateral medulla and direct effects 
on the kidney to alter Na+ excretion. The present experiments examined whether 
rilmenidine induces a leftward shift or change in the slope of the 
pressure-natriuresis curve in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR). A single 
oral gavage dose indicated that 3 and 10 mg/kg rilmenidine significantly lowers 
arterial pressure at 4-12 h after administration by oral gavage. The effect of 
rilmenidine on pressure-natriuresis was studied using twice daily doses of 1 and 
3 mg/kg for control and treated SHR drinking tap water or 1% NaCl for 3 days. 
Na+ excretion was measured over 24 h, and mean arterial pressure was measured 
6-8 h after the morning dose of rilmenidine. The results indicate that 1 mg/kg 
had no effect, while the pressure-natriuresis relationship for the rats 
receiving the 3 mg/kg dose was shifted to the left and was not significantly 
different from the vertical slope of the untreated SHR. This experiment also 
suggested that rilmenidine may attenuate the salt preference of the rats. This 
was confirmed in an additional series of experiments in which the rats had 
access to both tap water and 1% NaCl. Thus, rilmenidine shifts the 
pressure-natriuresis relationship to the left and reduces salt preference in 
SHR.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(97)00098-8
PMID: 9151938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
