1. Clin Exp Hypertens. 1997 Jul-Aug;19(5-6):591-605. doi: 
10.3109/10641969709083172.

Central imidazoline receptors and centrally acting anti-hypertensive agents.

Head GA(1), Burke SL, Chan CK.

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Baker Medical Research Institute, Prahran, 
Victoria, Australia.

We have examined the location and contribution of imidazoline receptors (IR) in 
mediating the hypotensive and sympatholytic actions of first and second 
generation anti-hypertensive agents in rabbits. We found that the hypotension 
produced by rilmenidine and moxonidine given intravenously (i.v.) or into the 
fourth ventricle (4V) was preferentially reversed by the IR antagonists idazoxan 
and efaroxan (compared to a selective alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist 
2-methoxy-idazoxan), suggesting that IR are important in the sympatho-inhibition 
produced by these agents. Clonidine was not preferentially reversed by the IR 
antagonists suggesting an action via alpha(2)-adrenoceptors. In anaesthetised 
rabbits, the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) was the most potent site for 
rilmenidine to produce the sympatho-inhibition and modulation of sympathetic 
baroreflexes. alpha-Methylnoradrenaline was also sympatholytic suggesting 
alpha(2)-adrenoceptors are also present in this site. Microinjection of the IR 
and alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonists showed that rilmenidine activates IR in 
the RVLM but that alpha(2)-adrenoceptors are also activated as a consequence. 
These studies suggest that rilmenidine acts primarily via IR in the RVLM to 
reduce sympathetic tone but also imply an important association of 
alpha(2)-adrenoceptors and IR in the region.

DOI: 10.3109/10641969709083172
PMID: 9247741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
