1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1997 Sep;356(3):410-7. doi: 
10.1007/pl00005070.

Imidazoline/guanidinium binding sites and their relation to inhibition of K(ATP) 
channels in pancreatic B-cells.

Rustenbeck I(1), Herrmann C, Ratzka P, Hasselblatt A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

To elucidate the beta-cytotropic effect of imidazoline compounds their 
inhibitory effect on ATP-dependent K+ channels (K(ATP) channels) in pancreatic 
B-cells was compared with their binding to membranes from insulin-secreting HIT 
T15 cells. K(ATP) channels in inside-out patches from B-cells were closed with 
the following rank order of efficacy at 10 microM: guanabenz > phentolamine = 
alinidine > clonidine > idazoxan > rilmenidine = amiloride. The last four 
compounds achieved an incomplete inhibition only. In contrast to sulfonylureas, 
the inhibitory action of imidazolines was not enhanced by ADP. With intact cells 
the site which mediates inhibition is less easily accessible for protonated 
compounds, suggesting a location at the inner face of the plasma membrane. 
Competition binding experiments were performed by masking alpha-adrenoceptors 
and using [3H]clonidine as ligand. Homologous displacement of [3H]clonidine 
revealed two distinct binding sites in HIT cell membranes characterized by 
dissociation constants of 38 nM and 4,911 nM and maximal binding capacities of 
118 fmol/mg protein and 18 pmol/mg protein. Generally, ligands for I2 
imidazoline receptors were more potent than ligands for I1 imidazoline receptors 
to displace [3H]clonidine from the high affinity site, which does not fit into 
the current classification of imidazoline receptors. Binding to the second site 
had affinities in the micromolar range, similar to the concentrations necessary 
to inhibit K(ATP) channels in B-cells. However, alinidine and phentolamine 
inhibited K(ATP) channels already at concentrations at which they displaced 
[3H]clonidine only from the high affinity site, but not yet from the low 
affinity site. Since the proportion of the low and high affinity site varied in 
dependence of the competitor, the imidazoline binding sites in HIT cells may not 
be independent, but may rather represent two interacting or interconvertible 
sites both of which may be involved in K(ATP) channel closure.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00005070
PMID: 9303581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
