1. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 1997 Sep-Oct;24(9-10):661-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1681.1997.tb02109.x.

Pretreatment with the dopamine agonist quinpirole inhibits central 
antihypertensive mechanisms in rats.

van den Buuse M(1), Tritton SB.

Author information:
(1)Baker Medical Research Institute, Prahran, Victoria, Australia. 
maarten.vandenbuuse@baker.edu.au

1. Intravenous or central treatment of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) 
with the dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole caused a short-lasting pressor 
response with little effect on heart rate. 2. At 30 min after intravenous 
administration of quinpirole, the antihypertensive effect of rilmenidine was 
significantly inhibited. This interaction of quinpirole and rilmenidine was 
similarly observed when quinpirole was administered either intravenously (0.3 or 
0.1 mg/kg), in the lateral cerebral ventricles (0.1 mg/kg) or intracisternally 
(0.1 mg/kg) or when rilmenidine was administered intravenously (1 mg/kg) or 
intracisternally (0.1 mg/kg). 3. The apparent desensitization to the 
antihypertensive effect of rilmenidine 30 min after pretreatment with quinpirole 
was not observed after a 4 or 24 h interval. 4. These data suggest that 
quinpirole has prolonged effects on central sympathetic vasomotor mechanisms 
that are the target of centrally acting antihypertensive drugs. These and 
previous results show a functional interaction between central dopamine D2 
receptor activation and sympathetic responses mediated by a wide range of 
different receptors, including imidazoline and 5-hydroxytryptamine 
5-HT1A-receptors and alpha 2-adrenoceptors.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1681.1997.tb02109.x
PMID: 9315366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
