1. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 1997 Sep-Oct;24(9-10):764-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1681.1997.tb02129.x.

Pressor responses to brain dopaminergic stimulation.

van den Buuse M(1).

Author information:
(1)Baker Medical Research Institute, Prahran, Victoria, Australia. 
maarten.vandenbuuse@baker.edu.au

1. Systemic administration of a dopamine D2 receptor agonist, such as 
quinpirole, causes a centrally mediated rise in blood pressure (BP) with a 
maximum at 1-2 min after injection. At 30 min after injection, when BP has 
returned to baseline, further treatment with these drugs has little effect on 
BP. Moreover, the antihypertensive effects of sympathoinhibitory drugs, such as 
clonidine and rilmenidine, is markedly inhibited. Increased circulating levels 
of vasopressin contribute to the initial rise in BP, but return to baseline 
thereafter. Differential changes in sympathetic vasomotor tone may be involved 
in the apparent desensitization induced by quinpirole. 2. Stimulation of the 
region of origin of the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system in the brain, the 
ventral tegmental area, causes a long-lasting increase in BP. In this model, 
circulating levels of vasopressin are moderately increased through a 
non-dopaminergic mechanism. Dopaminergic stimulation causes a functional 
potentiation of the effect of vasopressin, resulting in an increase in BP. 3. 
Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) display several changes in central 
dopaminergic responses. Dopamine levels in the brain are normal, while resting 
DA activity appears reduced. Partial depletion of forebrain DA levels, 
particularly in the nigrostriatal system, causes an inhibition of the 
development of hypertension and normalizes deficient functional responses to 
dopaminergic drugs in the SHR. 4. These results show that brain DA is involved 
in several aspects of cardiovascular regulation and may be involved in the 
development of hypertension. The widespread involvement of brain DA systems in 
behavioural, hormonal and cardiovascular mechanisms suggests that these systems 
play an important role in the integration of stress and environmental stimuli 
with homeostatic mechanisms in the body.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1681.1997.tb02129.x
PMID: 9315386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
