1. Arzneimittelforschung. 1997 Sep;47(9):1009-15.

Role of I1 imidazoline receptors in the sympathoinhibition produced by 
intracisternally administered rilmenidine and moxonidine.

Szabo B(1), Urban R.

Author information:
(1)Pharmakologisches Institut, Albert-Ludwigs-Universit√§t, Freiburg, Germany.

The role of alpha 2-adrenoceptors and I1 imidazoline receptors in the 
cardiovascular effects of rilmenidine (CAS 54187-04-1), moxonidine (CAS 
75438-57-2) and guanabenz (CAS 23256-50-0) was studied in conscious rabbits. In 
radioligand binding studies, rilmenidine and moxonidine are selective for I1 
imidazoline receptors (vs. alpha 2-adrenoceptors) and guanabenz is selective for 
alpha 2-adrenoceptors (vs. I1 imidazoline receptors). Efaroxan (CAS 89197-00-2; 
selective for I1 imidazoline receptors) and yohimbine (CAS 65-19-0; selective 
for alpha 2-adrenoceptors) were used as antagonists. All drugs were injected 
into the cisterna magna. Guanabenz (1, 3, 10 and 30 micrograms kg-1), 
rilmenidine (1, 3, 10 and 30 micrograms kg-1) and moxonidine (0.03, 0.1, 0.3 and 
1 microgram kg-1) dose-dependently lowered blood pressure, heart rate and the 
plasma concentration of noradrenaline. In the antagonism experiments, guanabenz 
(10 micrograms kg-1), rilmenidine (10 micrograms kg-1) and moxonidine (0.3 
micrograms kg-1) were administered first; they caused equal hypotension. 
Injection of the agonists was followed by injection of efaroxan (0.3-1 microgram 
kg-1) or yohimbine (0.1-0.3 micrograms kg-1). Efaroxan and yohimbine were 
equieffective at antagonizing the effects of guanabenz. In contrast, efaroxan 
was more effective than yohimbine at antagonizing the effects of rilmenidine and 
moxonidine. The results show that intracisternally administered guanabenz, 
rilmenidine and moxonidine cause sympathoinhibition. alpha 2-Adrenoceptors are 
responsible for the sympathoinhibition produced by guanabenz. In contrast, I1 
imidazoline receptors are involved in the sympathoinhibition caused by 
rilmenidine and moxonidine.

PMID: 9342413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
