1. Brain Res. 1997 Sep 19;769(1):108-18. doi: 10.1016/s0006-8993(97)00677-x.

Clonidine reduces hyperpolarization-activated inward current (Ih) in rat 
hypoglossal motoneurons.

Parkis MA(1), Berger AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, School of Medicine, University of 
Washington, Seattle 98195-7290, USA.

We used intracellular recording techniques to investigate the actions of 
clonidine on hypoglossal motoneurons (HMs) in rat brainstem slices. Clonidine 
(10-100 microM) produced a small (2-6 mV), dose-dependent hyperpolarization in 
HMs, accompanied by an increase in peak input resistance (RN). It also slowed 
the time course of the depolarizing 'sag' of the voltage response to constant 
hyperpolarizing current steps. These effects were mimicked by the 
alpha2-adrenoceptor (alpha2-AR) agonist guanabenz, but not by the Ih-imidazoline 
receptor agonists moxonidine or rilmenidine. Recorded in single-electrode 
voltage clamp mode, clonidine decreased input conductance of HMs and reduced the 
amplitude of a hyperpolarization-activated inward current (Ih). Clonidine's 
effect on Ih was three-fold: it shifted the half-activation voltage (V1/2) in 
the hyperpolarizing direction (by 4.4 +/- 0.7 mV at a dose of 10 microM), 
decreased the maximal current (by approximately 20%), and slowed the time course 
of Ih activation at all voltage steps. At the most hyperpolarized potential 
steps, clonidine slowed activation of Ih dramatically, yielding a striking 
increase in the activation time constant. The alpha2-AR antagonists yohimbine 
and idazoxan reduced clonidine's effect on V1/2 and on the Ih activation time 
course, but neither blocked clonidine's reduction of the maximal current, nor 
its strong slowing of Ih activation at the most hyperpolarized steps. We were 
unable to mimic or occlude clonidine's actions with the adenylate cyclase 
inhibitor SQ 22536 nor with the non-specific protein kinase inhibitor H-7. We 
conclude that clonidine hyperpolarizes HMs via a reduction of the amount of Ih 
that is active at rest, and that the response is mediated in part by alpha2-ARs. 
Some effects of clonidine on these neurons do not appear to be 
receptor-mediated, and may be due to physical block by clonidine of Ih channels.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(97)00677-x
PMID: 9374278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
