1. Eur J Pharmacol. 1998 Jan 12;341(2-3):179-85. doi: 
10.1016/s0014-2999(97)01490-8.

Antagonism of alpha1-adrenoceptor agonist-induced responses by rilmenidine in 
vascular smooth muscle.

Cario-Toumaniantz C(1), Loirand G, Pacaud P.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Pharmacologie Mol√©culaire et Cellulaire, CNRS UPR 411, Valbonne, 
France.

The effect of the centrally acting antihypertensive agent, rilmenidine, was 
examined on the contractile properties of isolated rat portal vein strips and on 
the free cytosolic [Ca2+] ([Ca2+]i) in isolated myocytes. Rilmenidine (1-30 
microM) relaxed strips precontracted with noradrenaline. This effect was not 
inhibited by the alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist, yohimbine, and was not mimicked 
by the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, 
5-bromo-N-(4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazol-2-yl)-6-quinoxalinamine (UK 14,304). 
Rilmenidine dose dependently shifted to the right the concentration-response 
curves to noradrenaline and to phenylephrine but not that to carbachol. 
Rilmenidine alone (0.1-30 microM) caused a contraction which maximally 
corresponded to 18% of the maximal noradrenaline-induced contraction. This 
effect was not produced by UK 14,304, was not affected by yohimbine, but was 
inhibited by the alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist, prazosin. In isolated myocytes, 
rilmenidine reduced the noradrenaline-induced [Ca2+]i increase but alone, it 
produced a rise in [Ca2+]i, the peak amplitude of which averaged 15% of the 
noradrenaline-induced transient [Ca2+]i rise. It is concluded that rilmenidine 
acts as a partial agonist of alpha1-adrenoceptors of vascular smooth muscle, 
causing relaxation of vessels precontracted by full agonists of 
alpha1-adrenoceptors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(97)01490-8
PMID: 9543238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
