1. J Physiol Paris. 1998 Feb;92(1):25-30. doi: 10.1016/s0928-4257(98)80019-3.

Imidazoline receptors of the paraventricular nucleus on the pressor response 
induced by stimulation of the subfornical organ.

Saad WA(1), Camargo LA, Silveira JE, Saad R, Camargo GM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Dentistry, Paulista State University, 
UNESP, Brazil.

In the present experiments we investigated a possible involvement of imidazoline 
receptors of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus on the 
pressor effects of the angiotensin II (ANG II) injected into the subfornical 
organ (SFO), in male Holtzman rats (250-300 g) with a cannula implanted into the 
third ventricle (3rdV), PVN and SFO. At first we tested the participation of 
alpha 2 and imidazoline agonist and antagonist compounds on the pressor effect 
of ANG II injected into the 3rdV. Based on the results we may conclude that 
clonidine associated with rilmenidine was able to block the hypertensive 
response to ANG II. The ANG II (20 pmol) injected into SFO induced a robust 
increase in blood pressure (37 +/- 2 mmHg). Isotonic saline (0.15 M) NaCl did 
not produce any change in blood pressure (5 +/- 2 mmHg). The injection of 
rilmenidine (30 micrograms/kg/1 microL), an imidazoline agonist agent injected 
into PVN before ANG II injection into SFO, blocked the pressor effect of ANG II 
(5 +/- 2 mmHg). Also, the injection of idazoxan (60 micrograms/kg/microL) before 
rilmenidine blocked the inhibitory effect of rilmenidine on blood pressure (39 
+/- 4 mmHg). The injection of clonidine (20 nmol/microL) prior to ANG II into 
the 3rdV produced a decreased in arterial blood pressure (37 +/- 2 mmHg) to (15 
+/- 4 mmHg). The injection of yohimbine (80 nmol/microL) prior to clonidine 
blocked the effect of clonidine on the effect of ANG II (27 +/- 2 mmHg). The 
injection of rilmenidine prior to ANG II also induced a decrease in arterial 
blood pressure (10 +/- 3 mmHg). The injection of idazoxan prior to rilmenidine 
also blocked the inhibitory effect of rilmenidine (24 +/- 3 mmHg). In summary, 
the present study demonstrated that rilmenidine decreases the hypertensive 
effect of ANG II, with more potency than clonidine, even when injected into 3rdV 
or PVN. This study established that the PVN interacts with SFO by imidazoline 
receptors in order to control the arterial blood pressure.

DOI: 10.1016/s0928-4257(98)80019-3
PMID: 9638593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
