1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1998 Jun;357(6):682-91. doi: 
10.1007/pl00005225.

Effects of imidazoline derivatives on cholinergic motility in guinea-pig ileum: 
involvement of presynaptic alpha2-adrenoceptors or imidazoline receptors?

Colucci R(1), Blandizzi C, Carignani D, Placanica G, Lazzeri G, Del Tacca M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University of Pisa, Italy.

The present study investigates the possibility that imidazoline receptors 
mediate modulation of cholinergic motor functions of the guinea-pig ileum. For 
this purpose, the effects of a series of compounds with known affinity for 
alpha2-adrenoceptors and/or imidazoline recognition sites were examined on the 
cholinergic twitch contractions evoked by electrical field stimulation (0.1 Hz) 
of longitudinal muscle-myenteric plexus preparations. Additional experiments 
were carried out on ileal strips preincubated with [3H]choline, superfused with 
physiological salt solution containing hemicholinium-3, and subjected to 
electrical field stimulation (1 Hz). The stimulation-induced outflow of 
radioactivity was taken as an index of endogenous acetylcholine release. 
Alpha-methyl-noradrenaline, noradrenaline, clonidine, medetomidine, 
oxymetazoline and xylazine caused a concentration-dependent inhibition of twitch 
responses (IC50 from 0.13 to 1.05 microM; Emax from 85.9 to 92.5%). Rilmenidine 
and agmatine were less potent in reducing the twitch activity, and the latter 
compound acted also with low intrinsic activity (IC50=44.9 microM; Emax=35.5%). 
In interaction experiments, the inhibitory action of clonidine on twitch 
responses was competitively antagonized by RX 821002 
(2-(2-methoxy-1,4-benzodioxan-2-yl)-2-imidazoline), idazoxan, rauwolscine, 
yohimbine and BRL 44408 (2-[2H-(1-methyl-1,3-dihydroisoindole)-methyl] 
-4,5-dihydroimidazoline), whereas prazosin (10 microM), ARC 239 
(2-(2,4-(O-methoxy-phenyl)-piperazin-1-yl)-ethyl-4,4-dimethyl- 
1,3-(2H,4H)-isoquinolindione; 10 microM) and BRL 41992 
(1,2-dimethyl-2,3,9,13b-tetrahydro-1H-dibenzo[c,f]imidazol[1,5-a]a zepine; 10 
microM) were without effect. Rauwolscine antagonized the inhibitory effects of 
various agonists on ileal twitch activity in a competitive manner and with 
similar potency. Agmatine and idazoxan did not significantly modify the twitch 
contractions when tested in the presence of alpha2-adrenoceptor blockade by 
rauwolscine (3 microM) or RX 821002 (1 microM). Linear regression analysis 
showed that the affinity values of antagonists correlated with their affinity at 
the alpha2A and alpha2D binding sites as well as at previously classified 
alpha2A/D adrenoceptor subtypes, whereas no significant correlation was obtained 
when comparing the potency estimates of agonists and antagonists with the 
affinity at I1 or I2 binding sites. When tested on the electrically induced 
outflow of tritium, alpha-methyl-noradrenaline, noradrenaline, clonidine, 
medetomidine, oxymetazoline, xylazine and rilmenidine yielded inhibitory 
concentration-response curves which were shifted rightward to a similar extent 
in the presence of rauwolscine (3 microM). In the absence of further drugs, 
agmatine significantly reduced the evoked tritium outflow at the highest 
concentrations tested (10 and 100 microM), whereas idazoxan (up to 100 microM) 
was without effect. When RX 821002 (1 microM) was added to the superfusion 
medium, neither agmatine nor idazoxan modified the evoked outflow of 
radioactivity. The results argue against modulation by imidazoline receptors of 
acetylcholine release from myenteric plexus nerve terminals. They provide 
evidence that compounds endowed with imidazoline-like structures affect the 
cholinergic motor activity of the guinea-pig ileum by interacting with 
presynaptic alpha2-adrenoceptors belonging to the alpha2D subtype.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00005225
PMID: 9686946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
