1. Curr Med Res Opin. 1998;14(2):89-96. doi: 10.1185/03007999809113347.

Effect of N-dicyclopropylmethyl-amino-2-oxazoline (S-3341) on antioxidant status 
and nitric oxide in hypertensive patients.

Sözmen B(1), Kazaz C, Taşkiran D, Tüzün S, Sözmen EY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Atatürk State Hospital, Izmir, Turkey. 
sozmen@bornova.ege.edu.tr

Defective endothelium-dependent vascular relaxation has been found in animal 
models of hypertension and in hypertensive patients. An imbalance due to reduced 
production of nitric oxide (NO) or increased production of free radicals, mainly 
the superoxide anion, may facilitate the development of an arterial functional 
spasm. Although it has been shown that many antihypertensive drugs can normalise 
both the antioxidant activity and NO, the antioxidant effect of 
N-dicyclopropylmethyl-amino-2-oxazoline (S-3341), an alpha-adrenoreceptor 
agonist, has not been investigated. In this study we investigated the 
antioxidant and NO status in hypertensive patients and whether there was any 
effect of S-3341 on these parameters. Eleven patients with mild hypertension 
(mean systolic blood pressure 159.5 +/- 2.5 mmHg) were administered S-3341 (1 
mg/day) for 4 weeks. Plasma vitamin E, nitrite-nitrate and MDA levels, and 
catalase activity, were measured both before and after treatment with S-3341. 
There was significant reduction in both mean systolic and diastolic blood 
pressure during the treatment. We found an increase in catalase activity (p < 
0.05), a decrease in malondialdehyde (MDA) levels (p < 0.01) and an 
insignificant increase in vitamin E levels in hypertensive patients following 
the S-3341 treatment. We propose that S-3341 may prevent oxidant stress in 
hypertensive patients by inhibiting free-radical formation.

DOI: 10.1185/03007999809113347
PMID: 9704198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
