1. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1998 Sep;32(3):382-9. doi: 
10.1097/00005344-199809000-00008.

Ethanol selectively counteracts hypotension evoked by central I(1)-imidazoline 
but not alpha2-adrenergic receptor activation in spontaneously hypertensive 
rats.

El-Mas MM(1), Abdel-Rahman AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, East Carolina University, 
Greenville, North Carolina 27858, USA.

Previous studies from our laboratory showed that ethanol counteracts hypotensive 
responses to clonidine in spontaneously hypertensive rats. This study 
investigated whether this effect of ethanol involves interaction with central 
alpha2-adrenoceptors or I(1)-imidazoline receptors or both. The effects of 
ethanol (0.5 or 1 g/kg, i.v.) or an equal volume of saline on hypotensive and 
bradycardic responses to clonidine (mixed alpha2-adrenoceptor/I(1)-imidazoline 
receptor agonist), rilmenidine (selective I(1)-imidazoline receptor agonist), or 
alpha-methylnorepinephrine (selective alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist) were studied 
in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats. Intracisternal administration of 
clonidine (0.5 microg), rilmenidine (25 microg), or alpha-methylnorepinephrine 
(4 microg) elicited similar decreases in mean arterial pressure (MAP; 25-30 mm 
Hg) that lasted > or =60 min. Subsequent administration of ethanol (0.5 and 1 
g/kg, i.v.) counteracted the hypotensive effect of clonidine in a dose-related 
manner. Ethanol (1 g/kg) increased the blood pressure to levels similar to 
baseline (preclonidine) levels, and blood pressure remained significantly (p < 
0.05) higher compared with the corresponding values in saline-treated rats. 
Similarly, ethanol (0.5 and 1 g/kg, i.v.) dose-dependently counteracted the 
hypotensive effect of rilmenidine. The antagonizing effects of ethanol on 
hypotension evoked by clonidine and rilmenidine were comparable in terms of both 
magnitude and duration. In contrast, ethanol (0.5 or 1 g/kg) had no effect on 
hypotension evoked by alpha-methylnorepinephrine. Except for a brief increase in 
blood pressure by ethanol (1 g/kg) at 5 min, blood pressure values obtained in 
alpha-methylnorepinephrine-treated rats receiving any of the two doses of 
ethanol were similar to postsaline values. Ethanol had no effect on bradycardic 
responses to any of the three hypotensive agents. Blood ethanol concentrations 
were similar regardless of the antihypertensive drug used. We concluded that the 
adverse hemodynamic effect of ethanol on centrally mediated hypotensive 
responses depends on the types of receptors involved in the elicitation of this 
response. That ethanol counteracts decreases in blood pressure evoked by 
clonidine and rilmenidine but not by alpha-methylnorepinephrine suggests an 
interaction between ethanol and central pathways involved in I(1)-imidazoline 
receptor-mediated hypotension.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-199809000-00008
PMID: 9733351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
