1. Ann Dermatol Venereol. 1997;124(10):687-91.

[Rilmenidine in rosacea: a double-blind study versus placebo].

[Article in French]

Grosshans E(1), Michel C, Arcade B, Cribier B.

Author information:
(1)Clinique Dermatologique des HÃ´pitaux Universitaires de Strasbourg.

INTRODUCTION: The usual treatments of rosacea (cyclines and metronidazole) are 
mainly effective on reducing the number of papules and pustules. Clonidine only 
was employed in order to treat flushes observed in rosacea. Rilmenidine is a 
central hypotensive drug which acts more specifically than clonidine on 
imidazoline receptors and which has no sedative side effects. The purpose of 
this study was to evaluate the efficacy of rilmenidine 1 mg/d in the treatment 
of rosacea.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 41 patients suffering from typical rosacea were 
selected in this randomised double blind study rilmenidine versus placebo. The 
study comprised an 1-month observation period without treatment followed by 3 
months of treatment. The major assessment criteria was the proportion of 
responders at the end of the treatment period. Responders were defined as 
patients showing a decrease of more than 50 p. 100 in the count of papules and 
pustules. Minor criterias were the variation of the number of flushes, 
self-evaluated by the patient and the variation of the redness of the face, 
noted by the investigator on a scale from 0 to 5.
RESULTS: Fifteen patients treated by rilmenidine (R) and 19 patients receiving 
the placebo (P) were evaluated. The proportion of responders was 69.2 p. 100 in 
group R and 57.1 p. 100 in group P (p = 0.69). The variations of the number of 
papules and pustules and of the redness of the face were not significantly 
different in the two groups. The decrease in the number of flushes was higher in 
group R (around -13) than in group P (around -5), but the difference was not 
really significant (p = 0.076). Arterial pressure decreased in 3 patients in 
group R and in 2 patients in group P. Minor side effects were noted in a similar 
proportion of patients in the two groups.
DISCUSSION: Rilmenidine is not efficient in reducing the number of papules and 
pustules but could decrease the number of flushes. Nevertheless, many patients 
were lost for follow-up and because of a major placebo effect, the conclusions 
of this study are not strong enough. Another study including more patients and 
using evaluation criteria based on the vascular components of rosacea could 
perhaps confirm this hypothesis.

PMID: 9740864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
