1. J Hypertens Suppl. 1998 Aug;16(3):S55-62.

Regression of left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertensive patients after 1 year 
of treatment with rilmenidine: a double-blind, randomized, controlled (versus 
nifedipine) study.

Sadowski Z(1), Szwed H, Kuch-Wocial A, Kubasik A, Januszewicz W, 
Krupa-Wojciechowska B, Polak G, Stejfa M, Dvorak I, Balazovjech I, Dubai G, 
Simon K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ischemic Heart Disease, National Institute of Cardiology, 
Warsaw, Poland.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the effect of 1-year treatment with rilmenidine, an 
oxazoline compound that exerts its antihypertensive effects through binding to 
imidazoline receptors in the brainstem, on left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) 
secondary to essential, mild-to-moderate hypertension [supine diastolic blood 
pressure (DBP)95-115 mmHg].
METHODS: We performed a double-blind, randomized, controlled (versus 
slow-release nifedipine) trial. Adjustment of treatment took place every month 
(M) between inclusion (MO) and an evaluation after 6 months (M6), then during M9 
and after 1 year (M12) to achieve supine DBP values < or = 90 mmHg. Patients 
were dropped from our study if they had DBP> 95mmHg during two consecutive 
visits or DBP>115 mmHg on one occasion. The daily dosage of rilmenidine was 1 
mg, and could be increased to 2 mg/day. The daily dosage of slow-release 
nifedipine was started from the beginning at the maximum dosage of 40 mg/day, so 
that there was no true adjustment of treatment despite the allocation of 
patients to a different unit in the case of DBP> 95 mmHg. The primary criterion 
was the change in left ventricular mass index (LVMI, g/m2), assessed by 
echocardiography, between MO and M12 for patients who completed the trial.
RESULTS: After a 1-month placebo run-in period, 76 patients were selected and 73 
were included (35 treated with rilmenidine and 38 treated with nifedipine). 
Fifteen patients withdrew from the study and two completed the study with a 
major deviation from protocol, leaving 56 patients (24 treated with rilmenidine 
and 32 treated with nifedipine) for a per-protocol analysis. Baseline 
demographic characteristics and history of arterial hypertension for the 
rilmenidine and nifedipine groups were similar, for included patients and for 
those taken into account for the per-protocol analysis. Between MO and M12, DBP 
in members of the per-protocol population was adequately controlled for those in 
the rilmenidine group (102.7+/-4.6 versus 88.5+/-7.1 mmHg, respectively) and for 
those in the nifedipine group (102.7+/-5.1 versus 85.6+/-79 mmHg, respectively). 
During MO, LVMI of patients in the rilmenidine group (176.9+/-41.3 g/m2) was 
slightly higher than that of patients in the nifedipine group (172.6+/-35.1 
g/m2). During M12, LVMI was observed to have decreased both for patients in the 
rilmenidine group (to 154.8+/-40.2 g/m2, a decrease of 22.1+/-23.3 g/m2, P< 
0.001) and for those in the nifedipine group (to 145.6+/-36.4 g/m2, a decrease 
of 26.9+/-29.5 g/m2, P< 0.001) but the difference between these two groups was 
not significant (P= 0.5).
CONCLUSION: One-year treatment with a daily dosage of 1 or 2 mg rilmenidine 
achieves a significant reduction of left ventricular mass, which is not 
statistically different than that occurring with a daily dosage of 40 mg of 
slow-release nifedipine.

PMID: 9747912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
