1. J Hypertens Suppl. 1998 Aug;16(3):S45-9.

Rilmenidine normalizes fructose-induced insulin resistance and hypertension in 
rats.

Pénicaud L(1), Berthault MF, Morin J, Dubar M, Ktorza A, Ferre P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie, Plasticité Tissulaire et Metabolisme 
Energetique, UPRESA 5018-UPS CNRS, IFR Louis Bugnard, Toulouse, France.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine the effects of rilmenidine (an 
antihypertensive drug that lowers blood pressure by decreasing sympathetic 
outflow) in an animal model of hypertension associated with insulin resistance, 
i.e. rats fed on a high-fructose diet.
DESIGN: Wistar rats were fed for 4 weeks either on a standard diet (S group) or 
on a high-fructose diet (F group; 34.5% fructose). In half of the rats in the F 
group, rilmenidine (1 mg/kg per day) was added to the drinking water for the 
last 2 weeks of the diet (FR group).
RESULTS: Body weight gain was higher in the F than in the S rats (66+/-8g versus 
45+/-8g, P< 0.05), but was prevented by rilmenidine treatment (32+/-2g). 
Arterial systolic blood pressure was increased in F rats (162+/-2 versus 155+/-2 
mmHg, P< 0.05), rilmenidine reduced this value to normal (149+/-3 mmHg). Glucose 
tolerance, glucose turnover rate, and insulin secretion were not modified by the 
diet or by the drug. However, during a euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp, 
glucose utilization was lower (10+/-1 versus 14+/-1.5 mg/min per kg; P< 0.05) 
and hepatic glucose production higher (1+/-0.01 versus 0 mg/min per kg, P< 0.01) 
in F than in S rats. These changes in insulin action were totally abolished by 
rilmenidine.
CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate that rilmenidine can ameliorate the 
deleterious effects of a high-fructose diet, i.e. weight gain, hypertension, and 
resistance to the effects of insulin.

PMID: 9747910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
