1. J Neurochem. 1998 Oct;71(4):1429-35. doi: 10.1046/j.1471-4159.1998.71041429.x.

Rilmenidine elevates cytosolic free calcium concentration in suspended cerebral 
astrocytes.

Ozog MA(1), Wilson JX, Dixon SJ, Cechetto DF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, University of 
Western Ontario, London, Canada.

Rilmenidine, a ligand for imidazoline and alpha2-adrenergic receptors, is 
neuroprotective following focal cerebral ischemia. We investigated the effects 
of rilmenidine on cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in rat astrocytes. 
Rilmenidine caused concentration-dependent elevation of [Ca2+]i, consisting of a 
transient increase (1-100 microM rilmenidine) or a transient increase followed 
by sustained elevation above basal levels (1-10 mM rilmenidine). A similar 
elevation in [Ca2+]i was induced by the imidazoline ligand cirazoline. The 
transient response to rilmenidine was observed in Ca2+-free medium, indicating 
that rilmenidine evokes release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores. However, the 
sustained elevation of Ca2+ was completely dependent on extracellular Ca2+, 
consistent with rilmenidine activating Ca2+ influx. Pretreatment with 
thapsigargin, an inhibitor of the endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase, abolished 
the response to rilmenidine, confirming the involvement of intracellular stores 
and suggesting that rilmenidine and thapsigargin activate a common Ca2+ influx 
pathway. The alpha2-adrenergic antagonist rauwolscine attenuated the increase in 
[Ca2+]i induced by clonidine (a selective alpha2 agonist), but not the response 
to rilmenidine. These results indicate that rilmenidine stimulates both Ca2+ 
release from intracellular stores and Ca2+ influx by a mechanism independent of 
alpha2-adrenergic receptors. In vivo, rilmenidine may enhance uptake of Ca2+ 
from the extracellular fluid by astrocytes, a process that may contribute to the 
neuroprotective effects of this agent.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1471-4159.1998.71041429.x
PMID: 9751174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
