1. Br J Pharmacol. 1998 Sep;125(1):127-35. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0702016.

Rilmenidine reveals differences in the pharmacological characteristics of 
prejunctional alpha2-adrenoceptors in the guinea-pig, rat and pig.

Ali A(1), Cheng HY, Ting KN, Wilson VG.

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences, The Medical School, Queen's Medical Centre, 
Nottingham.

1. The alpha2A and alpha2D-adrenoceptor subtypes are thought to be species 
homologs most easily differentiated on the basis of the potency of antagonists. 
In the present study we have compared the effect of rilmenidine with two other 
selective alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists, UK-14304 (5-bromo-6- 
[2-imidazolin-2-ylamino]-quinoxaline) and clonidine, against electrically-evoked 
contractions in five isolated preparations from the rat, guinea-pig and pig, 
and, where possible, determined the receptor subtype involved. 2. UK-14034, 
clonidine and rilmenidine produced concentration-dependent inhibition of the 
electrically-evoked contractions of the rat isolated vas deferens and tail 
artery and the guinea-pig ileum. These inhibitory effects were reversed by the 
selective alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist, RX-811058 (1 microM), except in the 
rat tail artery preparations where the remaining neurogenic response was 
inhibited; evidence for the involvement of 'innervated' alpha2-adrenoceptors. 
Both clonidine and UK-14304 produced concentration-dependent inhibition of 
responses in the porcine isolated tail artery and urinary bladder but clonidine 
was markedly less efficacious in these preparations. In contrast, rilmenidine 
failed to inhibit the neurogenic contractions in either preparation. 3. Although 
rilmenidine failed to elicit a detectable response in either the porcine 
isolated tail artery or urinary bladder, it (10 microM and 30 microM, 
respectively) competitively antagonised the inhibitory effects of UK-14304 with 
an estimated dissociation constant of (pK(B)) 5.82 and 5.93, respectively. 4. 
Prazosin (1 microM) failed to alter the effect of UK-14304 against neurogenic 
contractions in the porcine isolated urinary bladder, while rauwolscine (pK(B) 
8.87) was 10 fold more potent than phentolamine (pK(B) 7.56). On the other hand, 
phentolamine (pK(B) 8.42) was only marginally more potent than rauwolscine (pK 
8.05) against clonidine-induced inhibition of electrically-evoked contractions 
of the guinea-pig isolated ileum. This pharmacological evidence with antagonists 
supports the presence of alpha2D-adrenoceptors in the rat and guinea-pig and the 
alpha2A-adrenoceptors in the pig. 5. We have demonstrated that rilmenidine, 
unlike clonidine and UK-14304, is devoid of any agonist activity at 
prejunctional alpha2A-adrenoceptors in the pig, but is an efficacious agonist at 
alpha2D-adrenoceptors in the rat and guinea-pig.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0702016
PMCID: PMC1565583
PMID: 9776352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
