1. J Auton Nerv Syst. 1998 Oct 15;72(2-3):177-86. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-1838(98)00103-9.

Effect of rilmenidine on the cadiovascular responses to stress in the conscious 
rabbit.

Burke SL(1), Malpas SC, Head GA.

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Baker Medical Research Institute, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.

Environmental stress can cause an increase in sympathetic nerve activity both in 
humans and animals. While centrally acting antihypertensive drugs such as 
rilmenidine are known to reduce sympathetic tone, it is not clear whether they 
also influence the cardiovascular responses to acute stress. In the present 
study we examined the effects of systemic treatment with rilmenidine on the 
sympathetic and haemodynamic responses to air jet or noise stress. Twelve 
conscious rabbits previously implanted with a renal nerve recording electrode 
were subjected to an 8 l/min stream of air directed at their face for 10 min or 
exposure to 10 min of white noise (approximately 85 dB). Both air jet and noise 
stress elicited increases in renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA) which were 
greatest in the first minute (+55+/-9% and +40+/-6%, respectively), but which 
quickly reached a stable level over the subsequent 9 min (+24+/-6% and +9+/-5%, 
respectively). This was accompanied by a small increase in heart rate (HR) and 
mean arterial pressure (MAP). Intravenous rilmenidine (273 microg/kg) reduced 
MAP from 85+/-3 mm Hg to 68+/-2 mm Hg and HR from 203+/-10 b/min to 188+/-10 
b/min and lowered basal RSNA by 54%. Rilmenidine reduced the increase in RSNA 
seen during the first minute of air jet stress by 35% and reduced the average 
increase over the next 9 min by 68%. However, rilmenidine had little effect on 
either the initial or stable RSNA responses to noise stress. Saline treatment 
did not alter the RSNA responses to either air jet or noise stress. The results 
show that centrally-acting antihypertensive agents not only lower basal RSNA, 
but can differentially influence environmentally induced sympathetic responses. 
In addition, the differential effect of rilmenidine on noise and air jet stress 
suggests that they may involve quite different central processing.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-1838(98)00103-9
PMID: 9851567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
