1. J Auton Nerv Syst. 1998 Oct 15;72(2-3):129-36. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-1838(98)00097-6.

Pharmacology and subcellular distribution of [3H]rilmenidine binding sites in 
rat brain.

Hosseini AR(1), Jackman GP, King PR, Louis WJ, Gundlach AL.

Author information:
(1)The University of Melbourne, Department of Medicine, Austin and Repatriation 
Medical Centre, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia.

We have previously reported that in rat brain membranes, [3H]rilmenidine, in 
addition to labelling alpha2-adrenoceptors and the I2B-subtype of imidazoline 
receptor binding site (I2B-RBS), may label an additional I-RBS population, 
distinct from previously classified I1-RBS and I2-RBS. In this study, using 
crude or fractionated rat brain membranes we examined the possible association 
of [3H]rilmenidine-labelled I-RBS with the A- and B-isoforms of monoamine 
oxidase (MAO) by studying the inhibition of [3H]rilmenidine binding by a number 
of MAO inhibitors; and comparing the maximal binding density (Bmax) and 
subcellular distribution of [3H]rilmenidine binding sites with that of MAO-A and 
MAO-B catalytic sites labelled by [3H]RO41-1049 and [3H]RO19-6327 and 12-RBS 
labelled by [3H]2-BFI. Inhibition of [3H]rilmenidine binding by all MAO 
inhibitors tested produced very shallow curves (slope 0.29-0.56). Clorgyline and 
moclobemide (selective MAO-A inhibitors) displayed moderate affinities (60-140 
nM), while pargyline (non-selective MAO-inhibitor), RO41-1049 (selective MAO-A 
inhibitor) and RO19-6327 (selective MAO-B inhibitor) exhibited very low 
affinities (> 2 microM) for 50-75% of [3H]rilmenidine-labelled I-RBS in crude 
brain membranes and even lower affinity for the remaining binding. Under 
identical buffer conditions, the Bmax of [3H]rilmenidine-labelled I-RBS 
(1.45+/-0.14 pmol/mg protein) was considerably lower than those of MAO-A 
(13.10+/-0.15 pmol/mg) and MAO-B (10.35+/-0.50 pmol/mg) sites. These results 
suggest that [3H]rilmenidine does not interact directly with the active 
catalytic site of either MAO enzyme and could at best only associate with a 
subpopulation of MAO molecules. Binding studies on five fractions of rat cortex 
homogenates-nuclear (N), heavy (M) and light (L) mitochondrial, microsomal 
non-mitochondrial (P), and soluble cytosolic (S) fractions-revealed that 45% of 
total [3H]rilmenidine binding was present in the P fraction cf. 20 and 23% in 
the M and L fractions, in contrast to [3H]RO19-6327 and [3H]2-BFI which bound 
11-13% in the P fraction and 36-38% and 35-44% in the M and L fractions, 
respectively. Binding of all ligands in the N fraction was 6-15% of total. These 
studies reveal that [3H]rilmenidine-labelled I-RBS, unlike the I2-RBS, are not 
predominantly associated with mitochondrial fractions containing the MAO enzymes 
(and cytochrome oxidase activity), but appear to be distributed in both the 
mitochondrial and plasma membrane fractions in rat cerebral cortex.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-1838(98)00097-6
PMID: 9851561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
