1. J Auton Nerv Syst. 1998 Oct 15;72(2-3):187-94. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-1838(98)00104-0.

Interaction of the dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole with sympathetic 
vasomotor tone and the central action of rilmenidine in conscious rabbits.

van den Buuse M(1), Tritton SB, Burke SL, Head GA.

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Baker Medical Research Institute, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia. maarten.vandenbuuse@baker.edu.au

Previous studies in conscious rats have shown that systemic administration of 
the dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole causes a centrally-mediated increase 
in blood pressure which is associated with increased plasma levels of 
noradrenaline and adrenaline. In addition, treatment with quinpirole caused a 
marked inhibition of the antihypertensive effect of centrally-acting 
sympatho-inhibitory drugs such as clonidine, rilmenidine and alpha-methyldopa, 
suggesting an interaction at the level of sympathetic vasomotor tone. The main 
aim of the present study was investigate in conscious rabbits the effect of 
quinpirole on renal sympathetic nerve activity. In addition, we studied the 
effect of pretreatment with quinpirole on responses to additional quinpirole 
injections or rilmenidine treatment. Quinpirole treatment caused a prolonged 
dose-dependent increase in blood pressure and heart rate. Additional injection 
of quinpirole, 30 min after the first treatment, caused a significantly smaller 
pressor response (7+/-2 vs. 17+/-2 mm Hg). Injection of rilmenidine caused a 
larger decrease in blood pressure in rabbits which had been pretreated with 
quinpirole than in controls (-28+/-3 vs. -14+/-3 mm Hg). Total renal sympathetic 
nerve activity was markedly increased by quinpirole treatment (3.5-fold), an 
effect which could be attributed to both increased amplitude and increased 
frequency of the renal nerve signal. After a second injection of quinpirole, 30 
min after the first treatment, only total renal sympathetic nerve activity and 
amplitude were increased and the effects were reduced. These results show marked 
actions of quinpirole on renal sympathetic nerve activity in conscious rabbits. 
However, the previously described apparent desensitisation to the 
antihypertensive effect of rilmenidine could not be observed in rabbits, 
suggesting marked species differences in the mechanism and site of action of 
rilmenidine.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-1838(98)00104-0
PMID: 9851568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
