1. Presse Med. 1999 Jan 9;28(1):11-6.

[Essential arterial hypertension treated with rilmenidin : what dose for what 
patient?].

[Article in French]

Amah G(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine interne, Hôpital Broussais, Paris.

OBJECTIVE: To study the therapeutic interest of dose adaptation from 1 mg to 2 
mg daily when treating essential hypertension with rilmenidine in monotherapy, 
in terms of normalisation of blood pressure, of clinical tolerance and of 
laboratory parameters.
METHODS: In a non-comparative multicentre study conducted in France in patients 
with essential hypertension, rilmenidine was started at 1 mg daily. When the 
target blood pressure was not achieved (supine diastolic blood pressure (DBP) < 
or = 90 mm Hg) after 6 weeks, the dose was adapted to 2 mg daily. For persistent 
non-responders, a second antihypertensive was added from 3 months and a third 
from 6 months as necessary. Total follow up was for 12 months.
RESULTS: Eighteen thousand two hundred and thirty five (18,235) patients of 
either sex, average age 61.2 years and 90 mm Hg < supine DBP < 115 mm Hg were 
included. Sixteen thousand four hundred and ninety six (16,496) patients were 
followed for 12 months with complete data being available for 15,963 of them., 
13,565 (84.9%) were treated with rilmenidine in monotherapy, 9,626 (60.3%) at 1 
mg daily, and 3,939 (24.6%) at 2 mg daily. For patients who were treated with 
rilmenidine 1 mg daily throughout the study, mean reduction of blood pressure 
between D0 and M12 was -27.5/-18.9 mm Hg. Mean reduction was -30.0/-20.3 mm Hg 
for those who completed the study on 2 mg per day. 82.8% of the analysed 
population were normalised with rilmenidine in monotherapy, 59.1% with 1 mg 
daily. Dose adaptation to 2 mg normalised an additional 23.7% of patients. 
Rilmenidine monotherapy was associated with good clinical and laboratory 
acceptability.
CONCLUSION: The step-wise adaptation of rilmenidine dose in the treatment of 
essential hypertension is justified by the superior normalisation rate achieved 
by increasing the dose from 1 mg to 2 mg daily. This adaptation neither 
increases side effects nor changes laboratory parameters. These data support 
dose adaptation of rilmenidine monotherapy before association with another 
antihypertensive. However, neither ther blood pressure level nor associated risk 
factors predict the type of patients who will be normalised by 1 mg daily or 
those who require 2 mg. The practice of always starting rilmenidine at 1 mg 
daily in essential hypertension is therefore supported.

PMID: 9951504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
